This class is really worth taking in the midst of a major political overhaul, namely around election time. Otherwise, it might seem a little bit bland.
It's easy but also enjoyable and educational.
It's a typical intro class, with all the flaws and benefits you would expect. Take it if you're not sure how interested you might be in American politics.
Prepare for section, because the more you prepare the more you will get out of it.
The readings will greatly help you understand key course concepts.
n/a
great overview of/intro to american government
Lots of reading, exams are easy, one paper
Good introduction to government if you haven't taken a gov course before
It is not extremely difficult and a rewarding experience.
It's a painless course and you will undoubtedly learn a lot about our government system. it is particularly relevant during this time as well. just do it. you'll leave a smarter person.
This is a good course to take if you know nothing about American government.  Don't take it if you have had any significant government course work.
Section not helpful, outside readings very good
Prepare for section by reading the response papers from that week. the more you are prepared for section, the more rewarding and interesting it will be.
Very interesting as well as informing and always good to have a review of American government.
Simple, easy, to the point. Clear focus. Good textbook. Interesting topics.
This course is a fairly bland, broad overview of American government. If you've already taken an American government class in high school, 80-90% of the material will be review. So, if you're concentrating or interested in Gov, it's a low workload, fairly easy class. But if you're looking for something a bit more probing or stimulating in the field of American government, it is probably better to look elsewhere.
This course really gives you wonderful insight into how and why the United States government works and what problems exist in this imperfect system. The workload isn't too bad and watching the lecture videos before class really does help with remembering the material.
Watch lecture videos and you will be fine. Lectures should not repeat what the videos say, but sadly, they do. Try to get Chris as your section TF, he is wonderful.
If you are looking to develop a greater understanding of the American Government, this class is the perfect course for you. If you are simply looking to become a more informed citizen, this class is perfect for you. This class looks at American Government in a way that many other American Government courses do not, which is refreshing. You will definitely exit this course an informed citizen better able to understand the politics of today.
the videos are tedious to watch and remember everything for the quiz the next day
Great introductory course. The teaching staff is wonderful and makes you want to continuing leaning about the topics.
The class is pretty easy if you watch the lectures, and you learn quite a bit about America: past and present.
If you just take the 45 minutes to watch the course videos, you will be set for this class. Very light workload, very easy if you've ever taken any kind of American government course. The professor is a fantastic guy and the whole course is just a nice gut course to have on your schedule.
This is a great introduction to american government and a good way to experience what government classes at Harvard are like after school. The class covers everything you would want to know from the Founding Fathers to contemporary issues that are still being debated and I would highly recommend it.
The structure is great
material is a bit repetitive
Gov 30 was a great class. Take it if you are looking for a class with low weekly commitment.
I would say that it is good for learning about American government, but a lot of time is wasted.
This course is a really great course to develop foundational understanding of American government.
You won't have to do a ton of work, but you'll learn a lot and can get a great grade if you pay attention to the lecture videos.
Take it. Especially if you're looking for an easy to way to fulfill a gen-ed. 
This class is incredibly easy, and it's precisely because it's so easy that I felt I actually learned a lot. 
You have to work and keep up, but the absence of the stress of having to excel makes the learning process quite fun indeed. Do yourself a favor.
This course seems like AP US history, but with an emphasis on judicial decisions. It was interesting to take during an year with elections. Unfortunately, Peterson pretty much repeats himself in lecture - you're required to watch a set of videos before each lecture (about 30-45 minutes).  Still, the reiteration of the material makes it easy to remember, so you won't feel lost as long as you're attending lecture.  Section is very chill and does a good job of clarifying important points. The exams were pretty straight forward, but make sure to memorize all relevant court cases. The essay questions are fairly open-ended, so as long as you can base your hypothesis with cases, you shouldn't have to worry.
Watch the videos and you'll crush the class.
Exactly what a Gen Ed should be: Learn a lot and stress a little. USW was the gen ed I was dreading to take, but this class was painless, interesting and informative. It is the ideal class for someone looking to brush up on their knowledge of American history, government and law. It felt good to fill the void of ignorance on some of the basic facts of American politics. The class takes you through the major Supreme court cases that have shaped America since its founding, and familiarizes you with the basics of tax and social policy, economic policy, foreign and defense policy, congressional decision making, interest groups, public opinion, civil liberties and rights, the modern court system, and, most importantly, our Constitution. I learned many new yet fundamental concepts each week. I honestly think everyone should take this class (or a class like it). No matter what field you're going to be a leader in, it is important to know the principals upon which our country stands and runs. And like I said, the work outside of class is minimal. You watch lecture videos and write one paper (maybe two next year, but that's it). Highly recommended.
Peterson is adorable. He is passionate about the material and is a good lecturer. Definitely take this class if you're a Gov concentrator--it will be well worth your time. You cover a lot of material ranging from the ideology of the Founding Fathers to debating policy solutions for how to fix medicare. If you're not a Gov concentrator and are looking for an easy and relatively painless elective, this is a class well worth your time.
It is a very dry class that will require a lot of work outside the classroom in order to completely understand the material, but it provides great insight into American politics and the structure of the American government.
The lecture videos Mr. Peterson puts up help a whole lot, but in person his lectures can be a bit repetitive.
Good solid course.
do your work and you'll get a good grade
This is a great class to learn the foundations of American government and politics. It builds off American history and ties it to current events (for example we wrote a paper about the Senate election that was going on at the time). I felt like this class was a great introduction to the Government department and was really interesting while not being too overwhelming and stressful. Make sure to watch the lecture videos before class (there are quizzes each class, but they are not difficult if you watched the video) and you will learn even more if you do the readings as well! Overall I really recommend this class.
It is a very early course. Section and lecture are very helpful in understanding the material. Also, the videos are key to studying for the midterm and exams.
This is a great, easy class. You basically watch the lectures online before class, then come in and discuss the topics. Highly recommend!
I would say keep up with the lecture videos each night because you are quizzed almost everyday at the beginning of class.
Easy, straightforward course. Doesn't require a lot of time.
If you're looking for an interesting gov course that isn't too hard, I definitely recommend this class. Great way to learn more about the American political system, but you won't learn too much if you know a lot already. The class focuses a lot on Supreme Court cases, so consider it if that interests you.
A good intro class and transition to college gov classes because most first semester freshmen have taken American history or gov in high school and will be easy to pick up on the course content
Good introduction to American government, not very engaging
There were quizzes before every lecture (twice a week) and although they were a pain, they were not that bad and forced you to atleast watch the videos.
Course is very interesting, other than daily reading quizzes, not much work is necessary.
Super manageable course and a good overview of American government. One midterm, one term paper, and a final. Relevant and applicable material which is always refreshing.
Very detailed and interesting class on American government
Gives a good overview of American politics.
Okay there is literally no single bigger waste of time than having the videos online and then a quiz on the video in lecture...and then a lecture that is a repetition of the video I watched the night before and just had a quiz on. It was almost kind of insulting. And I think the reason he set the class up that way was so that people would come prepared and we could have a discussion in lecture, but what ended up happening was people would take the quiz and get those points then BOUNCE. Then the same 4 people would participate, and everyone else would sleep. So dumb.I didn't do AP Gov in high school or any kind of gov in high school, and my knowledge of the government was pretty basic (3 branches, elections happen, how to pass a bill). After taking this class....that's still pretty much it. We rush through so much I don't remember anything. Still pretty easy though but so boring I would take ANY other US and the World gen ed course.
Great class, only draw back is quizzes every section, which forces you to read and gets you prepared for the midterm and final, but it also causes a great deal of stress
It's easy if you've done AP gov. It's more interesting if you're an international student.
This course is fairly boring if you have taken any US classes before, but is easy for the exact same reason.  It's a low-effort way to fulfill a requirement.
If you are wondering how to fulfill your concentration requirement with an American politics class, TAKE IT! Also, if you want a doable gen ed class, TAKE IT! Also, if you are an international student and are willing to find out more about American politics, TAKE IT! It's super rewarding given that I had barely any knowledge about American government. A lot of people might tell you that it's ridiculously easy but if you barely have a background in this topic, you are likely to find it challenging!
informs you effectively about american government
There are very many long readings assigned, however there are also lecture videos that Professor Peterson provides that cover most of the information to learn from the readings.  This class is very manageable.
Not difficult for students knowledgable of U.S. government, but great for those looking to learn.
This is a great course for freshmen to take. Most people have probably been exposed to some of the ideas of this course in high school, and this course allows for these ideas to be expounded upon and related to government as a whole.
This is a basic introductory American government class. Every class you'll have a little quiz on the videos/readings assigned for that lecture so you really have to be on top of all the material at all times. But it makes studying for the midterm and final a lot easier because you'll find that you already know much of the material. There is one term paper, but it is not that long and is fairly graded by the TFs. Take this class for a good, simple government course!
It's a good class and not very time consuming. The quizzes at the beginning of each lecture were perhaps the downside to the course, but worth it.
It is worthwhile.
I'd recommend the course IF students are looking for a comprehensive set of knowledge of American government - that is, the basic ideas of many of its aspects. The course, which seeks to provide a wide overview of basic ideas rather than focusing on one aspect of government, does just that, and does it well (lots of good take away points).
Do not take this class.  this was one of the worst classes I have taken at harvard.  we had to do the chapter readings in the text book, then the professor went over the EXACT SAME material in a mandatory video that we had to watch for homework.  Then lectures were a chance for the professor to repeat the same material in the video.  It was the most pointless class I have ever taken and I am horrified that it was offered to Harvard students.
It is a good class to learn some of the basics of our government
The class is easy, but it's not worth the hoops you need to jump through. Lectures are required and incredibly dull, because all the information was already given in the required video lectures before each class. I felt like I was being treated like a highschool student the entire time, which was very frustrating at times.
This class is a great way to satisfy your US and the World gen-ed. The work is manageable. The lectures can be a bit of a drag since you see everything in the videos.
Take it, it's not difficult and you learn a lot!
great class
When doing the reading for the week, prioritize the videos.
All you need to do for the class is watch the lecture videos because there is a quiz almost every day. They're easy if you've watched the videos. All that lecture is, is a big group discussion that only 15 people at most participate in. Section is pretty boring and pointless since everything was already discussed in lecture. If that is the kind of thing your looking for, than this class is great. Boring. If you can't handle being bored, do not take this class. Don't do it.
This class was good. It covers a huge range of topics, pretty much all aspects of American government but doesn't go too in depth on any of them, so it's a good introduction. Written assignments are manageable. Lecture videos are watched at home and then class is more of a discussion than a lecture.
its pretty easy, not too much work. Sections are really helpful. If you want to get an overview of american politics and how the American political system works you should definitely take this course. it's okay to skip lectures from time to time too. but do not miss sections.
Read the textbook and you will be able to get much more out of the lectures.
This class will get you interested in politics, if for some reason you aren't already.
This class is an easy introduction to American politics, but there were lots of weekly assignments in the first half of the semester.
If you're interested in American Government, take the course.  It's as simple as that.
I think the class is relatively easy, if you keep up with readings, pay attention in lecture and section, and study before the exams. There are no surprises in the class. Bernard is the best TF ever! Just do the work and try to stay with the readings and you'll really be fine. The response papers are a little tedious in the beginning of the semester, but it's doable and really easy.
You'll learn a lot about American politics and the political system, and you'll likely get a fairly balanced view of it.  You may not like all of the assignments, but most of them do help you learn more concretely about the subject matter.
This course is an easy introduction to American politics. Although lectures are boring, the readings are useful and the assignments and exams are very fair.
This course gives great insight into America's system of government and how it works and why things happen the way they do.  It is especially interesting because we get to apply what we learn to what is going on in the news.
If you want an easy gov class, this is the one.  Little previous knowledge of American government is necessary.
the readings don't matter. short papers throughout the semester do not require much work. fun class
Both professors were great and clearly extremely knowlegable about the subject matter. Particularly liked the concentration on elections and the currency of the discussions about politics.
This course is an introduction to American politics- and, thus, deals with issues that the traditional AP Gov class would have also covered. A few times, it requires independent trips into Boston/Cambridge to witness "the masterpiece" of our government at work.
This class is very interesting and it deepens your understanding of American government.
What seemed like the potential for a fantastic course simply fell apart when it came time for execution. The lectures were boring, particularly during Stephen Ansolabehere's portion of lectures. Professor Peterson tried his best by integrating slides and graphics. Teaching Fellow Joe Williams is entertaining and will some day make a great professor. The weekly sections can be a bit useless at times and the weekly essay assignments are nothing short of brutal. They are not particularly difficult, but prove to be a big nuisance! I originally took this course as a freshman after reading the Q scores, as you're doing now. I decided that while most students said that the course is boring, I should take it because they also say that it is easy. I completely regret that decision. It is only wasting my time when the material is not engaging to me. It is much more rewarding to take a class that will expand your mind and challenge you a bit.
I would take this if I really knew NOTHING about American Gov, but if you have a basic understanding, I would skip ahead to a more interesting course.
It's a great course where you'll learn quite a bit about American government.
Not very challenging but still interesting.
you will gain great understand abt american gov and politics
The workload isn't that difficult, but the material isn't that interesting, either.
If you are engaged by government and politics, this course is a must!!
I loved this class, and getting to take a class with Ansolabehere is an awesome way to get introduced to the Gov department and to meet a really awesome professor!
Take it seriously! You will learn a lot.
I would recommend this course because there is not much work involved, but it is not particularly interesting or compelling.
What you get out of this class is highly dependent on how much effort you put into the readings and how much you think about the subject. It is not a hard class, and it can reduce to a very superficial experience if you don't keep up with the work.
This is one of the worst classes I have taken at Harvard. The subject has enormous potential, but a combination of egregiously apathetic teaching staff and mono-toned professors make this class painful. The assignments are considerably longer than the average government class, but the material  is considerably easier. This combination makes the work tedious and uninspiring. Definitely would not recommend this class. The participatory nature of lectures is inefficient and really takes away from the classroom experience.
Good course, especially for people who know nothing about the government. A slightly hard gen ed, but good if you want to learn.
This is a class that gives you a decent overview of American politics. That said, it is very history-based, and the lectures are not particularly interesting.
This class interested me more when it got to the judicial branch's material. Otherwise, it was a bit dry, and the assignments and exams were much harder than I feel the course necessarily prepared you for.
This is a good intro to American government and politics.  If you've already taken AP Government, you probably don't need to take it, but it does give you the opportunity to take the fundamentals of American government and apply them to fundamental issues.
Dull lectures, interesting paper assignments.
This class has the potential to be so great. The subject matter truly is interesting, so I would recommend it those who have an interest in American government, although the lectures are disjointed. It would be greatly improved if Professor Peterson and Ansolabehere coordinated what they taught better and made the course a more comprehensive overview of American government. Section is great though. Take Rita's section if she's still a TF.
I was excited by the potential this class had to offer, but the course was ultimately not very well structured/organized, which lowered the quality of our interaction with the material. However, Ansolabehere is an engaging lecturer and my TF was excellent, so I think with a few improvements this course could be a great elective or way to fulfill a Gov requirement.
It's easy but wasn't run well when I took it. Easy, not challenging, you don't learn much.
The lectures are bland and tell you information that's basically common knowledge.  Also, the syllabus said two 4-6 page papers with a midterm and final and it ended up being a 10-15 and a 8-10.  Take Gov 20 and skip ahead to something more exciting instead of this.
I really enjoyed it and would recommend it as a class that maintains a current affairs aspect to it.
If you can pay attention during lectures, the course will solidify your knowledge about the American Government
While the papers are a little challenging, overall I would definitely recommend this course as an introductory class for government concentrators.
This is a great class for international students. As a Canadian, knowing nothing about American politics, I felt it was very informative, didn't require any previous knowledge and I took a lot away from the class. It isn't super difficult and I feel like I really learned something that is real life applicable. If you have already taken gov courses or are American, I know a lot of people fin it boring and redundant. if you are an international student definitely take it!!!
It's a fairly interesting class that won't be too much work. Some lectures seemed to lack direction.
This class is a great primer to American government, and covers a wide range of topics. The lectures aren't thrilling, but section is interesting and you definitely learn a lot if you haven't already taken similar courses.
This class will provide you with a basic level of understanding for American Politics, but if you are really knowledgable or want to be challenge, you may be disappointed in this course. In terms of difficulty, this is not Gov. 20.
If you took AP American Government, this course will seem very repetitive.
You will definitely learn the historical dynamics of American politics: why is it how it is today.
The lectures are not that interesting, so make sure to do the reading and prepare for class because not everything is covered during lecture.
if you're a math/science person, know a bit about politicks, and want to knock out a gen-ed easily, take this class.
the syllabus may say 2 lectures and 1 section a week, but they fail to mention that in the second half of the course you are required to watch online videos of a pre-recorded lecture before coming to most lectures...and then you just talk about those videos as a lecture. So it essentially becomes three sections a week. just a heads up. otherwise the course was straightforward. if you want to fine-tune your knowledge about the American government, this is the place to do it.
Its a pretty easy course, a good way to fulfill a requirement. But the lectures are seriously boring. Assignments aren't too bad, the paper topics are really interesting.
Gov 30 is a great class if you can keep up with the readings. The selections are very interesting, because you get the formal, factual structure of government and its functions in today's society, coupled with the philosophical background and origins of its conception.
Not necessary if you already know a lot about American government. The course basically goes over what was taught in AP Government.
You may be inclined to take this course if you are working toward a Government concentration and would like an easier spot in your schedule. However, I did not find this course engaging or challenging. If you are going to invest hours in attending lecture and section, I suggest you spend your time in a more fruitful way. On the bright side teaching staff are very friendly and accessible.
keep up with the reading materials. watch peterson's lectures--they disappear after the lecture date!
The material is extremely interesting, but the professors like to ramble on about tangential topics and skip important aspects of the reading. Rita was a great TF, and she was the reason I actually learned anything. The papers suck, plain and simple.
its good
Overall, this course is a pretty good introduction to American government for those who haven't studied it before. The material covered gives a comprehensive (though not in-depth) overview of all aspects of government and political science. However, the lectures are sometimes pretty dry and may be unorganized and unrelated to the readings. This might encourage you not to do the readings as much, which can be a major problem when exams and papers come around. If you do the readings, however, section is pretty interesting. Overall, it's a decent course for just being introduced to the study of government, but, in order to get something out of it, you really have to do the readings and teach yourself a lot of the material, because it won't be reviewed fully in lecture.
Very informative and helpful class that is easy to manage if the right amount of work is put in.
Good class, even if you think you know everything about american government, still take this class, new insights and good, knowledgeable profs
This course provides a nice introduction to American government and politics. However, it tends to be disorganized and it seems that the exams do not really measure knowledge of the course material. In addition, lectures do not always help understand the material. Overall, however, this is a nice class if you really want to learn about the American political system.
Not necessarily stimulating (even though the subject matter could be).
This class will provide a good overview of the major themes in American politics. Great for international students or Americans who want to get a solid grounding in American politics. It hasn't been my most interesting class, but I have found it very useful.If you are already familiar with US politics, e.g. look AP US Politics, then I wouldn't recommend this class. Take a Gov Class out of your comfort zone.
So long as you keep up with the reading, you will be successful in the class.
Take this if you have no understanding of American politics. If you do, then it's largely a review of the basics.
This class is a great class for becoming confident in your knowledge about American politics.
This class is very introductory and you do not need a lot of background in the American Government to take this. I also learned a lot of interesting things because I didn't have any background in it and it was very fun.
This is a great basic introduction to American government and politics.  If you took AP Government in high school, then it covers a lot of the same material.
Good course.  Gives you the fundamentals of US government.  Interesting assignments and helpful sections.
It's a good course if you haven't had rigorous preparation in US Government or if you had it long ago and would like to refresh your mind. If you're a politics savant or "hardcore" Gov concentrator, you may not want to waste your time with this course and move on to something more specific than an overview of all of US Politics.
A workaday government class. Do it for the requirement and nothing else.
The class is not very difficult, but the grading is very severe, making it hard to make a high grade.
You need to stay on top of the readings for this class, and the midterm was fairly intense (and graded strictly). The workload is manageable and you certainly learn a lot, if you haven't done American government before.
You must do it all for yourself because no one is going to meet you even half way.
Very interesting subject, great readings, good but uninspiring lectures.
Regardless of whether one takes this class as a core or for the concentration, the section TF's and Professor Peterson will make this class one of the most interesting and most manageable classes on campus.
if you like american politics you will like it.
This class is perfect for a beginner in the government concentration, but it also offers something for the more experienced.
Take it if you haven't done American Government before, but otherwise don't bother. Also this class , although it doesn't have much work, is not a free A. I would not recommend this as a GPA booster.
Lectures are very informative, so be prepared to listen carefully.
Section does a thorough job of explaining the week's lectures. If you take the class you are likely to learn a lot about US government in a short amount of time.
The course is interesting information, but most high school civics courses present about the same information. The lectures were disorganized, and as long as the readings are done, don't add anything to the course.
Professor Peterson's lectures are informative but extremely boring. You will fall asleep in class at least once.
If you like American government, you'll enjoy this class. Just be prepared to read from various sources on each issue. It's not just about the issue - it's about what political scientists have to say about the issue.
This course will challenge the way you think about politics and the American Government in general.
The material in this course is extremely interesting because it allows students to really connect with their society and examine the basic structure of our American government.
I highly recommend this course for anyone who wants to fulfill a requirement or wants a general informational course on American history.
Easy class, but you learn a lot. Lecture may be boring if you're not interested in the material, but for those who are, class is very enriching
This course, while relatively easy in terms of course load, is very strict in terms of grading. The grading on papers was especially severe. Nonetheless, the course is very helpful and useful to take.
Too much work is assigned for what is an introductory class, but what you learn from it is worth the effort.
I think the most important aspect of this class is simply time-management. The weekly assignments have a tendency to sneak up on you, so just make sure that you plan ahead for those.
If you want to learn how American government works, as well as some basic skills in taking and analyzing political data, this is a great case to do that.
This is a course that every informed college student should take, just to put themselves into perspective of American government and politics. Professor Ansolabehere may be slightly timid a professor, but he gives very effective lectures that are very informative. In addition, taking this course really changes your perspective of how politics work. This is very much a sneak peek at the world of politics from the inside.
You aren't allowed computers in lectures, be prepared for that.
My least favorite class at Harvard, poorly taught with terrible assignments.
Take this course the best intro government class offered.
Have you ever tried to use one of those knives that struggle to cut through even a block of warm butter? Yea, that's a pretty accurate metaphor for the dullness of this course. If you've taken a high school government class, there is no reason to even think about taking this course.
avoid this class. The syllabus is deceiving and you will learn more if you just buy the book and read it over the summer and take a two day course on how to use excel.
SUPER EASY. TAKE IT.
this class will not overwork you, but you will leave with a much greater understanding of the way our country works, how we choose our leaders, and the history of the evolution of our unique political system
Overall, this course is a wonderful introduction to American government and politics. The lectures can sometimes be dull, since the professor does not use slides, but he is a great lecturer with some interesting personal experiences in politics. There are two papers that require you to observe politics in action - don't be scared! These were relatively painfree. The only thing I would warn about is that the weekly section responses were sometimes really tedious and vague, and may take more time first appears. In the whole, though, this is a great class that is fairly easy and a good way to learn about government and (for me) fulfill a core/gen ed.
very interesting, slightly non traditional perspective on govthe class is partially quantitative (thank goodness) so makes the class not as fluffy/ivory tower academic/boring as other gov/humanity classes; if you're too much of an ass to learn to compute the median in excel (hint: look up the function called MEDIAN), just shut up and take something else
Lecturer is incredibly dull but the course is quite easy if u put a little bit of work in.
The course teaches you very little and all of the assignemnts are painful and have little to do with the course.
The professor and his lectures are outstanding
This class was more confusing than helpful. The unstructured assignments and readings just served as a nuisance, rather than a learning tool.
If you're looking for an incredibly easy core, take this.  If you're looking for a genuine educational experience, don't.
take good notes in lecture
This course is a great, painless way to learn about American government. Be prepared to learn research methods in addition to factual material. This is not only about acquiring a foundation of knowledge on U.S. politics; students must assume a new approach to rationalizing the way rules influence policymaking and shape the nation. If you are not a numbers person, assignments might be challenging. The professor is knowledgeable, approachable, and kind!
Doing the reading the week it's due, participating in section, and going to class will help you learn the material more than enough.
This class was pretty easy and did not require that much work a week, but the lectures were not the most interesting. If you're looking for an amazing professor, I would probably not take this course, but there was not much reading a week and for the final, we got to make up multiple choice and essay questions ourselves and use these as a study guide.
it's a little dry but has valuable information for a government concentrator
This class was decent but the weekly assignments were really annoying.
With some organization and improvement, the class would certainly be worth taking. The professor and most of the TFs are accessible and always willing to help. Lectures aren't particularly exciting, but the professor always tries to generate debate and encourage students to participate. He seems genuinely interested in their opinions. The workload isn't difficult, but the weekly excercises can quickly become annoying and confusing.
While I did learn a great deal about American Government structure, a lot of my time was wasted with statistical analysis assignments.
This course involves a lot of theory, be ready to have a lot of homework
i literally hated this class. i learned nothing. what a waste of time. i was thinking of concentrating in government before taking this class and then i realized the gov department at harvard is soulless. the weekly assignments were such a pain and the directions were always unclear. the 3 papers were frustrating as well not because they were intellectually challenging but because it was unclear what they wanted and they were graded so arbitrarily.this all probably comes off really scathing & harsh but i'm just being honest.
This class is amazing if you don't have much background in American government. The pace is reasonable, the assignments give great insight, and this class showed me the science aspect of political science. (I'm a science concentrator.)
You will understand Americans politics so much more clearly after taking this class -- things like the electorate.
The subject matter is really interesting, and Prof. A is a great lecturer. The only complaint I have about this course is that I found the grading to be rather arbitrary.
Take this class if you're interested in the theory and practice behind U.S. government. Even if you excelled in AP Government in high school, Gov 30 might be a good addition because it covers political theory, spatial models, etc. much more deeply. The workload is definitely manageable and the papers are helpful. Lectures are sometimes on the boring side but it helps to attend because you'll have a head start on discussion in section.
This class is full of extremely boring lectures that are totally unnecessary to attend to do well; it can be pretty much self-taught out of the textbook and section.
The idea of studying american government was quite exciting to me, but this class was set up so poorly that it was not a great experience overall
Interesting class. Not too hard. Includes a lot of introductory political science and analytical tools
The course focuses a lot on American politics.
Never, never, never take this class. It is just a HUGE WASTE of time. Short weekly assignments required using Excel and took 2-3 hours every week. Just a HUGE WASTE of time.
I would say that you will come out of this class with a much deeper understanding of the political institutions in America on all levels than you probably ever would have expected before.
This class is good if you want an easy, but boring course. I think there are much better American Government courses that I would rather have taken for my American Govt requirement, and the TFs aren't very good. I ended up feeling like I hadn't learned much that I didn't already know.
It's a really good class to take if you have genuine interest in American government because otherwise, lectures can feel somewhat dry and the readings are not necessarily exciting.
course tries very hard, and with some success, to make material interesting;
Great class which doesn't require too much work.
The course offers a lot of opportunity for growth. There are many resources (i.e. video lectures, readings, supplemental readings) so that if one is not as well-versed in government, one won't be lost. Yet, if one has familiarity, one can feel free to spend less time reviewing and instead pushing further with the supplemental readings. I'd highly recommend this class because it is comfortably paced and offers a broad, comprehensive view  workings of the US government.
Class was not difficult. Basic intro to gov class. Peterson is awesome, though.
This is a solid gen ed class. You don't have an unreasonable amount of work, and the topic itself is pretty interesting if you want to get a basic understanding of how the US government works.
Gov 30 is a great course if you are looking for a basic GenEd type course for an intro to government.  However, if you are looking for a challenging Government course and want to concentrate in government, look elsewhere.
THIS IS A GEM. Best GenEd I've taken at Harvard (maybe second to CB35: Classical Mythology taught by the demigod Andreas Thomas Zanker). Very little work outside class, but still learned a lot through the lecture videos. Make sure you go to lecture to take the quizzes. Rarely attended section. Went maybe once. Aaron is a chill TF. Will answer your questions and enjoys discussing deeper topics in section, which is useful because lecture only touches on the surface of the material. Would highly recommend. Was easier than AP Gov in high school and I went to PUBLIC high school.
This is a good low-time-commitment class to get your US and the World credit if you need it--you really only need to watch the videos and show up to lecture to take the quizzes. Professor Peterson is great, but unfortunately the near-verbatim repetition from the videos assigned for homework and the in-class lectures makes the course somewhat tedious. I did, however, learn a lot of the basics of the government and the workings of the U.S. infrastructure I hadn't known before, so that was helpful.
The course is very well-taught and the material is consistently interesting.  They do not waste your time with unnecessary work.  I would definitely recommend it.
The class is pretty easy. You DO NOT NEED the textbooks. Just watch the lecture videos and you will be fine for the in class quiz every class. (Don't worry about the quizzes - like I said watch the lecture videos and you will be fine and they throw your bottom two scores out anyway). The TF Chris is great but if you get Aaron switch ASAP. He grades 10Xs harder than all the other tfs and is not as clear in section. So depending on your tf this class could be very easy and a great gen ed or really difficult. Professor Peterson is super cute. Your homework each week will be to go home and watch lectures of him before each class which is more a discussion than a lecture. It's a cool format but the amount you get out of "lecture" is what you make of it.
I really enjoyed this course. Lectures were very interesting, and I thought the paper they assigned really stretched me and made me think. It was fun to write.
in the past years, this class was regarded very highly. this year, however, they changed the structure of the class making it more difficult. just be wary if you take this class the entire structure may change for the worse and you could get blind sided
This course is not too difficult and it's pretty interesting as it will make you a much better informed citizen, but do not expect it to be a revolutionary undergraduate Harvard course.
Try to engage in lecture so it isn't so boring.
Good class and very informative. Makes you a better citizen for sure. Gets a little tedious at times and assignments are unclear.
Great class. Every since Peterson started doing flipped classrooms, lectures are so much more interesting.
kind of tedious to watch lecture videos beforehand
While this course was interesting, the structure of the class was strange and my teaching fellow was atrocious.
Great course if you decide to be actively engaged in class!
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. Very very boring and dry. Videos are painful.
The reverse lecture format is awful. You can make it through this class without watching the videos if you just read the lecture slides before class. The TFs figured that out, though, and started publishing the lecture slides for a class after that class and the daily quiz on the material took place.
This is not a particularly good or engaging course but is a painless way to satisfy the United States in the World gen ed requirement. If you watch the videos and read the textbook, the in-class quizzes and exams will be very easy. Most of the content will be review if you took a decent AP Government class in high school.
This class is really useful and necessary for anyone thinking of going into politics. I came in not really knowing that much about the U.S. government -just the basics- and the details I learned really helped me feel like a more informed citizen and voter. I also love history and this course deals with a lot of historical court cases and the history of American democracy's development. I also really liked that there were pre-lecture videos -they made the class easy to follow and allowed the lectures to go more in-depth.
Great class if you are looking for a broad overview of American politics. Professor Peterson's videos are extremely helpful for a deep understanding of the material.
if you enjoy the material, take the class.  but if you're looking for a challenge, don't.
Pretty easy. Quite disorganized. I was under the impression that the Gov department had either enforced or explicit prerequisites, but that isn't actually the case. I think taking a mid-level course with more defined subject matter would probably be a better choice, especially since those courses aren't necessarily harder, but you would almost certainly get more out of it.
If you are an international student seeking to understand the history and political culture of America, take this class!
This class contains very straightforward material with a relatively good structure. However, the readings can sometimes be a little dry.
If you like debating take it
Make sure you watch the videos because there is a quiz each day.
This is a wonderful straightforward class without being boring. If you want to learn legal history (looking at law school hopefuls) this is an easy way to get a background for legal discussions. Given the election year, this complimented current events well and everyone seemed very passionate since its learning about our country. If you want to do this for USW, then DEFINITELY take it.
Gov 30 is a great course that isn't too difficult and does exactly what it aims to do: teach the basics of American government. The video lectures are one of the best parts about the course because they can fit into your own schedule. Sometimes lecture itself is a bit dry but if you participate in the discussion it can be very interesting.
great intro to U.S. gov. Can definitely learn real things. And yes, it is one of the more reasonable, "easy" classes.
Good class. Definitely an easy Gov course. At times it can be tough to keep up with the course videos and the daily class quizzes, but it is easy to get an A if you stay on top of them
Solid class.  You'll learn the basics about how our government operates, but you won't learn anything in a lot of detail.  Not a huge time commitment, but definitely watch the lecture videos before class.
great and easy class for a gen-ed!
This class was an easy and really fun introduction to American government. The course staff are very supportive and all generated enthusiasm for the material - without interjecting any personal political biases, which was very important to me. I thoroughly enjoyed this class and would highly recommend it to anyone who wants to learn more about how American government was designed, how it has developed over time, and how it functions today.
It's not the most engaging or innovative gov (or USW) class there is, but I learned a good amount. It's a pretty standard gen ed course  and a good intro to other US gov courses. Lectures are a tad boring, but I liked section. The textbook reading is heavy, but helpful. The supplementary readings are actually pretty interesting, but they're not essential for class. I liked the emphasis on the Supreme Court, since I'm interested in con law. Aaron & Chris, from my own experience & from what I've heard, are the great TFs.
This is a very well taught class with manageable workload and interesting material.
This course demonstrates everything that is wrong with the General Education system. It is painfully slow, does not promote engagement with the ideas beyond a very cursory regurgitation, and covers topics that are a review of high school US government. The attempt at "flipped classroom" results in requiring watching super long lecture videos before class, being quizzed on them every lecture to enforce attendance, then watching as the entire lecture is repeated again in person. The course is easy, but that's not a comfort when I could be taking something that actually encourages learning and/or engagement with course material. For a set of topics that is both fascinating academically and deeply important to our country's continued existence, this course is a disappointment.
Manageable and somewhat interesting course, but the lecture component is boring.
This is a class that has a lot of interesting information and if you watch the lectures you will do well. That being said, the actual lectures are a repetition of what you were told during the videos so it gets very repetitive.
Good course. Watching the same lecture online beforehand is a little tedious, but it helps solidify the information and the workload is 100% manageable.
This class is not very difficult, but it does serve as a great gen-ed and a great segway into the Gov. concentration.
Single worst class I've taken at Harvard. Homework is to watch these lecture videos of the Prof. Peterson and an old student reading from a teleprompter. Then you go into class and Prof. Peterson calls on students to regurgitate the bullet points from the videos. Completely mindless. Watch the West Wing and you'll get more information about American government.
Decent class, a lot of freshmen. In class quizzes, so you have to be in lecture.
Really great class that feels rewarding without taking too much effort. Makes you a better citizen and a more critical thinker
If you're willing to watch lecture videos before each class and show up for section, you'd have to go out of your way not to get an A. On top of that, by the end of the semester you'll realize that  you really have learned a lot about the government and you'll be able to think about it much more analytically. Highly recommend for people of all concentrations.
Take this class, you'll learn a ton and it's super easy. Just watch the videos and you'll learn all sorts of interesting and relevant stuff
Good class to fulfill a gen ed requirement. Section is very useful.
This is a very informative and easy going class. You will learn a lot without being too stressed out.
Do not do any of the readings; you can get an A by only watching the videos and studying for the exams. Very easy class. I would not recommend taking it if you have taken AP Gov before since it will be VERY boring and repetitive.
This class is enjoyable and has a fairly light workload (no psets, you just watch about an hour of videos each week). You will learn about how the US government functions and some current events topics. The class  is slightly repetitive if you have taken a high school government course, like AP Government and Politics. Downsides are that the material is not super exciting (but its by no means super boring either), and it is a large lecture class, so you won't get to know the teaching staff or your peers too well. Exams and paper and very reasonable and fair. The course is a good gen ed: fairly easy and moderately interesting.
This class was good. It wasn't intensely interesting since I felt that it was pretty much a repeat of AP GOV. The structure of the class is boring as well. Before class, you have readings and videos to watch that talk about the same materials in the reading. Then when you come to lecture you talk about the SAME thing. I mean I guess it's good for reinforcement but I mostly surfed the Internet during lecture. Peterson has a cute/funny personality. Honestly I feel like just watching the videos is good enough for doing well on the daily quizzes( I hate them they are so annoying). But the midterm and final paper were pretty fair hopefully the final exam is too. I had Avi as a section leader and he was great! Definetly easy going and understands the gov 30 struggle. Try to get a section leader who isn't so tough on grading( Avi isn't teaching it next year so I don't know). Anyways, I wouldn't recommend it for a gen Ed but take it if you are a gov concentrator and you need to fufil the foundation requirement. Super low stress and low time commitment.
The content of this course is pretty useful and interesting, especially for foreign students who want to get a holistic view of politics in the United States. However, the way this course is conducted is unsatisfactory. The lectures cover similar, if not identical, materials from the mandatory online videos and they are not engaging enough.
This is a great USW gen ed! It was very interesting, very easy, and well taught. In fact, this is the easiest class I have ever taken at Harvard. And surprisingly, I learned a ton!!! Totally worth it! Though I can't really respect Gov undergrad majors anymore.
Interesting and important material, but not taught in the best way
Professor Peterson is WONDERFUL!! The course material is also excellent. Some sections though were significantly better/worst than others from what I understand.
It's a stress-free class that is actually quite interesting. You learn a lot about the American Government.
It's a great way to broaden your knowledge about the government and politics, but make sure you like your TF.
The course is an excellent approach to understanding the basic components of the American government but it is very difficult oftentimes to keep up with quizzes/videos at times especially when the workload in all my courses pick up over the course of the semester.
Professor Peterson does a good job in getting people thinking about politics.
Definitely take this course just to be an overall informed citizen. The workload wasn't too bad. You definitely had to watch the videos and do the readings to be able to do well on the quizzes administered every class which forced you to learn the material which was beneficial in my opinion.
That if you want to learn a really good bit about the US government and why things are the way they are today, you should take this class.
The structure of the class needs to be completely reworked, but it's an easy course if you put in minimal effort.
This class is a great way to learn about US politics and government without unnecessary rigor. I feel like the material is taught in a logical way.
This class is by far the biggest regret of my undergraduate career thus far. Be warned that lectures take place in online videos while Professor Peterson spends the actual lecture time trying to hold a discussion section with over 100 students in a large lecture hall. Quizzes are administered every single class, except for three, which allows them to say that quizzes are administered "occasionally". Many of the TFs appear to be incompetent and unaware of the course materials while even Professor Peterson struggles at times to convey information in an intelligible manner. While it may be an easy A, you'll find yourself writing papers for other classes during lectures as you're forced to stay or sneaking out after taking the quiz that tests students on very specific details of the lecture videos, as 40% of the class did on a daily basis. You will regret ever choosing to take this class and come away with little to no helpful knowledge to add to your college career. Save yourself the pain and agony, take Gov 20.
It's a good course. You'll learn about American government and politics, which was good for me because I didn't take AP gov or APUSH in high school. The lectures were a little repetitive after the pre-class videos but overall a pretty good way to do USW while learning things that are useful to life as an adult in the US.
Great background on american government
This is a pretty easy course, especially if you have some prior knowledge of American government. There ended up only being 1 paper, 1 midterm, and the final. All were relatively easy and TFs notify in advance of what to expect. Your TF pretty much determines your entire grade, so getting to know them certainly helps.
Gov 30 is not a particularly hard class but it's not particularly interesting either. Lectures were basically a repeat of the pre-lecture videos, so I often found myself zoning out. You don't need to really do the readings.
Low-commitment, but still an informative class on American government.
While the primary source readings from The Enduring Debate are unlikely to appear on course assessments, they include some of the most interesting and enriching material in the course. Having read them, you will be better equipped to make unique arguments in your exam essays and in section.
This class is interesting, useful, and not too challenging. It requires effort to study for exams, but not so much as to be a deterrent of any kind to taking the class.
Very helpful class in providing an overview of our entire political system in a digestible way. Every Harvard student should understand the material taught in this course in order to be an informed citizen, so it is definitely worth taking for a major or secondary requirement or a gened.
It's a good introduction to gov. The quizzes at the beginning of each lecture hold you accountable for the readings and lecture vids, which is great come the midterm and final. The class can get a bit repetitive though
Beware of future politicians who make you feel irrelevant
One of my favorite courses at Harvard
All of the information was given in the videos that you have to watch before class, with lecture being relatively pointless to go to except for the fact that there was a 5 minute video quiz at the beginning of each lecture. They deviated from the syllabus, so be careful in taking this class. But, in general, it was a GenEd in which I learned a lot and it didn't require much work with one midterm, one fina,l and a paper only work-wise.
For my first Gov class at Harvard, this course was great. It teaches the basics of the American government and politics, which I believe any student should be informed of. Workload is very manageable, and section is great for clarifying any points of uncertainty. Id recommend this course for anyone looking for a gen-ed or concentration/secondary course.
This class is not too difficult and you learn so much.  It is a great elective course for people genuinely interested in government.
The professor is great and the information you acquire is easily internalized as you become more aware of the politics that surround you.
This is a very, very easy Gov and Gen Ed course. It covers the bare minimum of American political history and is, again, not difficult in the slightest.
You're able to succeed if you watch the videos, take notes, and do the readings.
Definitely take this class if you're at all interested in understanding the impact of public opinion on court decisions or the evolution of legislation.
This is the best US & the World Gen Ed to take! I knew very little about the American government system going into this class. Professor Peterson presents all of the information very simply and very clearly, allowing you to process it first on your own at home, and then to really cement the ideas again in class. The workload is very light, and the pay off is very big.
Hands down the most frustrating class I've taken at Harvard. Videos must be watched before each lecture to get full points on the quiz given before essentially every lecture; however, the lecture consists of the exact same slides as the videos. Section is just as unhelpful. If you want to feel like you're in a perfunctorily taught high school class with hundreds of other students, this class if for you. If you have any remnant of intellectual curiosity of self respect, consider another class.
Take this class if you want a low-stress opportunity to learn more about American politics. I'm a Gov concentrator who's mainly stuck to the more comparative politics track, but this course has really inspired me to learn more about American politics, and has made me more cognizant of my civic and  political duties.
If you're interested in the subject matter then take the course! You learn a lot. The lecture videos are key.
Take this class!
Gov 30 is a great introduction to the US government.  It does a fantastic job of both introducing many different topics while also going into adequate depth about each.  There are only three assignments, however, so you need not take this course if you do not study well - you will sink!
This is a great course to introduce you to the American Government. I found the material very interesting, but the lectures were a bit boring. Your homework is to watch lecture videos, which you then "discuss" in class. This strategy sounds better than it is in reality.
Very introductory
This course is a good gen-ed for someone not very interested in government. It gives a broad overview of how the US governmental system works. The only work required, aside from essays and exams, is watching the pre-lecture videos--the readings are not necessary. This class is what you make of it; I enjoyed the material, but found the lectures dry.
A pretty straightforward US/W Gen Ed. The expectations of the course are very clear, and overall a pretty engaging course. The structure makes sure that you keep up with the work throughout the term
Great class if you're interested in learning the foundations of the U.S. political system. Not particularly difficult if you watch the videos or at least read through the lecture before class.
This is a good introduction to a government track.
Cool class - you learn about the workings of the government at large. Professor Peterson is cool. Wished they had given more guidelines on what exactly they wanted in quizzes and midterms and finals before actaully administering them.
This class could definitely be much better. It was very annoying having to watch video lectures and then sit through the exact same lecture the next day, simply because we began each class with a short quiz. Professor Peterson is not a very engaging lecturer either. Also, the class is just so huge. Also, our final paper was so vague and had very little to do with what we actually learned in the course.
Lecture was not structured in a way it should be. Professor Peterson is a great guy, but I feel like most of the material was self-taught rather than taught in the traditional lecture format.
The lecture is boring..
Loved this course. It's super easy, Peterson is a lovable guy, all the TFs are great, and the content is interesting.
Very straightforward class.  Watch the videos and you will be fine for material covered in the midterm and final.
Do the lecture videos, and that's about it
strong conservative bias, shouldn't stop you from taking the class, but just be aware of that
it is an interesting class
Professor Peterson himself is a great lecturer and his video lecture notes were also a huge help for me. He encouraged us to participate in lecture while also providing plenty of his personal insight. As for my section leader, I felt that she simply did not know the answers to many things as well as I would have expected her to, considering I barely ever heard her personal opinion.
The class is incredibly boring and repetitive. You watch videos which take about an hour, then read on the same topic, then hear the same information in lecture and then review it again in section. It feels like a 3rd grade class.
This is a great intro class for freshman interested in Gov and for everyone else too. It isn't hard and the teaching staff is great. The online lecture videos and daily quizzes are a little annoying but are interesting and make sure that you are keeping up with the coursework which is admittedly a good thing.
Whether you're trying to fulfill concentration requirements or get a GenEd out of the way, this class is definitely a stress-free and fun way to do so. This class is comparable to AP US government in high school, so it may be a bit redundant for some, but Professor Peterson will make you laugh (mostly unintentionally) and you'll have a great time learning about the basics of US politics and government.
It is easy as a gen ed
This class is a very chill introduction to US government; if you have never taken AP US or AP Gov then go ahead and take this class. It will not be that hard although you must keep up with the lecture videos, which you must watch before class and then there is a quiz each class on the videos from the night before. Peterson really isn't that bad of a lecturer, it's just that there were way too many people in this class for the format that he is currently teaching.
interesting class, although with several different levels of knowledge - some people were very well-versed in views on several court cases/issues, while others were just learning about basic court structure. lectures were interesting.
Relatively easy class.  Very informative and Peterson cares about the material.  It is taught through mostly online videos with a lecture supplement.  The lectures are large but discussion driven.  It may start to get repetitive between lectures and videos.
