This course will challenge you to meaningfully confront and interpret the contemporary and quickly evolving literature on civil war.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
The course was excellent. It would be useful to keep an eye on the overall question of civil war rather than getting to focused on the methods.
Take this course if you have an open mind about what constitutes good research, if you are interested in learning to approach the material in new ways, and if you are actually prepared to do the reading thoroughly.
This is a chance to work with one of the great minds in conflict studies (especially for those interested in Africa), as well as some very talented fellow students.
Very good, rigorous introduction to current theories and especially to current research design in comparative and IR.
It's a great course. Listening to Prof. Bates is among the best parts.
A worthwhile class for anyone fairly proficient in quantitative methods, but interested in increasing comfort level with political economy literature that uses models, both statistical and game theoretic.  Challenging and rigorous in a way that motivates you to engage with the difficult measurement issues that many authors confront in their articles.
A great course! Recommend it absolutely! Had a great experience with this course!
Overall a good course.  The quality of the class will depend largely on your classmates.  To benefit maximally from the class, be prepared to spend a lot of time unpacking the readings.
This is a very enlightening course that deals with a set of theoretical and empirical models not widely encountered in the formal theory-political economy literature. However, I would under no circumstance recommend taking it without taking Gov 2005 and 2001.
A great course with a great reading list.  It will go by too quickly.  It is a bit easy to let the term paper slide too long though...
This course is hard, be prepared to do a lot of reading and to be able to engage on a high theoretical level.
Good review of some of the literature on civil war.
This class critically evaluates the empirical strategies adopted in the civil war literature. As such, it promises to make you a more sophisticated consumer of that literature, while bringing you up to date with the latest findings in the field.
This class is challenging but the material is very interesting
