it provides good exposure to the core issues of social choice in a way that is accessible but still very insightful
i wouldn't recommend this course for most students. i would only recommend it if the person was seriously interested in social choice theory, and, even then, i would just recommend that they take 2020b, which spends its last 2 weeks on social choice. there's not much value added in 2006, to be honest, especially for the people interested in applied formal work.
Interesting course and lively professor, but not clear that one really gets a good understanding on Formal Theory tools from it. Very focused on Acemoglu's/Robinson's "Economic Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy" book.
it is a great class for those who are interested in using formal theory in political science in particular comparative politics
A very good introduction to the latest in formal modeling and the literature. But be prepared to have to slog through a lot of the material on your own time, as the classes go so quickly that it is hard to follow and the slides are hard to work through on your own.
Great if you are interested in game theory. Tough class though.
You get out of this course what you put in.
Anyone who wants to learn about leading formal theory research on development and institutions will find the class very useful.
The class is useful as a broad exposure to the kind of modeling done in Political science. It's good if you just want to get a sense of the kind of theories used in political science. It may be less useful if you are just interested in the ideas in a less mathematical manner.
The course had very interesting material. You get to see cool applications of game theory to the realm of political science and the lecture and section material provides interesting problems to consider for future research.
This course does a great job exposing students to seminal and current papers in political economy that have some game theoretical element at their core. It builds theoretical understanding through application. If this is the way you learn, this is a great course for you. If it is not, you might want to supplement it with another.
Take this class if you want to develop some modeling skills applied to PE
If you're serious about formal modeling, take this class. But know that it is just the beginning of the road and you will need to take more classes after this. In my estimation, it is worth it because modeling helps you think very clearly about what your argument is and what your assumptions are.
A hard course but the material is useful for research and is taught enthusiastically. Those not completely confident with formal theory will probably still find it helpful. But getting the most out of it requires persistence and time commitment.
This course is excellent. It is very demanding in terms of time commitment but it is truly rewarding.
Devote a lot of time to studying.
Strong introduction to topics in political game theory - the course will get you to the point where you can consume a lot of models in recent journal articles (to start producing them too would require a lot more).
i would highly recommend this course, especially if you will deal with american politics or comparative politics
