This was a great class and Professor Wang is funny!
it'll be interesting but only if you're interesting in east asia
This course provided a concrete, relatable, and reasonably detailed overview of East Asia's development and the political explanations for its economic boom. The class is very accessible and friendly to students without experience in economics (I'm a gov secondary who never took Ec10 and still felt right at home). The course material is fascinating and relevant, the readings are engaging and not too heavy for a typical gov course (about 3-4 hours per week, including time to do weekly iSite blog posts), and "pop" quizzes are always announced at least a week ahead of time. There is no essay component, so your grade basically depends on your quizzes, midterm, and final. The final exam this year is not cumulative.Despite these strengths, course is not perfect - Professor Want is an amazing lecturer who loves to answer even extraneous questions, so we got sidetracked and fell behind on several lectures; occasionally, things felt rushed or under-explained. Exam multiple choice questions are also really tricky and subjective even though lecture material is so concrete and the concepts aren't tricky. Sometimes they draw on derivatives of derivatives of the main lecture themes, so you have to make inferences or take lucky guesses. They also draw from obscure parts of the reading not discussed in section or lecture, so you have to be ready for anything!Either way, would recommend highly as a course of moderate difficulty with a fantastic lecturer and important core concepts.
This class was a great primer on political and economic development in East Asia! China and Japan in particular were covered extensively. This course also introduces new perspectives on how growth in this region could be used to think about Latin America and Africa. The course did not deal as extensively with Southeast Asia as I would have hoped.
A fun a painless way to learn about an increasingly important (and fascinating!) region! Professor Wang is great and you will learn a lot. Keep up with the readings and everything (the quizzes and the midterm/final) will be manageable! They are fair about testing content that properly measures what you know/what you've read.
This is a great class that will teach you the highlights of what's going on in a really important area of the world. Lectures are just the right length to be interesting without being overwhelming. Would definitely recommend.
Professor Wang is amazing, lectures are great, subject matter is super interesting and increasingly relevant, workload is relatively minimal (no paper!), even the reading is engaging... One of my favorite courses at Harvard.
Phenomenal class, not a hard government class and you learn nonetheless. The professor is incredibly kind and approachable and the crass does not assign crazy readings. Extremely manageable and all around a nice class to have taken.
I literally love Yuhua!!!, Seth, and Austin. This class was so amazing, I learned about East Asian and Southeast Asian from a very different point of view. I really enjoyed lectures and the readings were also so informative and fun. Prof. Wang makes the class so funny and enjoyable with his corny and fun jokes. Section with Austin was also fun and interactive and got to learn a lot about the region from the teaching staff. Everyone needs to take this class to learn more about Japan and East Asia in general. So glad I took it!!!
Gov1279 is an incredible class! Professor Wang, aside from just being extremely knowledgeable on East and Southeast Asia, has a great sense of humor and his lectures are always a joy to be in. Assignments in the class were always very fair, and the TFs also did a great job. If you have any interest in learning about Asian economies from a historical as well as contemporary perspective, I would wholeheartedly recommend this course!
Great class! The material is interesting, Professor Wang is an engaging lecturer, and assignments are fair.
As a non-gov concentrator, I really enjoyed this class. I think it's a great course to get a basic understanding of East Asia's development over time, and Professor Wang does a fantastic job at explaining things in a clear and concise way. Furthermore, everything in the course is extremely fair. There are no surprises on quizzes and exams, which I appreciate. Also, this semester Professor Wang made all the readings available on the course website, so that's an extra plus! Lectures are almost always engaging, and I would highly recommend the class!
Take this class! You will not regret it! It's well taught, well run, well formatted...it's, well, really cool!
I thought the course was great overall. The TFs are great and lead really productive sections, and Professor Wang is a really helpful (and well-dressed) professor. The readings are more than manageable and the mid-term and final are fair assessments of what you learn in the class. If you want to learn about more political economy in East Asia, then this is a great course and there is no reason you shouldn't take it if you are interested in the subject.
Excellent way to learn about the politics and economic conditions in East and Southeast Asia. The professor is engaging and accessible, as are the TFs, and the course helps you learn a lot.
INCREDIBLE CLASS.Please take it, even if you don't need it for the comp requirement. I had no interest in Asia and now I am fascinated. Prof Wang is great. His lectures are streamlined, accurate, to the point and very informative. He keeps your attention and has fun stories and current events to keep the course grounded in the real world. The readings are the perfect length, and exams are fairly graded. Not much effort goes into the class. You have to do a response before section but that is great because you can see other people's responses before the final and that helps remember the readings better. There is a fair amount of economics, so take it if you have taken Ec10b.
Good course, lecturing slightly repetitive of reading but Prof Wang is very willing to take questions (sometimes to a fault). I learned a lot and would take the course again.
Great class! Yuhua Wang is a great professor! And it is pretty easy.
It works as a gov class which covers some more contemporary subjects and has an eye to the future.
This is a great course- take it even if you have no experience with SE Asia or economics. It's a great chance to learn about both. You'll learn the basics of the history of the region, economic developments, and key events like the Asian Financial crisis. You'll walk away knowing more about global economic issues.
A great overview of political economy of the region, from pre-war to modern times; having analyzed different aspect of the society from the historical, cultural, neoclassical, market, and government perspectives, I was able to understand the origins of the East Asian miracle and recognize the origins of instabilities and insecurities in the region.
Great course to be able to get enough knowledge for a "cock-tail conversation" about East/Southeast Asia.
This class was AMAZING! Honestly one of my favorite classes to have taken at Harvard. As a STEM concentrator with basically only high school economics and no gov experience, I found the coursework very manageable -- just 2 midterms, weekly readings, and a weekly reading reflection. Professor Wang was very enthusiastic and also sometimes funny / witty, making lecture enjoyable. The topic material focused heavily on Japan, Korea, and Taiwan starting from the Tokugawa / Meiji periods until current times, with an additional focus on China and Vietnam in recent modern history (e.g. Cultural Revolution and after). I found the material super interesting, and it's given me really good context on current events in the region.
Great course! Yuhua is an engaging lecturer and easy to follow.
Really interesting course about a very important region of the world. It was effectively a comparative government and political economy class. I learned a lot about the different forms of government in this region, and I definitely think of East Asia as much less of a monolithic entity than I did before. Pretty easy quizzes and exams. Lectures were great!
This is really really good class to take if you are interested in East and Southeast Asia, although by the end you may have a lot more respect for authoritarianism than you might like as a godfearing American. You have to do all of the readings to do well on the course, but it's curved because a lot of seniors take it pass/fail! Make sure you get Seth as your TF. Professor Wang is also very funny and accessible outside of class :) He is the only professor who ended the class with a collection of Harvard Memes (as well as arguments for and against why China should democratize.)
