It's a flexible course so really depends on what you want from it.
It is a required class for PhD students.
This year, the class was not very helpful. We received little feedback on work, and classes were not structured well.
You get as much out of this class as you put in (at least in its current format).
This course is an excellent way to get exposed to the variety within political science.  It is also a great time to start developing nascent research ideas and get feedback from your peers and Dan.
The course is a great opportunity to get to know the work of a range of scholars in the department and to get an introduction to some of the key debates in the field, but the overall of structure of the course could be a bit more focused.
this is a requirement but it's not too stressful. you really get out of it what you put in, so its a great introduction to graduate school and the way you should see your courses here. don't stress out too much about this course. professor carpenter is great and will make class discussions interesting. if you don't read the papers, at least skim them or the abstracts so that you can facilitate discussion.
Take advantage of the opportunity to present your research proposals to your peers. This is an excellent way to get feedback on your ideas, and to develop collaborative projects with other graduate students.
It's a good venue to get feedback on research ideas.
Course is required, so it doesn't matter if I recommend it or not
You can get as much out of this class as you want - if you want to do minimal work, you can. However, if you want to engage in a wide range of topics and really understand the research process, you can put a lot of work into the class and get a lot out of it. Some weeks are better than others, but when a topic interests you, it is worth it to put in the time.
It's mandatory, so nothing
The discussions tended to break down a bit with everyone on their laptops and not doing the reading. But it is nice to present research ideas and have them discussed.
I think they should continue to have it, but it should resemble a seminar more than it does.
As a required introductory class for all Government students not all of the topics and discussions are going to be within your own field of interest. That said, the opportunity to meet faculty and be introduced to their work is useful, and the chance to discuss issues of professional development and student research proposals invaluable.
The course is interesting but not very beneficial compared to other courses.  The time would be far better spent actually meeting one on one with faculty and working on individual research.
It's a great chance to learn about your cohort's interests and to gain new exposure to faculty.
If it were not required, I would not take this course
In general, I did not find this course very useful. I think it is possible to get feedback on proposals from other PhD students and professors outside of this class as well and we did not really benefit from hearing from people who we are very unlikely to work with in the future and whose work was not always of interest to our field of study.
Its a good idea, but since its a new course, the kinks in execution need to worked out.
Use it as a chance to get to know your cohort. And go to dinner or out for drinks together afterward.
