An eye-opener in so many ways. Class discussions were really enriching, and the final paper was a tough, but worthwhile experience.
Take it!
Fantastic course.  If you know you will put the time in each week to do the readings, the weekly discussions will be very engaging and interesting.  Took the course as an elective and do not regret the extra work for a second.
Anyone interested at all in political philosophy should take this class. The readings are foundational, the assignments are reasonable, and Katie is a superb seminar leader.
Take this course! Great way to learn about the intersection of philosophy and politics. Will make you reexamine your assumptions about IR and development.
This course is, broadly speaking, about what we owe to people outside of our borders, which is to say that it asks some of the most fascinating, pressing, and necessary questions of our time. It's very demanding, but it truly changes the way that you think about the world. Katie is one of the most brilliant teachers I've ever had: she manages to synthesize and present dense material with astounding clarity, and she truly cares about the intellectual growth of each of her students. It's such a shame that she's leaving next year.
This is a wonderful course, take it!
Make sure that you do all the weekly readings, otherwise it's hard to benefit from the class. If you can start on your research paper early that would really be helpful to you with the final version.
I definitely recommend this class to anyone with an interest in politics, philosophy, or basic human rights. I came out of this class with a much better understanding of major works in political philosophy, and I am now in a better position to make formal and written arguments on relevant subjects. Katie is also one of the best instructors I have had at Harvard; I improved significantly as both a writer and thinker under her guidance and instruction.
This course is fantastic! The material is extremely interesting and provides a great overview of global distributive justice theory. The weeks on applied ethics (i.e. immigration, climate change) during the second half of the course is also very interesting. Professor Gallagher is an incredible teacher, facilitating class discussion well while also clarifying confusing theoretical concepts effectively. The research paper (25-30 pages) may seem daunting at first, but I appreciated getting an introductory experience in researching and writing such a long paper.
