This class can be a little dry sometimes, but it is worth taking. Taught by a law school professor reading cases from a casebook, you will find no better way to engage with Constitutional Law as an undergraduate. If you have any intention of going to law school, TAKE THIS CLASS. You will not regret it.
The course is not hard, the lectures are interesting, and you'll be a more informed voter, news consumer, and citizen after taking it. Fallon is kind of hilarious - and awkward.
I highly recommend this course. It is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard thus far. If you are interested in law or how to read cases, you should take this course. This course covers some of the most important Supreme Court cases such as those of the First Amendment, Commerce Clause, Equal Protection, Due Process, etc. The lectures are very engaging and section involved lively discussion.
Take this course if you want to experience an argumentative side of American government. This course will ask you to be assertive and really does help you learn, not just memorize. It's not easy, but the challenge is valuable and doable.
If you're interested at law, you should definitely take this class. It's very enjoyable. Try to get ADAM SANDEL as your TF. He is the BOSS.
This course's readings are very interesting, but the papers can be brutal. I do not recommend saving them for the end of the allotted two-week writing period.
TAKE IT. TAKE IT. TAKE IT.
Wonderful class! I learned a lot not only about constitutional law but about the history of the United States, as well.
I wasn't crazy about this class, but I can't really put my finger on why. Fallon is a good lecturer, but lectures can get a little drawn-out and chaotic. There is a lot of reading and it is important, so casually taking this class for a gen ed credit would probably not be the best decision. I'm a gov concentrator and while I'm glad I took this class, I think this is the kind of material that is more compelling when taught in a more intimate environment rather than a huge lecture. Section did not really make up that shortfall for me.
Excellent class. People say it is hard but really only in the sense that you have to do the readings and take notes in lecture. If you are at all interested in politics or law this class is perfect. The essays are not graded easily so it is not necessarily an easy way to get ER out of the way but is definitely fulfilling and not unbearable. Professor Fallon is one of those professors who truly cares about the students and the subject. Overall, take the class.
This class is life-changing. I view the court and the legal system in a completely different and more enriched way than I did before. While it is certainly no wash (definitely my most serious and challenging class of the semester), it's one of the best ways to knock out an ER requirement and also learn something useful for life. I am a US history nerd, so I enjoyed how Fallon would connect the cases to the times they occurred during. Section is helpful, although sometimes frustrating given that a lot of people in the class are coming from a background of strong legal knowledge. 90 minute lectures are tough (although Fallon's stares when people exit the room are priceless) and sometimes the last 20 minutes of the class would be spent checking email/spacing out especially during less thrilling topics like campaign finance regulation, but I cannot stress enough how lucky I was to have Fallon as a teacher. He is a treasure to Harvard. The papers were very challenging to write, and caused me some of my later nights at college thus far. The final (I was one of few to take it during the first make-up time) was fair. Study the cases, synthesize the material and make a good review sheet and it will be fine. You will feel so much smarter after this class!
this is a really good class to take if you want to be a responsible citizen with at least a basic knowledge of our judicial history
Should be required for anyone interested in law or American government and politics in any way. Provides a fantastic overview of Con law issues and history
Very good class.  Professor Fallon's lectures are very enjoyable and interesting.  Definitely take if you are at all interested in constitutional law and its role in American government.
Definitely not for the faint of heart, take this class if you have an interest in law school or want to know more about US institutions. I wouldn't say it changed my life, but it definitely enlightened me in terms of how I view the Supreme Court's place in US history.
It is extremely helpful, and I think everyone should take a law class like this at least once in their life. It is so helpful to know how the legal system works, and how the supreme court makes decisions. That being said, this class is very difficult and takes a ton of work. If you are looking to fulfill your ethical reasoning, this may not be the best class to take.
Professor Fallon gives fantastic lectures - you learn so much about constitutional law as a theoretical practice, as a reality of precedents, and the legal side of American history.
If you want to learn constitutional law in college, this is the way to do it. It's hard, though, so make sure you're really interested in the material.
this is a relatively easy and interesting course that is great for pre law students. the constitutional cases we review all relate in some way to modern day moral issues
The material is a bit dry but once you get the hang of the jargon it becomes more digestible.
This class gives you a good grounding in constitutional law, as well as an interesting insight into the various shifts in social ideals throughout the US's history. Either the readings or careful attention to the lectures is necessary, but both would be a bit of overkill as he often reviews the most important aspects of the reading in lecture.
Take it. It's mind blowing.
This was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard, and I strongly recommend that anyone with an interest in Constitutional Law or even government more broadly take it. Lectures are engaging, section was truly excellent, and the assignments push you to think and analyze in new ways.
Amazing class. Definitely take. So incredibly fair and worth your time.
Government 1510 is a great course in exploring how the Constitution has come to play such an important part in American society, and the important role that such a succinct document plays in our government. Though the reading is fairly dense, the material is very interesting, and the course moves quickly, ensuring that there is something that sparks your interest each week.
This class has a lot of reading but you don't necessarily have to keep up with all of it, as the lectures are fantastic and pretty comprehensive. That being said, you have to put a lot of time into your essays and studying for the final. However, if you want to understand both American history and the present state of the US, this is the perfect course for you. It also causes you to re-evaluate your own beliefs. I took it as an ER, and it was perfect!! Not too philosophical, and all the philosophy was grounded in relevant and important real life examples/history.
I think this may be the best class I have taken at Harvard thus far. I can't imagine a better professor for this course than Richard Fallon. He is a fount of constitutional knowledge and despite the fact that everything he says is gold, he still makes time for - and thoughtfully considers - student questions during lecture. The teaching staff is very capable and the papers take some time but are actually pretty fun and interesting to write. Definitely take it while you have the chance!!! (plus it counts for E&R if you aren't sold already)
Really great class - Fallon's lectures are terrific, and it's a great intro to con law. His lectures should be an hour though, not an hour and a half. He repeats himself for the last half hour.
Please take this class! Go to every lecture, take notes, read every assignment, take notes, write every response paper and put thought into it, go to every section and prepare for debates, and write every essay ahead of time. You'll know so much about constitutional law that you'll win every political debate you'll ever have.
It's a really interesting class but you have to stay on top of the reading.
This course was one of the best courses I took at Harvard. The structure of the class is great and Professor Fallon was a terrific teacher who was very enthusiastic about the material. I feel like I learned so much in this class and I would take it again and again if I could!
This class is a great introduction to Con. Law. Fallon is one of the best lecturers coming from the law school to teach at the college. He makes sure to explain the relevant issues of each theme we discuss in class. It's worth doing the readings so as to get the most out of the class.
So you think you want to be a lawyer and this course will help?  Well it will!  With only *cough* payments of $13.99, you too can be an expert in constitutional law.  For all those aspiring brown-nosers out there, this is the course for you to try to impress your TF.  Depends on what TF you have.  I had Claire and she was pretty awesome.  If you have one of the guys who's a dick, then sorry.  I was walking from the test after the whole bomb threat thing, and when we asked the head TF what was up, he flicked us off.  Ok...maybe he didn't do that, but he disregarded us with equal offense.  I liked the course, and learned a lot about our judicial system.  I learned even more about how some people do not want to take a test. I'm sure there is a case setting precedence for his situation.
Professor Fallon's lectures are great and the teaching staff is very reasonable. A great introductory course to constitutional law.
This class is fantastic! Although the readings (cases) can be a little dense at times, the course is an amazing way to get insight into how the Supreme Court looks at cases that come its way.  Definitely take it if you have a chance - even if lecture can get a little dry sometimes, Fallon always asks for student participation, and section is absolutely amazing!
This is great opportunity to think about American history and law in a new way. Wrapping your brain around a different kind of logic and debate (that is constitutional law) is fun and intellectually stimulating, if frustrating at times due to Supreme Court decisions you may not agree with! You get a good amount of American history as a side benefit, too. Professor Fallon is wonderful - wise, approachable, a great lecturer who is always happy to ask and answer questions. He has opinions but he does not let them color his teaching at all. If you're lucky, you'll have a TF as engaging and fun as Dan, which made section something I looked forward to and really learned from.
A cool course to get a look at constitutionality if you've never thought about it before
This course is good. There are superb lectures. FAllon is really charismatic and he makes dense material go down easy. the lecures are long, however, 1.5 hours. there is also tons of memorization you need to do: memorizing case names, case summaries, legal opinions, facts about cases, which is super boring and does not make you a better thinker.but the course is a great introduction to conlaw, it that's what you're interested in. I found out that I am not interested in conlaw from taking this course, but the course is excellent at its aim at least. You learn tons.
it's more worthwhile if you do all the readings. a perfect gen-ed: accessible, interesting, challenging to the point where you get something out of it but not difficult, and worthwhile to your overall education and growth as a person
This class is fantastic. Professor Fallon is exceptional, and spearheads an equally impressive teaching staff. The lectures are awesome, the readings are on-point, sections are rewarding, and the assignments will make you think. The class is also not a back-breaker. If you need a gen-ed, take this class!
This is a class you should take even if you have no intention of going to law school. You will walk out of the class having learned important information regarding the powers of our government. You will be able to confidently talk about all of the Supreme Court's major decisions with your eyes closed.
The class is worthwhile for the engaging lectures and interesting readings.  However, be prepared for a very hard class, which my TF summarized as follows (following the "easy grading" controversy): "if you took this class expecting an easy A, you picked the wrong class!"  If you're interested in pursuing law in the future, however, this class should be taken, since there are hardly any classes offered in the college related to law.
This is a challenging course. The material is dense and the number of cases can seem daunting, not to mention the complex facets of the implications of each case and the decision made. But this is definitely a manageable class, and a very solid introduction to the nature of legal thought. I'm very happy I took this class. Fallon is an open, energetic, and thought-provoking professor who encourages new ideas. If you can, and are interested in law, take this course.
The best part of the course: the amazing lectures. They are morally insightful without being preachy, but provide a very human look at the way American constitutional law has evolved in its history. The worst part of the course: the length and convoluted sentences in the weekly readings, as well as occasionally the spoken lectures.
This class is a great way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning. It is very applicable to modern political and moral issues and makes you think about them in a new way. I'd highly recommend this class to anyone interested in current events or politics.
Regardless of what concentration you study or where you are from, as individuals attending the most prestigious university in the United States, you should understand the American Constitution and this course will definitely help you gain a deeper understanding of the Constitution and this country.
Take it. My favorite class. Fallon's amazing, though it may take a lecture or two to realize it. Ashley was a phenomenal TF (too bad she's graduating HLS!) The assignments are fair, but graded sternly. I didn't take the final because of the bomb threat interruption, but other students will and will hopefully give feedback on it. Suffice it to say, I was actually sad to have missed the final, as I was genuinely looking forward to it(you will never hear me say that again). Truly sad to see this class end.
Really valuable information/way of thinking for anyone interested in law school or for anyone wanting to be a more informed American citizen. Really changed the way I view the Supreme Court and justice system. Sometimes the lectures lacked a bit of focus, but overall, Fallon is an amazing teacher.
Incredibly interesting materialwould recommend to anyone interested in constitutional law. Fallon is a great lecturer and a genuinely caring person, as well. The workload is very manageable, and the paper prompts make you think but aren't too difficult. Definitely worth taking it when it's offered again!
Start the papers early. ASK your TFs about what you're writing and get feedback on your ideas. The readings and lecture can be pretty redundant. Make good use of online resources like Oyez that help you make sense of all of the cases after you've read them in the book.
A fun introduction to Con Law that gets the big concepts in without the boredom of legal minutiae.
This course is not terribly difficult, and yet it imparts a great deal of useful knowledge concerning constitutional law. If you have even the slightest interest in the American judicial system (and need to satisfy that Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed!) then I highly recommend taking this.
Be prepared to read.
This is a wonderful experience to take a law school like class at the undergraduate level by one of HLS' most respected professors.  The reading load is quite manageable and the essays weren't too much work.  Prof Fallon and the TFs did say that grading was harsher than the average class, but I can't comment much on that knowing only my grades.  I would strongly recommend this course to those considering law school or just wanting to learn more about ConLaw while satisfying a gened.
This course was simultaneously very interesting and also frustrating.  I got the impression that your overall experience would be highly dependent on your section.  For example, there seemed to be no uniform way of grading the assignments, it really depended on which TF you had.
Great overview of constitutional law, taught by one of the foremost professors in the field. Fallon is a great lecturer, and you'll come away with a really solid foundation in con. law.
Couldn't think of a better way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed.
This is a superb class, extremely important and relevant to all students in some way or another.
This course is pretty important if you are considering law school. That said, be careful of the professor's bias. On the whole, he is pretty even-handed but his proclivity for civil rights cases and his dismissal of originalism make it obvious where he stands on judicial activism. If you do take the course, don't take what the TFs or professor says for granted. Be skeptical! This course will help you to think like a lawyer, just don't fall into the mold of common law judicial activism!
It's a unique and amazing Harvard opportunity.
Best class I've taken at Harvard hands down...Fallon does an amazing job of presenting arguments for real hot button issues without leaning toward one side or another and is very skilled as a lecturer...hour and a half lectures seemed to fly by because the content was so interesting...section was great too as most were in the form of mock debates/trials...great great class
This course is the best. Having read through Q scores about it previously, I know that I am contributing little new when I say that Professor Fallon and the teaching staff make this course. They are all invested deeply in the success of students and spare no time or energy to make that happen. I have never had a professor so explicitly make himself available outside of class hours for any questions or appear to be so aggrieved that he could not attend student-faculty dinners.
In theory, learning constitutional law sounded great. I don't think this class was structured well. Lectures were hard to follow. Grading seemed arbitrary. You should get better grades in classes in which you put in more work, but I didn't feel that more work translated into higher graders. I learned that constitutional law seems kind of hand-wavy.the Justices themselves seem to do whatever they want, but we as students of the law are supposed to take it all very very seriously.
This class is great. Professor Fallon is a star professor, and you'll learn sooo much from him. The grading on the papers is pretty tough, so I'd recommend it with reservations for those who aren't proficient writers. If you're at all interested in law school, this class is perfect for you.
This is for sure the best gov class I've taken and one of my favorites at Harvard. Professor Fallon is an incredible lecturer. The readings are completely manageable and you will actually want to do them. The class is very well-run and you will enjoy taking it!
A great introductory course on american constitutional law and history. The professor clearly has certain ideological leanings towards constitutional interpretation, but is fair in presenting all sides of the discussion. Take this if you are interested in getting a taste of constitutional doctrine. Maybe the next time you complain about a Supreme Court decision, you'll actually read the Court's opinion before sounding ignorant.
as a senior who is considering law school, i am so glad i took this course. i went in with very minimal knowledge about the law, and con law has turned out to be my favorite class this semester! professor fallon is extremely engaging, knowledgeable, and organized, and i enjoyed going to lecture every time. his passion for the subject is contagious, and i have learned so much from the class. i feel like i have a much better grasp on current events because of what i learned in con law, which is something everyone can benefit from. take this class!
While at times the lectures can feel a little lengthy, the material covered is fascinating and just getting to hear Professor Fallon is an honor in itself.  He is a brilliant and engaging lecturer and the court truly makes you think in a different way about the Constitution and the Supreme Court.  You will learn more in a few months about our Supreme Court than you did in all of high school
Definitely take this class!  Fallon is one of the best professors I have had at Harvard - in addition to giving outstanding lectures, he really cares about his students and tries to be accessible to answer questions after class and outside of class.  As long as you stay on top of the readings, the papers are pretty straightforward, and the course is not too difficult.  Plus, it can count for both Gov. credit and ER credit!
This is a class you can come out of feeling truly accomplished. The workload is not as bad as some may say--there are a lot of dense readings, and you DO have to go to every lecture, but it is enjoyable. The papers are nicely spaced out as well.
I would disagree with previous reviewers in saying that this course will prepare you for law school or give you some idea of what law school is like; the lectures are not very interactive, no cold-calling takes place, and impressions of our HLS student section leaders were holistically negative. However, this course offers a superb reading list and an opportunity to hear Richard Fallon, an authority in the field of constitutional law, flesh out our legal system as few can. If you do not leave this course with some increased appreciation for how our legal system has become what it is, I would argue that you are simply not paying attention. This course can be life-changing, but your grade and your face-value experience may not reflect that take-away.
Definitely take this course if you want an in-depth, cohesive, and interesting look at some of the most interesting Supreme Court cases in our nation's history. Also, this is one of the few courses at Harvard that offers an analysis and discussion about contemporary issues facing America today.
Be prepared to work hard and engage closely with the materials. Overall, a challenging class to learn something completely new!
Really an excellent gem. If you're interested in law or US history, take this class.
Good class to satisfy a Gov requirement. Fallon did not impress me as much as I thought he would based on past evaluations. Thought lectures were kind of boring at times and it was hard to stay engaged with the material. Section helped, as did the papers- I really liked the hypothetical-law assignment.
It's a solid class, but be prepared to be engaged week to week if you want the class to be pleasant.
gotta know con law
This is an excellent course if you have any interest in American Constitutional Law whatsoever. Professor Fallon is an amazing lecturer and he really cares about undergrads. The paper assignments are also very interesting applications of the material.
You can get away with not doing the reading if you pay attention in lecture. Or get away with not going to lecture if you do the reading.Also, this class is pretty great.
It's good overall, but Fallon's lecture style isn't very compelling. If you do the readings you'll find that going to lecture essentially means reviewing them for an hour and a half. Other than that though, it's pretty good.
This course is by far not the most fulfilling I've taken at Harvard. That said, I know a lot more about constitutional law than I did at the beginning of the semester. I also got to know a few interesting people in section, and section itself was great.
Great course for anyone interested in US politics, thinking about law or who simply wishes to be more informed on the American political system! Prof. Fallon is also an amazing professor, so definitely worth taking.
So, this is a great course with fascinating material and an incredibly knowledgeable professor. Know that there are a lot of dense readings every week and Fallon is really into grade deflation, so taking this class might have an adverse effect on your GPA unless you're already trained in how to write a gov paper.
Reading the casebook is recommended but not entirely necessary. Fallon is fantastic. This class is one of those opportunities you can't pass up if you want to be prepared to be an actual citizen.
As far as ethical reasoning classes go, I think this was a gem. I took the course because I didn't want to take ER18, which would have been much easier but I was not as interested in the subject matter. That being said, it was a lot of work and I think I would have gotten more out of the class had I been able to do all of the readings. The grading curve seemed difficult. Section was one of the best parts of the class. Fallon was a good lecturer but section is where I felt we really pulled all the main ideas together. Hypotheticals were very interesting and some of the most useful exercises. Overall, good class but make sure you are prepared for the workload.
the class is essentially a well-oiled machine of indoctrination into a living constitution approach to constitutional interpretation. most of you who take the class will sit there nodding your head and applaud with the rest of the herd at the end of lecture. those with more questioning minds however can get a lot out of the course... not because richard fallon or his course materials are especially enlightening--his intellect resides in a bubble, the boundaries of which are 1787 and the present day--but because the material is inherently interesting and there is a lot that he says that you can push back against.
An amazing course that really opens your eyes!
This is a phenomenal introduction to American Constitutional Law; Professor Fallon is a fantastic teacher who generates enthusiasm for the material and clearly demonstrates his expertise in the field. Furthermore the issues examined in the course and the legal lens used sheds a whole new light on debates I thought I had a pretty good grasp on. Even the assigned papers were fun to think about and write. If you have any interest in American government, law, or current domestic issues in the US, I would highly and unreservedly recommend this course.
Much is expected, but much will be gained in return. Wonderful lectures; dense and require attention. Thought-provoking and in my opinion, an essential course for anyone considering law school, politics, or simply educated citizenship.
This is a fantastic, if not completely thorough, introduction to constitutional law. My one complaint is that we spent a lot of time on certain topics (free speech, affirmative action, racial discrimination) at the expense of others (for example, Miranda and Gideon weren't really even mentioned).
This is one of those classes that you really should take while you're at Harvard. Fallon is unbelievably knowledgeable about the material you're learning, and speaks almost 100% off the cuff in hour and a half lectures. The material is not only interesting, but also relevant to real life today. I really enjoyed writing the papers and came out of them feeling like I really learned something. My TF was also pretty great.
This is a terrific introduction do ConLaw and the Supreme Court. It gives a general knowledge of many cases and ways of legal thought. If you're considering law or are just interested in American history, this is a terrific course.
the course will really teach you to understand constitutional law but also just to grapple with judicial issues that you read about in the news. It's a hard course but well worth the effort.
Gov. 1510 addresses material that is very current and compelling, and I would definitely recommend the class.
Taking this class did more to make me understand American society than just about anything else I've done in the past. Even if you're not a social science concentrator, the class is totally worthwhile for the perspective that it grants on the political process and elsewhere.
You will learn a lot in this class; the lectures and sections are fairly intense in terms of needing to focus, but you get a lot out of them.
A great class if you have the patience for it. It would be a shame to take it without giving yourself enough time to do the reading.
This is by far the best class at Harvard for those who are remotely interested in government or law! Professor Fallon is an incredibly engaging lecturer, the section discussions are lively and fun yet still educational, and the reading is intriguing without being overwhelming. This class is well worth the workload and I would highly recommend it to anyone.
This class is really engaging and a great way to get a feel for a law class.
On one hand, I didn't realize how little I knew about the Supreme Court makes decisions until I took this class -- so content-wise, this class makes you a better citizen. The readings are also completely manageable, and I never felt like it was wasting my time (they're all from Fallon's own concise textbook and from a casebook with excerpts from Supreme Court decisions). On the other hand, the grading is ridiculous; it's pretty easy to get a B+, but their expectations are too vague on the first essay for you to expect an A or A- in return for putting in a huge amount of work. I didn't take the final yet because of the bomb threat this year, so we'll see how much they value hard work...
The class was quite interesting from a law perspective, though I found the lectures slightly repetitive if you've done the reading.  Section (where you assess hypothetical cases based on the constitutional framework learned in class) was much more helpful.
This course was impeccable. I am a scientist that was given the opportunity to fall in love with government, politics, and the law.
Try as hard as you can to avoid skipping lecture, as it's a slippery slope once you start.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Fallon is an amazing lecturer, the subject matter is interesting and important, and the course manages to cover a vast amount of difficult material in a short amount of time. It's definitely a challenging course, and the reading can get really heavy, but it's so worth it if you have an interest in constitutional law.
This class is engaging, interesting, and teaches you to think about important topics. It is a lot of reading, and the papers are slightly tedious, but it's generally a good class and I would recommend taking it.
This got me very interested in the situation of American law. I frequently found myself debating with friends in the class on current events and such over dinner/after class. I feel like a more informed citizen-I have a much greater understanding of the issues in play in national news, debates, etc. Fallon is a good lecturer, also; he is very clearly a preeminent expert on the material.
This course is a broad introduction to the field of constitutional law, covering most bases and providing a good sense of the most important issues and arguments. Definitely do as much of the reading as you can, and go to section - I found section to be more useful than lecture in many instances.
Highly, highly recommend this course for anyone who is potentially or very interested in law. Professor Fallon is an outstanding lecturer and goes out of his way to make himself accessible to students for after-class discussions or office hours. The class is well-organized and well-run, section is interesting and helpful, and the reading is very fascinating if you are even remotely interested in the historical progression of law, politics, or contentious issues such as affirmative action, abortion, and the expansion of big government. I went to every single lecture and section and was almost always very excited to hear Fallon and my TF speak.
One of the best courses I have ever taken. Fallon is an incredible lecturer, and his lectures are so fascinating!
This is the best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Learning under Professor Fallon is a real treat.
It's a good class, but like most large lecture classes, it has its flaws. Don't take it unless constitutional law is something that really appeals to you.
I love con law and found this course fun and intellectually exciting. So long as you're interested in the subject this is a fascinating class.
This course may be difficult at times but it's an excellent introduction to law, the American legal system, and a very unique way of thinking. One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
Great course to take for ethical reasoning requirement. The lectures were very engaging. However, really make an effort to do all the readings for lecture because you will learn a lot more. Be engaged in section and start the essays early! If you're not a gov concentrator or interested in law school, make sure to use your TF as a resource for learning how to write the essays well because they're difficult otherwise. This class made me want to go to law school though simply because it was really engaging.
Take this class! Professor Fallon is an engaging lecturer, and the subject matter is a necessary and interesting part of any student's understanding of American history and the role of the Supreme Court in shaping it. The work load is manageable, and grading is fair.
If you have any interest in American politics, take this class. As an international student, I now appreciate why Americans are so obsessed with their constitution. Also, if you enjoy analysing text, this is a fun class! The lectures are brilliant and I looked forward to section every week. A fantastic way to fulfil the ER requirement. Also if you are at all thinking about law school, take this class.
This is a great class - a pretty good amount of work, but very rewarding.  Professor Fallon is a great lecturer, just don't leave before the end of class!
If you don't mind a massive lecture class where much of your experience will be dictated by your section tf and people in your section, it's an interesting class that gives you a good insight into how the Supreme Court works.  Lecture's are too easy to zone out during, and somebody please explain to me why Fallon gets so angry if you discretely leave 5 minutes early but doesn't bat an eye as people show up 10, 20 or 30 minutes late.
Do the reading! The case book may seem daunting but it's generally more interesting than you'd expect, and you don't want to be lost when section rolls around.
Though the lectures might at time feel a little bit dull, and section really depends on the people and might not be that helpful, I am glad I took this class. It is very relevant to the way you think about the United States Constitution and the role of the Supreme court everyday. It is good to be able to watch the news and to actually understand what is going on with what the Supreme Court is doing and the kind of reasoning that went behind their decision. Plus, the material that you read is fascinating and very relevant.
Fantastic class with fantastic Professor Fallon. The assignments are difficult but they make sure you think instead of simply regurgitating information. Sections are wonderful and often involve hypotheticals and group discussions.
It's incredibly difficult, but really fascinating. It's more intimidating in the enormous hall to be learning con law, but Fallon is so good and inspiring.
This class is challenging, asking lots of tough questions about issues that society talks about even to this day: race relations, gender equality, freedom of speech, etc.  But the material is presented in clear outlined ways by both Professor Fallon and the TFs and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a substantial/worthwhile gen-ed, for those thinking about a career in law, and even to people who would just like a course that attempts to take a closer look at the big social and moral questions of history. You will most definitely learn in this course and it will challenge your own beliefs and positions.  It is incredibly worthwhile to take for those of any concentration and students will learn about the argumentative practices in American law and perhaps even garner a new perspective about their own answers to "the big questions."
This was my by far my favorite class this semester, if not my favorite class of all my time at Harvard. Professor Fallon is so incredibly knowledgeable on the subject material and really generates enthusiasm and probes interesting discussion while maintaining a neutral standpoint. If you have any interest in law or attending law school, take this class!!
It's a good course and you'll learn a lot, but go in knowing that it's graded pretty strictly.
Fallon's a good guy. He teaches well, but straight from the assigned readings. It's best to both go to lecture and do the readings, but not necessary.
Professor Fallon definitely teaches you how to think about constitutional law in a new way!
Overall, this was a good class and I feel that I learned a lot from it. However, sections were rather unpleasant. As much as Professor Fallon emphasized that sections should be our favorite part of the class, sections were too large (around 20 people who all want to voice their opinion) and there wasn't enough structure to them. Lectures are interesting but when Fallon opens it up to comments from students, it's always the same few people saying something for the sake of speaking in class rather than having genuinely interesting comments.
This was a good class with a lot of material to learn. The best part is being able to come away with a greater knowledge of the legal side of current politically charged issues.
Don't take this course if you want to get an A. I know almost nobody who got As on any of the papers. In this class, writing a "spectacular" paper translates into an A-. Aside from that, Professor Fallon is clearly very intelligent and knowledgeable, but his lectures are often hard to follow and unnecessarily convoluted. Also keep in mind that you'll be competing with very passionate pre-law students.
This class was so interesting.  THe cases were great adn lecture was never dull.  Professor Fallon is my favorite lecturer at Harvard so far.  He is so passionate about the subject and does a great job explaining multiple sides of the issue.  The grading, however, is pretty rough.  it is not an easy way to fulfill a gen ed.
This class is awesome! So relevant to issues in the world today, and a great introductory survey course. It's taught like a law school class, and you are graded on very little actual work (just two papers and a final), so attending lecture and staying on top of the reading is really important. If you take it as a gen ed, expect to do a little more work than in most ethical reasoning classes, but I think it's definitely worth it!
This is a pretty good class, although I would say that the lectures are sometimes slightly repetitive if you do the readings.
Wonderful course! The teaching staff is incredibly strong, the readings are manageable and enlightening, and the lecture are top notch
Great overview of constitutional law. The major themes in the field are covered in a very organized way, the class itself was also very well organized, and the assignments were totally reasonable. Maybe check it out and make sure it's what you're interested when you shop it, but if you really are interested I total recommend this class.
This course is one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Taught by a Harvard Law icon, the course covers topics such as gay marriage, affirmative action, the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act, and gun rights. Professor Fallon's lectures are insightful, succinct, and provocative, and he solicits questions and comments from students several times each class. There are two short papers (5-7 pages) that provide an opportunity to analyze past cases and apply current doctrine to follow hypothetical cases. In my experience, they were graded very fairly. Sections can be a bit tense, and do require some preparation (doing the readings, at a minimum), but they allow for fruitful discussion on the constitutional and moral questions raised by these cases. Adam Sandel is a fantastic TF (the best I've had in a social science course at Harvard), and we had three in-section debates over the course of the semester that allowed students to play the roles of the plaintiff, defendant and Court Justices. The final exam was made optional due to a bomb threat, so I can't comment on that, but students can bring up to 5 8.5 x 11 inch pieces of paper into the exam with notes on it. The exam is much more focused on analysis and application of doctrine than memorizing case details. In terms of grading, it is fair, but earning an A is not easy. Overall, a really fantastic class that every Harvard student take before graduating.
The readings for homework take longer than expected, and I am not looking forward to memorizing the myriad cases studied, but the value is understanding how the U.S. Supreme Court does its job, which is really interesting and important to understanding how government operates and the many ideals and realities that conflict in our society.
American Constitutional Law is a great class taught by an outstanding professor. It is a comprehensive introduction to constitutional law that is very relevant to America today. It is however very challenging and requires writing in styles that are particular to the field itself.
Great introduction to constitutional law and the ethical challenges that face prospective law students, professors, and practicioners.  Sections can be hit or miss so make sure you get a good TF (Dan Farbman is great).  Don't miss lectures.
This class is extremely interesting and well taught. However, the class feels artificially difficult. Do not take this course if you are looking for an easy gen ed, but do take if you are interested in law as a profession or interested in learning how the Supreme Court functions. This was easily my favorite and least challenging class this past semester, but I would look elsewhere for a more fairly graded course.
Take it when you feel that you are ready to put into the work. It is absolutely amazing to learn about how the Supreme Court make decisions and think like a lawyer. Be prepared for some hard-thinking and hard work.
Professor Fallon is the creme de la creme, and his lectures are worth it. As a Ged Ed, this is on the tougher side, but fully worth it to explore what for me was a brand new area of thinking and analysis. Loved it!
Very interesting and relevant to how the Supreme Court works. Worth understanding and fun to hear Fallon lecture.
This is a great way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed. It's an interesting analysis of our legal system and Prof. Fallon does a great job challenging the systems and pointing out its flaws and merits.
So... This class is everything it sounds like it is going to be:  Pre-Law 101.  I wanted this class to be a litmus test for whether I should do law school and I figured out that I definitely do not want to do law.  That being said, the course itself isn't flawed.  The students tend to be pretty intense in section and in class.  It truly is inspiring to see such passion in your fellow classmates.  While their passion is amazing to see, don't be surprised if your lack of passion is not.  I found it very difficult to get excited about the course material, mainly in the middle, and the only portions I truly enjoyed were the last topics (Gay marriage, affirmative action, etc.) because they were modern.  There are a decent amount of readings, but you can probably get by without reading them.  Grading on papers is pretty tough, so don't take this class if you simply want an A.
A must take course if Fallon is teaching it again.  Truly fantastic.
Amazing class.  Professor Fallon is a rock star--brilliant lecturer.
Outstanding professor. Super interesting class. Highly recommended. Relevant to everyone.
I wasn't even interested in law but I took this class because I was interested in social issues. It was fascinating and one of the best classes I've taken: my favorite class of the semester. Fallon is very sharp and a great lecturer, the material is incredibly interesting, and I felt like I really learned how to think more critically.
This is a great class! Professor Fallon is a great lecturer, and I never left class confused. He's definitely liberal, but he tried to give a balance view of the issues.  The class is graded kind of hard, so definitely put in effort with the papers. Do the reading, but don't stress if you don't because most of the information is reviewed in class.
Keep on top of the readings and be active in section, and this course will be far more rewarding than if you hadn't. Fallon is a master in his field, and you're not gonna get any better as far as a Gen Ed is concerned.
This is by far the best gen ed I've taken. Professor Fallon literally wrote the book on Constitutional Law, and his lectures are awesome. He also hand-picked the TF's, who are all fantastic. The material was very interesting. Take this class!
Great combination of law, politics, and history. The lectures can sometimes be boring only because they're long, and there's a lot of direct overlap between lectures and the reading. It's definitely possible to not do the reading for one week and get everything from it in lecture, and sometimes it can be more helpful to hear lecture first because it makes the reading clearer. In general, interesting class but sometimes tedious. You will learn a lot though, and it helps you to work out your own legal and political leanings.
Absolutely phenomenal!!!
This class was hands down one of the best classes I've taken. Professor Fallon is completely committed to his students' learning, is incredibly intelligent, and chooses the best possible TFs. Take this class to actually learn the constitutional basis behind your opinions on such contentious issues as affirmative action, abortion, and gun rights. Definitely the absolute best way to fulfill ethical reasoning.
I found that I did not get as much out of lecture as I would have liked. Because Fallon wrote much of the material assigned to read (though it definitely reads easily and is a good explanation), I didn't feel that lecture was so different from reading. In general, it's not so much work, but in the week (or two, depending how you work) leading up to the due dates of the papers(2) or final exam, it's a lot more--especially if you're not caught up on the relevant tests or cases. It's not a lot of memorizing--almost all of it is conceptual.
If you want to be a well-informed public citizen, this is the class to take. Professor Fallon is super committed, as is the teaching staff.
I learned more in this class than any other I have taken at Harvard. If you are at all interested in law or government you HAVE to take this class. There is a good bit of reading and it is by no means a slack class, but you will learn so much about the Supreme Court. It is such a fascinating course!
If you're an undergrad interested in law, this course is a godsend. It's a lot of work, though.
If you want to understand why Constitutional law is so fascinating and frustrating, take this course.
It can be easy to conflate moral or political arguments with legal arguments. Even though moral and political arguments underlie much of the law, be weary of doing this as it is not what the course is looking for.
Professor Fallon is a fantastic teacher and human being. Rarely does one of the world foremost constitutional theorists happen to also be a compelling lecturer who makes time to see students. The one thing that makes this course stand out is Fallon's willingness to meet with you individually -- take advantage of this opportunity instead of just going to lecture, though lectures are great as well.
This was a phenomenal course! PLEASE take it. You will emerge a better logical and moral reasoner and you will inevitably become extremely interested in the workings of the Supreme Court if you are not already.
Definitely take this class if you're thinking about going to law school or just want to be more informed about how the supreme court works! I don't think it was life-changing by any means and lecture could get a little dry, but the assignments were interesting, section was great, I learned a good deal, and it's a solid introduction to constitutional law. Also, it's a great way to get your ethical reasoning requirement.
This is a good course - pretty much what you'd expect from it. It works as both a gov course and a intro law course. The 'lecture kids' who keep talking in lecture can get on your nerves and detract from the overall experience, and sometimes lecture can get a bit dry. But there's little else for which to fault this course. Liz Reese is a great TF.
This class provides an excellent background on constitutional history in the United States, and it is a great course for those interested in law school. However, do note that this class unfortunately incorporates some of the failings of traditional government lecture classes, where they are taught in large lectures that are not necessarily at a particularly high level, catering to a few students who aggressively participate in lecture while most sit silently, and a LOT depends on your TF.
This was course was invaluable in deepening my understanding of the supreme court - something I always read about in the media but never have quite fully followed. The readings are not that much (max 100 pages per week) and are usually very lively, especially Scalia's dissents. But I would caution any humanities concentrators, especially history and philosophy ones from taking this course. The course tries to bring in history, but it is done in a very JV manner with little nuance or complexity. The professor encourages students to think for themselves, but in papers for this course I definitely did not see any reward for critical and creative thinking. Most students were just toeing the party line and apparently that was something more worthy than actually engaging more actively with the underpinnings and implications of our readings and of our professor's lecturings. Take the course for the opportunity to read, but be prepared for frustrating times if you actively want to use your mind to its fullest capacities in this course.
If this course is offered again, do not pass up the opportunity. Fallon is incredible (just don't leave lecture early!) and cares a great deal about engaging students in fascinating discussions that truly expanded my understanding of the material/concepts and takes every opportunity to talk with students. I wish I had gone to his office hoursyou should go if you take the course! I heard great things. Fallon ensures the final is fair and you are allowed to create the ultimate cheat-sheet so as to alleviate ALL stress from the experience. Also, the TFs are actually competent unlike many other courses I've taken here. I was hesitant to take a humanities/gov course since I study life sciences, but the TFs are hand-picked from the top students at HLS (so the best of the best) and genuinely care and are very good at what they do. Yes, it does take time to do the readings, which are interesting so I recommendand essay material needs to be well understood; but it's worth it. Go! Add to your study card now.
Take if pre-law because it will prepare you. If not, take purely for the fact that it will assure you in your decision not to be pre-law. Take this course if you want a lesson in analytical reading and focus on strong focus
If you are interested in constitutional law then this is probably the best class you can take in the subject, at any school in the country. Constitutional law is about issues like freedom of speech, etc. approached from a legal, argumentative standpoint. Fallon is a wonderful professor.
This class is a lot of work and the amount of information can be overwhelming at times.
This class is heavy, but good. If you're interested in reading Brown v. Board and debating the Supreme Court's appropriate role in combating de facto vs. de jure segregation, reading Miller v. California and debating the Constitutionality of allowing distribution of obscene materials under freedom of speech, or using District of Columbia v. Heller to understand why the Second Amendment is applied as it is applied, take this course.  There aren't any weekly assignments other than readings and the two papers are fair and straightforward. You can "get by" in this class or you can go in depth and learn (I'm looking at you, pre-law students).  All in all, I'd take it again.
There are a lot of readings for the class and they are all about court cases. As such they are very dry readings for the most part and involve a lot of legal language. I would really only recommend the course if a person is interested in the law.
This is a great intro to Constitutional law. However, this class is only about the Supreme Court and its cases. Don't expect this to be a general law class. Additionally, don't expect a survey of the whole Constitution. You will only focus on Amendments 1, 2, and 14, as well as some of the powers of Congress and the concept of judicial review. Readings are a bit dry but they aren't too long for a law class. The paper assignments are also short and not too tough. Professor Fallon is a great lecturer but he will plow forward talking, so lecture can be a bit hard to sit through. Still, you want to keep up with material, because the exam covers a lot and you need to know specific cases.
The course is really great and gave me a much greater understanding of how constitutional law works and how important a role it plays in our society.
This class is excellent. Professor Fallon is a great lecturer, the issues are relevant, and you come out of it with a much better understanding of how the legal system and the Supreme Court work. It is reading-intensive because you have to read cases each week (which can sometimes be dense) plus some additional reading to explain and clarify what happened in the cases. But it is well worth it and you learn a ton!
This is one of the best courses offered to undergraduates and it is taught by one of Harvard's most renowned professors. It is primarily a law course but it definitely hits themes of government and ethical reasoning. The course is probably less rigorous than a course at the law school, but it nonetheless requires careful readings of the cases and other selections. Professor Fallon is a fantastic lecturer and he loves having students visit him during his office hours. The TFs are also phenomenal as Fallon makes sure to pick some of Harvard Law School's top 3Ls to be TFs for his course. The course will not only give you an insight into how lawyers think, but it will also ask you to reconsider some our nation's most divisive legal, moral, and ethical issues. You'll also get to learn how the Supreme Court works in relation to the pressures and influences of the public and the other branches of government. I would highly recommend this course to any student regardless of their academic background.
This is a great course if you want to come away with a solid working knowledge of landmark Supreme Court cases and how the Court makes those decisions.
This is a phenomenal class. If you have any interest in constitutional law, or if you are thinking about going to law school, I highly recommend this class. It gives you a thorough understanding of many complicated issues of constitutional law and forces you to think critically about issues to which there is no easy answer.
This was a great class. Fallon is awesome, and you learn so much about constitutional law
You will learn a lot from reading the cases but be warned that this course studies the constitution solely from the living constitutionalist perspective. Words like "morality," "justice," and "right" are constantly thrown around in this class without ever being defined which is frustrating for someone who is interested in seriously studying what "justice" or "right" is. The originalist perspective is often only brought up so it can be critiqued. Admittedly, I think Fallon does try to encourage students to consider a more conservative perspective on some issues (which is more than I can say for most professors in the Harvard government department), and he does a great job of encouraging students to contribute to the class. However, I believed he spent several minutes each class lecturing about the problems with the originalist perspective, but he only ever lightly considered the problems with the "moral reading" or the "common law" approach. Furthermore, you will not read The Federalist or other documents concerning the writing and ratifying of the constitution in this class, so you really don't get any perspective on what the Constitution was intended to accomplish. This class often times refers to the Constitution as a "moral document," although I still cannot really tell you what that means, and I highly doubt that the framers saw themselves as establishing a "moral code."  If any of this bothers you and you would prefer your introduction to Constitutional law was not one from this perspective, it might be preferable to read the cases on your own.
Fantastic course! I was fascinated to learn the history of Supreme Court decisions and get a better understanding on current political issues. Not too difficult, just a lot of reading.
Lectures are great but you don't always need to go because of how thorough the readings are. The professor is lovable and brilliant, but TF experiences vary. Mine wasn't the best, as he created a pretty competitive environment for discussion and really fostered the experiences of a few students (i.e. section kids). The readings are no joke, and very hard to absorb on the first time through. Find a reading group and stick with it to save time. Grading on papers doesn't seem to be too tough, but the weekly discussion questions can be annoying and time consuming. This course didn't change my life, but I know a lot of people who consider it to be pivotal in their experience at Harvard. I would recommend it to underclassmen who are eager to learn about the Supreme Court and law in general.
I really enjoyed this class! I had been waiting to take it ever since it was last offered two years ago, and it did not disappoint. Professor Fallon's lectures were usually pretty interesting, and I found myself paying attention much more than I do in most lecture classes.The material was also fun to learn because it applies so much to our lives. There were a lot of readings, but honestly most were unnecessarywe covered all the important cases in class, and the few we didn't are more succinctly described in Fallon's book than in the lengthy case book readings; you could probably get through this class just fine if you only did readings when writing papers. Sections were a very helpful way to delve deeper into the material, but it's unclear if they're supposed to be discussion sections or just information review sections and how exactly we earn our participation credit. The papers were surprisingly enjoyable to write, as the topics were pretty engaging. As a STEM concentrator who doesn't write many papers, I found the ones in this class to be surprisingly easy, and the course staff was more supportive of learning how to write good papers than I've seen in any class since Expos. Highly recommend this class for anyone with an interest in American government and/or constitutional law!
Constitutional law is so much more interesting and applicable to modern government and politics than I thought it would be! Professor Fallon is a great lecturer. I found myself enjoying writing essays arguing my perspective on cases.
This has been my favorite class at Harvard so far. Professor Fallon is phenomenal, the course material is fascinating, and the teaching staff were superb. Be prepared for a lot of reading and critical discussion in section, but if you have any interest in law, the Supreme Court, or the Constitution, this class is a MUST!
As a government and ethical reasoning course, American Constitutional Law does try to incorporate some ideas about the Supreme Court as a government institution and make students think about the role the Supreme Court has as a moral/ethical decision-maker. But I felt this was by and large just a law course that added in government or ethical themes here and there.  The lectures, papers, and exam were mostly focused on case law and interpretive theories for constitutional law.  For instance, we were required to write two papers for the course, and we had a choice between two essay topics for each paper, making four topics total.  Three out of the four topics asked students to evaluate either if a past Supreme Court case should have been decided differently or how a hypothetical future case might be decided, based largely on analyzing precedent cases.  This is not to knock the course in any way; I personally loved the legal focus.  Students should just know what they are getting into when they sign up for the class.
Professor Fallon is one of the greatest professors you'll meet during your time at Harvard. This is by no means an easy class, especially for freshman or sophomores. However, I guarantee that you'll never regret taking this course. If you are thinking about law school, or even the slightest bit interested, this class will teach you volumes about the foundations of the Supreme Court, from major cases that have shaped the trajectory of the US, the way Justices think and decide, how to make great legal arguments, and the relationship between politics and the Courts.
Government 1510 is an excellent class, mostly because Professor Fallon is a witty and interesting lecturer.  The TFs are all law students which is good because they know the material, but may be bad because they are also some of the most busy people around and may not always be fully prepared to lead section.  The material is interesting and the pace and workload are very manageable.  The person who will be happiest in this class is one who has some preexisting interest in the subject matter.
Gov 1510 is great!  It is a terrific primer in constitutional law and American government.  Professor Fallon is an amazing lecturer and is very available to his students.  The reading workload is not insubstantial but worth it if you do it.
I would strongly recommend this course to anyone interested in the Supreme Court and going to law school.
It's a good class, but has a lot of reading
Fallon is great, and he really tries to cover as much as he can. If you like reading cases and learning history, take this course.
This class is amazingly taught and incredibly interesting. You tackle cases that you've heard about through American history, address new subjects that are relevant today, and learn how the Supreme Court works as a whole. Fallon is an amazing lecturer, and really is accessible to students if needed. Would recommend highly.
This class is great! Fallon is a really fun lecturer and he often asks for input from students, which makes the hour and a half go really fast. I wouldn't just take this if you wanted to fill a Gen Ed though, as it'll seem really boring - but if you're interested in con law at all, I highly recommend. Also, make sure you get a good section leader, because that will make or break the class.
Here's what they won't tell you until near the end -- constitutional law is completely made up. The judges do whatever they want; precedent isn't real. And is that a valuable thing to know? Yes. Is it worth a whole semester? Not so much.
Keep up with the course readings and you will get much more out of lecture. Professor Fallon is an incredible lecturer who engages his students in tough questions. Great introduction to constitutional law.
Con Law is a phenomenal course for anyone interested in the nuts and bolts of how the United States functions. Prof. Fallon does an amazing job of distilling some really complex caselaw into the key principles that drive our legal history. Also, the TFs are some of the top students at HLS  really brilliant folks.
If you like to read and you like the Constitution, go for it.
Best class I've taken at Harvard.
Keep up with the readings and go to office hours to make sure you really understand what's going on for the papers!
Really good class, and such a plus that it counted as a gen ed (ER) and gov requirement for me. Just a really solid large lecture class. Prof Fallon is extremely knowledgeable (obviously-he literally wrote the textbook on Con Law!) and seems like a very kind person in general. TFs were all law students, so they knew their stuff. The class had two essays and a final. There was a lot of assigned reading, but it was very possible to skim and pick out the relevant parts. Final was kind of hard, but overall the class wasn't stressful during the semester.
An essential Harvard course for anyone remotely interested in the law or logical reasoning.
This is one of those classes you should take before you leave Harvard, absolutely amazing. I'm applied math but this was my favorite class so far here.The amount of work required is not too significant, however don't just take this as an easy gen ed. The material is incredibly challenging, albeit in a very good way.Professor Fallon is amazing although he might not teach it next year. If he does, take it! If not, still consider it. The TFs are also super helpful and section is practically necessary to get through this.
This course is not for everyone, and is not the right course if you are looking for an easy ER gen ed. But, as someone with a prior interest in government and legal studies, this was the perfect combination of politics, history, law, and ethical reasoning. Keep up to date with the reading. It is a lot, but it is so interesting and worth doing.
The class is amazing; you should definitely take it! The TFs were all great, knowledgeable, and articulate. You will learn a lot.
I got disillusioned by lectures very quickly, I found section to be dull, and I wasn't a huge fan of my TF. It goes downhill with the free speech lectures. The casebook is also ridiculously expensive. I don't think I did this class right -- I let myself get disinterested too easily, but looking back what I learned was pretty cool.
This is without a doubt one of the best classes if not the best class I've taken at Harvard. Never before have I walked out of a class feeling like a better citizen. I know have a command of basic constitutional arguments and definitely understand the American government better than I did prior to taking this class. I also think that this class is applicable to anyone (not just government concentrators).
Great class, lucky to get to listen to Fallon.
This course was so fun! I actually enjoyed taking the final exam. Fallon is a wonderful lecturer (doesn't leave much time for questions though.) Section is a blessing if you have a great TF. You will learn a ton about constitutional law and the myriad ways in which cases are argued and decided. I feel much more prepared to contribute to discussions about the Constitution and its place in American society.
Thoroughly do the readings and ask questions along the ways. Also, try to connect cases to one another earlier on so that you see the "progression" of the law over time.
Probably one of the best courses I've ever taken.
This class was one of the best I've taken at Harvard. I don't study American politics but studying American constitutional law has made me a more aware citizen and better critical thinker. The class touches on a wide range of important and contentious topics, such as affirmative action, freedom of speech, and reproductive rights, and equips us with the the historical and legal background to better comprehend the issues.
Be prepared to read law.
Take this class if you have an interest in American history and the judicial process. Be expected to read a lot of actual Supreme Court decisions and conduct outside research to clarify things. This course is easy to just neglect because there's really no weekly check ins to keep you on track, so a level of self-motivation will be needed. However, it will be difficult to accomplish this if you don't actually enjoy constitutional law, so be wary of that.
Professor Fallon is an outstanding lecturer who makes the class well worth taking if you have any interest in learning about the judicial system. There's a lot of readingmostly lengthy court opinionsbut as long as you can come away a general idea for how certain cases were decided, you'll be fine glancing over some of the readings. Fallon does a great job of explaining the key things to know in lecture, so the readings shouldn't scare anyone away from taking the class.
This a great class for people who are genuinely interested in the law and reading court cases. This is definitely a class that can make or break if you want to law school but be weary of the reading.
I know a lot more facts about constitutional jurdisrpudnce than I did before, and Professor Fallon is very engaged with teaching and lectures. I do, however, have two reservations. First, the class is, for upperclassmen, a bit simple in its methodology I think. That might be good for balancing a course load, but I wouldn't expect revelatory or deep conversations in section. Second, I think the class engages well with a particularly way of thinking about jurisprudence, but I would take something like Professor Unger's Legal Thought Now to complement it.
This is the best class I have taken as of yet. It truly teaches you how to logically reason, not just as a lawyer, but also as a citizen and member of society. The course content requires that you grasp the gravity of legal decisions and their basis in precedent, pragmatism, and future concerns. The readings are challenging at first, but they become easier with practice and have a noticeable impact on improving your writing - you will be interpreting some of the most well-crafted English prose ever written. Although the case book looks intimidating, the reading only takes about 3 hours per class if you take notes - a reasonable amount. Professor Fallon is an amazing lecturer and professor as well. He teaches full time at Harvard Law School and is one of the most prominent legal scholars alive, yet he is remarkably friendly and receptive to students' questions and comments. Although the lectures are long, they can occasionally be quite humorous, and Fallon has excellent stories from his time clerking on the Warren Court. I can't stress enough how fantastic this class was. The class is only offered once every two years; go for it when you have the chance. It's the golden model of a Harvard education.
This is a really unique class, as it's taught like a law class, and gives you a lot of interesting insight into constitutional issues. However, only take it if you have a sincere interest in American government. The readings are quite dense and long.
Great way to get exposed to the Supreme Court. Fallon is an awesome lecturer who explains material in an effective and eloquent way.
Amazing class, Fallon is a great lecturer, sections are super engaging and discussion based, reading are all useful and interesting. You'll learn a lot.
Take constitutional law if you're AT ALL interested in law or the Supreme Court in America! Professor Fallon is wonderful and the course staff (TF's and Peter) are super dedicated to the course. They all know what they are doing and are very invested in helping you learn and succeed. The lectures for the most part were engaging and doing hypotheticals in section was fun! There are section questions due each week, however, I liked that a lot as it made me read and reflect! The papers are very fun to write! My recommendation is to see your Tf beforehand and talk to them about what you are thinking as that helps a lot! You learn so much about this course in regard to history and how constitutional law and argument is very different from everyday political arguments and what makes it so special and unique. The course will always make you reason differently and think more perceptively as you consider the constitution in new light in regard to precedent, structure, and values (moral and institutional). You'll feel a lot more informed after this course as  well, especially regarding matters that carry well beyond your college time! You'll also see how law is both apolitical and very political at times.
I have mixed feelings about Gov 1510. On one hand, we covered an immense amount of important material; on the other, the course was dry and far less exciting than prior Q evaluations would have you believe.
This course will make you realize whether or not you want to go to law school. I went into it thinking I was going to love it, but it turns out I actually found some of the material dull. I am still really glad I took it because it helped me evaluate my life goals, so I would still recommend it to anyone who is thinking about law as a career.
Fallon is a total G who is a constitutional law genius. Watching him lecture and also respond to silly questions undergrads who try to suck up to him in class is highly entertaining
This is an excellent course that is incredibly well-taught. You will come away from the course with a good, but basic, understanding of how Constitutional law operates. While you can get away without doing much of the reading, would recommend doing most of it, as the material is interesting, and the more knowledge you have about individual cases and how they fit together, the better. It is probably not the easiest way to satisfy the ethical reasoning gen ed, but it is probably one of the more interesting and better taught ways.
Be willing to put in time to do all of the readings or lecture will seem like a different language.
This class is amazing. If you are interested at all in law, take it. You will love it.
Great course if you need to fulfill ER! There's quite a bit of material, but it's presented in a manageable and understandable way. The reading is very manageable, and the TFs are really well-chosen (handpicked from the law school).
It has a lot of work with a lot of reading, deals with some very challenging subjects, and can often be arduous with the 90 minute massive lectures twice a week. The section component is personal, but as most students experience, smaller classes tend to be better. This one is no exception.
Fallon is a pretty decent lecturer and provides some interesting, fairly neutral insights to pretty complex issues in American Constitutional Law
This class is brilliant. I loved learning about cases and I think that it really helped me understand what law school classes are like and how to think like a lawyer.
The grading in this class was very arbitrary. The assignments were terribly written. The example essays that were meant to be exemplary, were often horribly written, as if a 5th grader's ability to reason was paired with a high schooler's ability to write. I would be embarrassed to be the author of some of the example essays. Meanwhile, the non-favorites of the class will be stuck with A-/B+, which is most probably the go-to grade when your tf is too lazy to actually read your paper. Yet, lectures were always extremely thought provoking and interesting. It was the structure and grading of the class that was cringe worthy.
This class is fine. Gives a good knowledge of the subject, but I never found myself terribly invested in it.
If you have the opportunity, take this class. The class focuses on topics that have great relevance to present day issues. Professor Fallon is an amazing lecturer who clearly and effectively presents the material. He weaves profound observations and life lessons into his presentations and consistently leaves students inspired. Fallon is approachable and openly fields questions.
Fallon is an incredible professor; while your grade doesn't depend on it, go to lectures. Workload is really light, just two short papers and a final to go with the readings, but grading can be tougher than some other courses. Overall a great class, either as a Gov concentrator/secondary or to fulfill the ER Gen-Ed.
Fallon's lectures can seem slow sometimes, especially if you've done the readings. But overall, this class taught me how to think and I'm glad I took it. It seems like Constitutional law should be cut-and-dry (after all, it's in the Constitution!) but during this class you'll learn just how infuriatingly tenuous the connection can be. Well worth taking if you like having an understanding of what's going on politically.
Take this class! It's a great survey of con law and an introduction to a different way of thinking about political issues. Prof. Fallon is a great lecturer who commands the respect of his students. He is a gem that the Gov department should try to keep. There's a decent amount of reading involved, but nothing unmanageable.
TAKE THIS CLASS IF IT'S OFFERED AGAIN!! It's pretty obvious that a lot of students interested in government take this class, but even if you aren't too interested, it's still worth taking a class with Professor Fallon. He's a very nice man, solid lecturer, and all the TF's he selected know their material. We had two 1600-2000 word papers and one final exam, which we could bring five pages back and front to the exam and use. I did all the readings (definitely not as many as other gov classes, and manageable if you keep up with them), but almost everyone who I talked to didn't do all the readings. The readings are tailored to the lecture, so they definitely helped reinforce the material. It's probably more work than other Ethical Reasoning gen eds, but 110% worth it.
Fallon is a great lecturer and prides himself on the quality of his TFs. This is a very enjoyable course on the whole.  While I kind of coasted by week-in, week-out, you should expect to spend a LOT of time on the papers (and exam prep obviously). Nothing spectacular, but the timing and combination of the two can make life hard. A fairly difficult class to take freshman fall, but very enriching!
Very interesting class. This knowledge is essential
I absolutely loved this class: one of the best that I've taken at Harvard. Professor Fallon is so cool to learn from given his extensive background and accomplishments. The course really taught me a lot about current societal issues and made me a better informed citizen. This course does require focus and effort and is by no means easy but it is absolutely worth taking!
This course is very hard, but definitely worth it. It's difficult to get an A on the average Harvard grading scale, but this doesn't really matter with how much you will learn.
This class is a gem. Please take it if youre interested in gov, politics, or ethical reasoning, or law. I'm not from America but still enjoyed it. Fallon is incredible. Don't be intimidated by the case book, it's awesome
This class is completely manageable and will make you a better citizen (of this country or whatever country you are a citizen of)! There is no reason not to consider taking this class no matter what concentration you are.
It's a law class masquerading as a Gen Ed class. Don't let that deter you from taking it; I learned a lot from it, and it helped open my horizons.
This class was great. IF you do all the readings and then go to class you'll do fine. The papers and exams are pretty straightforward and just require application of cases that you learn about in the course. Moreover, Professor Fallon is an engaging lecturer and if you like to participate this is the course for you.
Do not take this course. The lectures are terrible and the amount of time you will spend will not be worth it. Take any other class. Don't take this for a Gen Ed for sure. This course made me not want to concentrate in Gov anymore. Terrible assertions are made in lecture and remain unchallenged making for an uncomfortable and hostile environment.
Hands down best class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Fallon is an incredibly engaging lecturer. He is also clear and articulate and makes sure you can grasp the material before moving on to the next chapter. The assigned papers were actually really fun to think about! The course definitely made me appreciate how unique our constitution is, as well as the limitations of judicial review. The course touches upon many key themes including 1st Amendment protection, the Commerce Clause, Equal Protection, Due Process, and 2nd Amendment rights. The casebook is expensive, but worth the purchase (or rental)! Definitely take this class if you are considering law school. The TFs are all HLS students and are very willing to share their experiences applying to law school, taking the LSAT, as an HLS student with you.
Great class- do the reading on time, take really good notes on it, and you'll be set for the papers and the final.
This is not an easy Gen Ed by any means but it's still an amazing class. The reading is dense but not impossible and really helps with the understanding of the material. The essays do ask for a lot, but are a great way to show off how much you've learned.
I loved this course. I think it's a necessary course for anyone who wants to be a better citizen and more informed about how Con Law works/even how lawyers think in general. This course will make you a better thinker and reasoner. Make sure to go to lecture, review the material closely before you write essays, and this course is manageable and definitely a class you can take a lot away from.
Fallon is a fantastic lecturer, and section is generally a pretty interesting discussion as well. Definitely take this class if you want to figure if law school is something you might be interested in -- it's structured just like a law school class.
This course is very valuable if you are willing to do the reading.
I have had friends tell me that this is their second favorite class at Harvard, and I can see why. The material is extremely interesting, but there is a lot of material. In addition, be aware that Fallon does encourage students to speak during class, but that may lead to the same people who speak during class and go to his office hours having an outsize voice in the course. Still, I deeply enjoyed the class and encourage anyone who wants to fill Ethical Reasoning in a rigorous way to take this class. That said, be aware that the students of this course during class discussions tend to hold a certain orthodox viewpoint on many salient issues.
This class is a must if you are a gov concentrator or considering law school.
Take it! Professor Fallon is amazing, and you don't have to be a lawyer-in-training to get something substantial out of the class.
Lectures are interesting, but since there are only 2 papers (no midterm) due all semester, there isn't much motivation to go to class. Luckily my TF was great and inspired my intellectual activity. But we'll see how the final goes.
Lectures are great- if you go to every lecture and take good notes, you should be able to understand all of the legal principles covered. Sections have the potential to be good with the hypotheticals, though in my section we usually just ended up reviewing lecture (which was helpful but not very fun). You will come away knowing so many shocking stories about what the Court has allowed (or not) and the reasons they gave for doing so. It really puts the entire legal/governmental system in a new perspective.
Professor Fallon is a brilliant teacher and a great lecturer. The textbook is very expensive, although you can find a previous edition for significantly less money. A great course if you are thinking about law school or an ER requirement.
This is a great class! If you are interested in law or the constitution, take it. It is not an unmanageable workload, and the time you put in pays off
Make sure that you attend office hours and get a firm understanding of concepts before essays. The readings seem unmanageable sometimes, but the more you read, the more helpful lecture is because Fallon basically summarizes and breaks down the readings into a more digestible form. Some TFs are more helpful than others in terms of giving you good practice with hypothetical cases for exams. If you have any interest in law, this is a great class.
I'm a senior, and this has definitely been one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard so far. There's obviously a lot of reading, and the essays can feel tough (but are by no means unreasonably hard), but overall I feel like I'm leaving this course having learned quite a lot. It's even made me start thinking about applying to law school, which I hadn't been considering at all prior to taking the course.
There's a lot of material to cover but it is very manageable, especially if you pay attention during lecture. Fallon did a great job selecting TFs. You'll come away with a much better understanding of con law and the Supreme Court.
This is a very good class if you're actually interested in Constitutional Law. Lecture was a little dry, but Fallon is clearly knowledgeable and interesting to learn from. My section was the best academic part of my fall, though feedback from friends in other sections wasn't quite as enthusiastic. People kind of freaked out about the amount of reading, but honestly it's not a huge deal. Did very little of it but still learned the cases and was able to do well on the papers without going back and reading 1000 pages. Exam was also totally reasonable to prepare for. If you would be excited to learn thoroughly about the Supreme Court's role in several important aspects of Constitutional Law, take this class.
Pay attention and go to lecture
This class is challenging but rewarding. Readings are manageable and the TFs are great. The grading on the papers is fair to tough, but there are no surprises in this class in general. Definitely take this class if you're considering law school.
This is an awesome class especially if you are considering going to law school. If Fallon teaches it again take it! It is the best way to get the ER Gen Ed.
This is a challenging course, do not take it lightly and really make sure you stay on top of the material from the very beginning. Maybe even make a timeline of the most important cases as you go on, that way you keep everything in logical order.
I think Professor Fallon and the material of this course are so engaging and an amazing introduction to the history of political, economic and social issues of our country as debated by the Supreme Court.
This course was a great introduction into constitutional law and the Supreme Court.  Take this class if you're thinking about law school.
This class really gets you to think. Fallon is a pretty boring lecturer, but the section component of the course is fantastic. You have to really really be into the topic of the class to enjoy it--if you don't, it's hell.
Take this class, you learn a lot about an interesting subject. Professor Fallon is great, and he cares. The material can be a bit unorganized, and section is dull (isn't it always though...), but the Casebook is excellent and imparts the material well. Another issue is that the two papers don't test much of the material, so studying for the final means reviewing material you haven't looked at since September. But you get 5 double-sided cheat sheets so it's not too bad. If you're interested in this subject, take this class.
The class is an interesting and quite challenging introduction to Constitutional Law. Professor Fallon is often quite interesting, but far too often, his lectures drag on interminably as he dives into detailed discussion of doctrines and talks for more than an hour at a time. At times, it felt like the teaching got in the way of a really interesting subject matter.
This class is a lot of work with not a lot of reward. By the end, I do know a lot about specific court cases and results which is important, but overall, unless you are absolutely interested in Constitutional Law, I would not take this course.
I highly recommend this course if you're interested at all in law, American politics, or arguing well about some of the most important questions in our current political system--from gun rights and gay marriage to the First Amendment and the powers of Congress. It's a great course for learning to think critically and analytically, and the topics and section were really engaging.
This is a great course! The material is super interesting and it's really exciting to learn about all the cases because they are all cases that one way or another changed our country and/or set the stage for the years to come. I really enjoyed learning how to think like a lawyer. Furthermore, Professor Fallon is an amazing professor who really cares about his students. However, lectures are a bit long.
Expect this to be a course that is very similar to a law class, and it may be difficult and dry at times, but it is rewarding to see how much you learned in the end. I personally did not like this class and it helped me to realize that I would not like to pursue law in the long run, but I think it is good exposure to have if you are considering going into law. Definitely don't take it as an easy Gen-Ed!
This class is listed as a Gen Ed, but even Fallon admits its not that much of one. I truly enjoyed the class in the end. You should take the time to read the material and attend lecture. Lecture definitely solidifies the concepts in your mind and you get to hear Fallon's take on things. Something that helped was looking at the syllabus and understanding from the beginning what concepts will be tackled. You should go talk to your TF about the papers and understand that the sort of thinking in ConLaw is very very logical. If you work hard, you'll do great and be really happy with what you learn.
This class was awesome--I learned so much, but the grading can be very harsh. It definitely varied amongst TF's, which is kind of unfair.
You will find out how little you initially knew about key issues like freedom of speech, affirmative action, and equal rights.
Best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Fallon is a great professor and he really does go out of his way to find the best TFs possible. The material itself is surprisingly relevant to the real world. The two papers are thought provoking, but not difficult; the final was relatively painless. Highly recommend.
This course was extremely interesting, and a wonderful way to have an experience that can help you to decide long-term goals by giving you a glimpse into the law school experience. If you're considering law school, this is a very interesting and good course for you!
Take the course.  It is extremely applicable to your life.  The first lecture with Fallon seems dry but after that they get more interesting (especially if you do the reading!) and he brings a dry witty humor to the class.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Fallon and the TFs are sensational. Gives you a lot of relevant knowledge. I thought I would hate ER but instead it was my favorite gen ed, all thanks to this wonderful class. Would wake up every Thursday looking forward to section... that should give you an idea of how great it was.
Reading group!
Be sure to go to lecture and pay attention. Professor Fallon is one of the best lecturers you will have during your time at Harvard. Really engage with the material and think deeply about the cases.
This is a great course. You will learn far more than you ever thought possible about constitutional law, as well as experience as shift in thinking about how politics and justice interact through history.
This is a great class. Anyone interested in the law or US politics should take this course. And the fact that it counts for a gen ed is a bonus!
Great introduction to Constitutional Law. Use Professor Fallon and the teaching staff as resources. They make themselves available, so take advantage of it.
I adored this course. If you think you might want to go to law school, take it. Not only because of the exposure to the content but because of the exposure to an HLS professor and an impressive crop of HLS students who serve as the teaching staff. It is a wonderful course with great lectures and fascinating content.
This class is a great introduction to constitutional law that also fulfills the ethical reasoning gen ed. Professor Fallon is an amazing lecturer, he breaks down complex and confusing arguments so they're easy to follow and he really makes the material interesting.
One of the best classes that I (a senior) have taken at Harvard. Fallon is a fantastic lecturer, the TFs are excellent, and the class covers very important and pressing issues in politics and the judiciary today. The class is definitely demanding, but worth taking for all concentrators.
This class covers many of the landmark cases. I can read the news now, and I know what people are talking about!
Great class; definitely take it if it is offered again! Prof. Fallon is a great lecturer
The sections and the hypos are something to look forward to.
This class will leave you with a good deal of knowledge and a new perspective on the judicial branch. The content is for the most part very enjoyable and applicable to life. That being said, I did all of the readings, which I think is the best way to get a lot out of the class. If you don't plan to put the work in, it may not be worth it, although Fallon is a great lecturer, I think the real value of the class for me was getting to read supreme court decisions first-hand with the guidance of the course to help with putting them in perspective of the court's workings. Don't be put off by the huge book, it's not actually a ton of reading, and it's well-selected.
This class reaffirmed my desire to be a lawyer someday. Always raised very interesting issues to think about, Prof. Fallon was a great lecturer, and section discussion was always captivating. In general, harder than most classes I have taken at Harvard, but well worth the experience in my opinion. The type of detail-oriented critical thinking required uses a unique part of your brain that you don't get in many classes, whether you're a science or humanities concentrator.
This class is an absolute gem. You learn about all the major cases of Supreme Court history but also cover so many overlooked cases that still have profound effects on American society. The readings can be difficult week to week and you are expected to deliver strong and cohesive arguments in your papers, but you will emerge from this class a much stronger student of constitutional history and will be more prepared to handle debates about almost any issue.
Very challenging, requires a lot of time if reading and writing are not your strongest subjects. Don't let "section kids" get in the way of your learning
I took this course as a Gen Ed, which was, frankly, a mistake. The class, while super interesting, is filled with people who are taking as a pseudo-pre-law course, and take it incredibly seriously, so if you're not ready to put in an intensive work, I would recommend against it. Also, the grading feels arbitrary and is often pretty brutal.
hard for a gen-ed
This is an amazing course. If you are at all interested in law, you will love it. It is incredibly interesting material, and the first class I have taken that I felt like I walked away with actual, applicable skills. I now know how to read Supreme Court opinions, and evaluate Constitutional arguments (especially from politicians).
This class requires you to not only understand the material but be able to give nuances, thoughtful answers to hypotheticals and paper questions. Not your ordinary GenEd class
An absolutely engaging class which forces students to develop their argumentative skills. Readings were light but informative and lectures and sections were enthralling. There was never a dull moment in this class.
It's not an easy class, but it's a good class. It's worth it for Fallon alone.
I would unconditionally recommend this course. It is interesting and enjoyable in a way that few classes at Harvard really are. Anyone with the slightest interest in how the American legal system resolves its biggest issues should take this course. Overall, this is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard - if not the best, then certainly in my top 3.
This course is a wonderful introduction to constitutional law and legal studies in general. I'm fairly certain that I have never heard anyone explain fine legal distinctions so clearly as Prof. Fallon did. The course's emphasis on "thinking legally" (i.e., basing evaluations on an objective treatment of the law rather than subjective interpretations of the world)  was a refreshing alternative to the norm.
Go to all of Professor Fallon's lectures, and read all of the cases!  Together, the lectures and the language of the cases will not only enable you to understand constitutional argumentation but to participate in it.
Take it.
Certainly take this if you're considering law school.  Take it anyway if you're not.  Makes you understand important cases and legal issues beyond the simple good or bad.
The class was fascinating, and I learned a lot about the Supreme Court that is not obvious at all (making it more interesting).  Some aspects of doctrine and Court decisions are very frustrating and seemingly political, which makes the course more valuable as well.  Finally, I need to caution future students of the course: The way we go about learning the material is truly fascinating and a real mind warper in some cases, but you need to know ahead of time that it is quite difficult stuff and not for the faint of heart.  In my opinion, definitely worth the work!  It's a course you can feel real good about completing, and you'll find that the stuff you've learned comes handy in all sorts of conversations outside of class.
A lot of people I talked to liked this course, but I did not. For that, I will recommend it with reservations. If you like constitutional law and history, this is a good course, though I felt that in many ways it was not well-conveyed by the professor nor the TFs.
It will make you want to go to law school!
This course is great for anyone who is thinking about applying to law school. It provides a great background in Constitutional Law.
The Supreme Course.
It is a substantial amount of work but it is worth it.
Take this class before Obama pillages Harvard of another brilliant and impassioned lecturer!  Or maybe we should hope he goes to DC?
Hard
This is a great class with a great professor. The class is large and therefore somewhat impersonal, but the classes are enjoyable to attend and thought provoking.
one of the best classes I've taken here
I would only recommend this course to people with a somewhat serious interest in law-- the material isn't easy and I don't think people who approached it casually would really enjoy the class.
Take this class.
This course is a great introduction to the study of law. It could be helpful in deciding on law school, and definitely is a good review of U.S. government and history.
Take this course if you want to learn a new way of thinking about all sorts of questions, whether legal, moral, or political.
No other course I've taken at Harvard, aside from perhaps American Economic Policy, has so well informed me about the laws and government that affects my day to day life.
Make sure you get a good TF.  It can make or break your grade.
A class definitely worth taking, if only for the fact that Professor Fallon is a great professor. Anyone thinking about law school might also want to take this course.
Be prepared to learn the Justices' arguments in the cases thoroughly, to talk about the material and formulate and articulate your own positions based on the courts interpretation of different rules and tests.
This is one of the best classes at Harvard.
It's a wonderful class if you're unfamiliar with the basics of constitutional law and willing to put up with the large lecture format.
Great subject material...really makes you think.Not a lot of people are necessarily cut out for it, and if you don't keep up with it, then you won't get much out of it.
Interesting material and not a lot of work.
This course is a LOT of work, but you do learn quite a bit about our court system and the major cases in US history.  Get ready for a ton of dense reading.  I hope they improve the section component.  The good thing is that this material is very applicable to real life, and it's all good stuff to know.
Take it, even if you aren't a Government concentrator. As a citizen of whatever country, this is one of the more important classes you can take in college.
Constitutional law is a rigorous but rewarding class which really does provide students with an excellent foundation in judicial doctrine, history and thought.
It is arguably the best class you will take at Harvard.
Best Harvard course.  The material itself, but more importantly, the philosophical approach to it was AMAZING.  If you are at all interested in the practice of constitutional law (and arguably, law in general), not taking this course would be criminal.
It is a very interesting course that gives you a good look at American legal history and the issues facing our Supreme Court.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.Brilliant, exciting, joyous, dynamic, current--every praise I could give, I'd give. Professor Fallon makes the Commerce Clause (which I'd previously thought would be dry) come alive. A million thanks for inspiring me to study the law.
Grading is brutal
Excellent class, incredible professor, amazing TFs, interesting materials, engaging and exciting lectures. Pretty much the best class I have taken at Harvard
Something you need to know! A fun and painless class.
Definitely a class worth taking no matter what.
I can only vouch for Fallon, but I will say that he is one of the best teachers I have ever had.
It's an interesting overview of case law
It is a fun survey of Constitutional law, but be prepared to write a lot.
This class is fun and informative.  Great way to get excited about constitutional law!
difficult, but worth it. incredibly interesting and well taught
I would advise students to finish their essays early and get their TF's feedback.  Especially with the issue spotter questions, this can be tremendously helpful.
Dick Fallon is one of the best professors I have had at Harvard.
A "can't miss" course for anyone interested in the subject.  Fallon is an incredible prof, and really makes the material come alive
Get ready to work hard, but you HAVE to take this class if you get the opportunity. Richard Fallon is reason enough.
be ready to realize you're not actually good at analyzing and writing. otherwise, it's very interesting and you learn a lot about the legal system, the supreme court, the evolution of the court, and american history in general.
It's a lot of work, but it is worth it.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard. Take it! Take it!
This class is a great opportunity to learn from a brilliant mind.
This course will help determine whether or not you will find the study of law worthwhile and engaging.  The 90 minute lectures are difficult to stay awake through, particularly after lunch.  This is not due to Professor Fallon, whose lectures are well-prepared and passionately delivered.  It is imperative to stay up on the course material, otherwise you will be lost.  The cases take sometime to read, though the assignments are small.
Very interesting course. So much pertinent information for today's world. Great course if you are considering law school. Good course if you are just interested in the constitution or law in general.
If you have any interest in the law whatever, take it, take it now.
Definitely take this course if the law interests you at all, or if you just want to learn about a real-world systematic way of addressing difficult moral and political questions.
This class really makes you think, but you have to be able to think logically.  Go in with an open mind.  And pay attention during the Roe v. Wade lecture.
Great Class!
The best class I've ever taken at Harvard.  Changed the way I think about our country.  Made me proud to be American.  Fuck yeah!
This class was one of the best I've taken at Harvard. It was difficult, but none of the work was annoying. I was inspired to do the work, which is the way a class should be. I also found that the subject material will continue to serve me even outside the classroom. This was a great class that I recommend with enthusiasm.
This course is a must for anyone who is interested in law, thinking about law school, cares about national issues like abortion and gay marriage, or just wants to take an amazing course. Professor Fallon brings the perfect combination of law school style teaching with a collegiate touch (i.e. no cold-calling, but more than enough room to participate should one wish to do so). Both the section and lecture components were incredible.
Guaranteed to have quality hand-picked dedicated TFs; Professor is interesting and passionate; great opportunity to receive well-developed feedback and develop analytical skills
This class is a great introduction into Constitutional Law, I can't recommend it enough - Professor Fallon is simply awesome.
If you have any interest in Constitutional Law, this class is great! And if you want to go to law school, this class prepares you to handle cases, make a legal argument, and write memos or briefs.
The course is interesting and well-taught. It is even fun at times. Prof Fallon is an amazing Professor and one learns a great deal about constitutional law.
It is one of the best classes I have ever taken.
Very good class with a world-class professor - don't miss out on it!
This class was a very interesting and in-depth look at important and relevant constitutional issues ideal for anyone with an interest in law, whether it be merely academic or from a potential career exploration point of view.
The lectures are fantastic, but take good notes for the final.
This might be the best class you take at Harvard. It is truly a pleasure and a privilege to learn constitutional law from Professor Fallon.
It is a good course, but I have been told that Professor Fallon is no longer teaching it, which is a major loss.
This class is taught as closely as it can be to a law school class, without the Socratic method. It is a good class to take if you are considering law school after graduation.
only if you find the law interesting
Almost like a history class because you learn so much about the time that the court decisions were made and what society was like at that time. Very interesting class.
This class is amazing. Professor Fallon is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard. The lectures are fun and interesting and is a great way to explore law.
Amazing class to learn from a fantastic professor, learn about law argumentation and a new set of analytical skills.
This is a difficult course but it is absolutely worth taking during your time at Harvard.
This course felt like what I came to Harvard to do.  It was singularly intellectual and challenging, taught by an extraordinarily dynamic and passionate professor, and tested my best powers of logic and critical thinking.  I'm a more-informed American, and a better citizen, for having taken ConLaw.
I highly recommend this course to those considering pursuing an area of law.  This course opened my mind to how legal text gets interpreted and I now understand the issues raised by our sometimes ambiguous U.S. Constitution.
Terrific course with one of Harvard's best professors
This course is really awesome.  The lectures can be a little hard to keep up with, due to the quantity of material, but the class is well worth the time.
Takes a very interesting look at how our country works, and what role the Supreme Court and the Consitution have had in shaping our nation.
Professor Fallon is AMAZING.  Take it.
Fun and interesting but not easy.
You must take this course! One of the best two or three i've taken at Harvard (and i'm a Senior). Even if you're not interested in law school, it's still fascinating. If you are interested in law school, DO NOT MISS.
My enthusiasm for recommending this course is so great, that if you took all of the rum produced annually by the Bacardi Rum factory and turned it into enthusiasm, it would still only be a proverbial drop in the proverbial barrel.
A good thermometer for whether or not you'll enjoy law school, not because it's exactly like law school (it's probably a lot easier than law school), but because Fallon is very good at stressing both the technical and philosophical elements of practicing law and submitting constitutional arguments. You really get a sense of how legal argument differs from other disciplines.
It's a lot of material to keep up with.I recommend always doing readings before class because it makes it much easier to understand things and keep up.
Strongly recommended if you are considering law, as Fallon and the TFs can serve as mentors along the way.
Professor Fallon is a rockstar. This class really opened my eyes to an area of thought I knew nothing about!
This is an excellent class with well-thought-out assignments and a fantastic teaching staff. Constitutional law is a great topic that's highly relevant to contemporary life, and this course does a great job of making it accessible to undergraduates without sacrificing intellectual rigor.
This is a terrific class and you will learn a lot. But it is difficult, and you must do all the reading, and the grading is tough. I think every student should be required to take this
This is an incredible course that will give you a broad view of fascinating cases from American history. It makes such a difference to be able to understand the intricacies of Roe v. Wade or Brown v. Board of Education and really helps you think about current day politics in a different way (Healthcare and the Supreme Court, Gay Marriage - both were discussed in detail). Professor Fallon is an engaging lecturer and somehow manages to keep this large class intimate.
TAKE IT. Professor Fallon is an amazing lecturer. He takes sometimes dry, musty constitutional language and makes it come alive. Don't be intimidated though by the "law school professor" lecture style - he is a sincerely nice person when you talk to him. If you have any interest in the topic at all, take this course. You will also come out with a much better knowledge of your own rights and freedoms.
Don't take this class if you're not up for a good fight, but if you are, it's a really fun time. Professor Fallon is literally one of the best and his team of TFs are stellar. No better way to really sink your teeth into some of the most important Constitutional debates of our time and in the past.
Don't miss lecture! There's a lot of reading, and the lectures will guide you on which cases are the most important to focus upon.
This is a fantastic introduction to American constitutional law and to law in general.  A must for anyone interested in government/judiciary and for anyone considering law school.  Having been through law school (in a different country), the course is a fair reflection of the type of material/work you will encounter at law school.
hard grading on papers but a great class overall
Fallon is a great professor, but lectures can get pretty dry/long. TFs are truly wonderful and Fallon goes out of his way to make sure each TF really knows their stuff.
Fallon's lectures are excellent.  He gets emotionally involved in the material, but it adds to the lecture.  If you are interested in the legal system, the law, or the Constitution - you MUST take this class. If you aren't, don't bother.
This is truly a great class. The professor's lectures are really a blast and the course is fantastic for anyone at all interested in law or US history.
The grading was particularly tough for a Gov class, but the lectures and sections were enjoyable. As an elective, it was substantially harder than expected, but a good intellectual experience.
This course was simply flawless. It gave me a reason to wake up. Even if you aren't an aspiring attorney like myself, the class was enjoyable for everyone. Fallon is a professor who received an enthusiastic applause after every lecture. Those who criticize the course either got a poor grade or thought the course was too much work. It's worth it, so don't spend hours on end looking up Q-guide scores. Just take it.
Richard Fallon is an incredible professor--it's an experience just to share a lecture hall with him twice a week. I found the section component of this course weaker, but all in all it was a fantastic experience. I'd highly recommend it!
This class was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard and I think everyone should take it. Professor Fallon is so incredibly liberal that it's ridiculous (a class taught by a libertarian would be taught a lot differently), but at least he prefaces his opinions with "I think." And he's hilarious and very likable. I still loved the class as a very conservative/libertarian student. It's not easy, but if you are passionate about American history, politics, government, or political philosophy, it's not that hard because it's incredibly interesting. I learned so much and changed my mind on a variety of different political issues. Take this class!!! It's so worth it and it's really not that much work at all...you don't have to do the reading if you don't want to!
Take it. Fallon's lectures are worth attending.
This class gives the student a solid base in the study of law and is taught by one of the best professors you will find at the institution.  Please take this course and be ready to learn.
Professor Fallon is the man. Lectures are very thought-provoking and interesting. This is much more than the simple memorization of countless Supreme Court cases. Highly recommended.
Professor Fallon's lectures are extremely entertaining. The material is very thought provoking, and you will learn a lot about the Constitution and lots of quirky American cases, as well as constitutional, legal debate.
This class is awesome! Fallon is amazingly articulate, so lecture is very enjoyable. Be prepared for a lot of reading and studying for the final, but the essays are really fun so that is a break.
Professor Fallon is one of the most genuine professors I've ever met, and he really wants the students to learn and to understand. This course has taught me a whole different way of thinking. Though I've always known that some issues are "constitutional issues," I never really understood what that meant; now I do.
This class is amazing - definitely a must-take. This was the class where I had the experience during reading period of walking in and realizing "this is the type of class I came to Harvard to take." It's hard, and it's difficult to learn to "think" like a constitutional scholar, but the material is so relevant to life outside Harvard and Fallon is the type of professor you imagine taking classes from.
Constitutional law with Fallon is a great course. Workload is fair (not bad) and very manageable. No midterm, final and two short papers are the requirements. You are allowed to take several pages of notes with you to use on the final. The paper topics were interesting and easy to write about. The lectures with Fallon are very good and the section leaders are some of the most accomplished TFs in any class I have taken in four years at Harvard. I actually enjoyed and looked forward each week to discussing the cases in section.  I would recommend this class to all interested students.
If you are pondering whether or not law school is on your horizons, take the course for an insightful experience to the field of the rule of law and our nation's current judicial doctrine to all the pertinent issues of our society.
1510 is a great intro con law class. Professor Fallon is very engaging and makes the course enjoyable. Whether or not you want to go to law school, I highly recommend the course if you have any interest at all in the Constitution or the Court.
One of the most enjoyable and thought-provoking classes I've taken at Harvard, and this is a science major writing this.  Highly recommended for people considering law school or just interested in the Supreme Court in general.  There is a lot of somewhat dense reading, but try to do as much of it as possible, since lecture and section are much better when you understand what's going on.
This is a wonderful course. It was not quite the life-changing course that I expected from reading the previous year's CUE guide, but it was an important one, and one that forced its students to wrestle with genuinely complex questions in a way that goes beyond the usual superficial approach. If Prof. Fallon gets his act together and gets this course approved for Gen Ed credit -- and frankly, it is inexcusable that he didn't do so this year -- then this course would be an extremely worthwhile way to knock out a Gen Ed requirement.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. Lots of people say that in lots of Q guides, but it is actually true in this case for the following two reasons: first of all, if you have interest in Con Law, it is a phenomenally well-done introduction to the subject, and you will leave the course with a great introductory knowledge. Secondly, if you have any interest in either American government or the idea of American citizenship, understanding the Constitution will fundamentally change your perspective on the other things you study, and on your general awareness of the structures around you in daily life. This sounds like hyperbole, but it truly isn't. Take this course.Furthermore, I would not be afraid to say that this class is the type of class you come to Harvard for: all-star professor who really does care about undergrads, GREAT tfs, and a chance to learn something that many undergraduates will never even touch. Great if you're thinking about law school, and great - probably even better - if you aren't.
You should read everything to get the most out of the class. Fallon is amazing and inspiring but the reading load is substantial and the essays are challenging.
This class is accessible to all students and is arguably one of the most rewarding courses any and all students can take as an undergraduate here at Harvard. It offers discussions on issues relevant to everyone from a rigorous, but manageable way.
if you're considering law school, take this.
Great class if you're interested in constitutional law. Pretty difficult to get an A in, but I found it engaging enough that the tough grading was worth it.
This class rawks. It really changed the way I thought about the Constitution and the Supreme Court.
Really challenging, but incredibly interesting as well.
This class gives you a thorough understanding of how the Supreme Court thinks and writes, and also the constitutional tradition and culture of this Nation. Richard Fallon is an interesting professor who provides deep insight into legal doctrine and tradition that he makes all this even more interesting than it already is. I would strongly recommend this course, but also add that it requires thorough thinking, especially when the kind of essays you write in this course are different from the kind you write normally.
It's a great class, especially if you're interested in law or thinking about law school. But the grading is notoriously hard and you really have to work for your grade in this class.
This course is very good if you do the readings from the casebook and are interested in con law.  It is much less interesting if you don't do the readings.  The final is challenging but manageable.  Don't be intimidated by the know-it-alls in section!
It's a great course with fascinating material. Very demanding of a college student, especially with how in depth the course readings are, and how much time they require. The writing assignments are difficult if you have no background writing legal briefs, which you probably won't because you're a college student.
If you have not taken constitutional law, you have not lived. You must take this course!
Take this class.  You will not regret it.
Work hard. Its hard.
Keep up to date with the readings because it all meshes together
If you are at all interested in law then definitely take this course!
This class is a lot of work. Though the material is interesting, the final is very hard if you haven't done all or most of the reading. Lectures are sometimes a bit rambling. Also many of the people in this class are taking it as their most serious class and if you are not, it can be difficult. If you don't have a government background or an interest in going to law school, you may feel out of place in this class.
If you have any genuine interest in constitutional law, you should absolutely take this class (and read the cases!).  Professor Fallon is incredibly knowledgeable; his lectures are fascinating but also admirably balanced and nuanced in dealing with controversial issues.
ConLaw was the most thrilling intellectual experience of my time at Harvard. It was absolutely phenomenal in every respect. Richard Fallon's lectures are not just effective and clear, but frequently spellbinding. His lecture on abortion rights was probably the most stimulating hour and a half of my life, and some of his lectures on equal protection were inspiring. (I actually began recording them halfway through the course so that I could listen to them later.) He is without question I think one of the best teachers in the university.ConLaw is also great for giving law school a test run: You read case law, apply it to fact patterns, and generally come to understand how the law works. I went in to the class not wanting to go to law school at all, but left secretly aspiring to be a federal judge. It's also important, I think, to get a grasp on how law works, and the class is good for that. It's easy to have a general sense of how the presidency and Congress work, but it takes some level of specific training to understand what happens in the third branch of government. The class did a great job preparing you to do thatI know feel qualified to read Supreme Court opinions in important cases and be able make sense of them.The material is fascinating, though sometimes very challenging. ConLaw in a lot of ways is sort of a class in applied philosophy, which I thought was very cool, but there are few clear answers. You have to know the case law very well to apply it effectively to issues. Last: The casebook you need to buy for the class is enormous and imposing (see it here: http://www.amazon.com/Constitutional-Law-Comments-Questions-American/dp/0314904689). Carrying it around publicly or leaving it out in your room will no doubt awe your friends and love interests with the might of your intellect. Huge bonus.
If you're interested in law, it will be fantastic.  If not, it will be difficult but worthwhile.
This is a fantastic course taught by a very famous and extremely knowledgeable professor. It is not easy but if you put in the effort it is more than worth it. The lectures were really incredible and the teaching staff is fantastic. Section is actually really engaging and is refreshing relative to what you often find in most courses here.
Great class! If you are interested in Constitutional Law, than this is an amazing introduction. Professor Fallon is very passionate and an interesting lecturer.
This course is awesome--Professor Fallon is a great lecturer, the workload isn't too bad and everything you do and read is actually useful, section is so good I wish it was longer, and you learn a ton. This is what every course should strive to be like.
its definitely one of the best courses i have taken. there is not too much reading but it is dense and difficult. assignments are tough but fun (at least for me). the level of intellect and analytical skills you will have to use in this course is higher than those of any other course in humanities/social science.
Take this class if you have the opportunity. It is a great way to get a sense of whether or not you are interested in law. Professor Fallon is great, and the teaching fellows are excellent as well. Be prepared to read a lot, but reading case-law is fun and interesting.
Be prepared to read a lot and stay on top of your assignments! If you put in the effort, you will learn a lot of material and a new way of thinking from this class!
This is a great class for anyone interested in law, politics, or history. The workload isn't too bad and you learn a lot doing it. Fallon is one of the more quoteworthy professor's you'll ever have. Take it!
This was the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. You will learn more than you can imagine, every day. At the end of this class, you will be able to pick up newspaper columns concerning legal cases and be able to have an informed opinion on them. For instance, people talk about Roe and Brown often, but how many of these people actually have read the cases or know anything specific about them? Also, this course will help you realize how lawyers think, and why our constitutional law is the way it is. You will be a better citizen of this country as a result of this class.
The course was fantastic. Fallon is simply phenomenal. He is so quirky, but that makes him interesting and approachable. Sections were way too big, though, and they were often boring. I felt like it was difficult to get everything I wanted out of the class because of this.
The course is amazing - just be wary when selecting your TF.  You will learn a lot about constitutional law, and it's a good way to experience a class taught like a law school class.
Take this class. Go to lecture. Read the casebook like it's a bible. Get together a study group for the cases at the end and bring every case with you to the exam: trust me. It'll be hard to make yourself go to every lecture because you could probably do reasonably well without it, but Fallon makes the course and you'd be missing out if you slept through them, as I often did.
This may have been the best course I have ever taken at Harvard, or even in my life. Professor Fallon's lectures are completely absorbing, and my section happened to be awesome, too. I think every Harvard student should take the course! It's really important that our society's future leaders learn about the foundation of American society- the Constitution- and how it has been interpreted by the Supreme Court. Additionally, Professor Fallon's balanced approach to heated topics forces each student to assess whether his or her own reasons for supporting a certain side of an issue are (constitutionally) logical, which I think is a really important exercise for every student.
Amazing course. If you have the opportunity to take it, go for it. Professor Fallon is a one-of-a-kind lecturer and is incredibly knowledgeable in all things legal. Great reading assignments and you'll leave this course with a basic knowledge of Con. Law.
This is a wonderful class if you're interested in getting a window into both the practice and history of law. More fulfilling if you're interested in contemporary debates and a glimpse into law than if you want a rigorous look at the theory or history side, which is covered in sometimes unsatisfying, broad sketches.
Professor Fallon is an incredible professor and we were exceedingly lucky to have him teach undergraduates. He is a professor at the law school and he led the course in a way that he would in a law school setting. He is engaging, VERY well informed, and approachable. He is careful to let you know when something he says may be biased but doesn't shy away from stating his opinion. If you want to understand how the American Supreme Court reasons, take this course. If you are considering law school, take this course. Even if you just like reasoning through the most salient issues in the country, take this course. If this course continues to be offered it will be one of the most popular government courses. I see it reaching gov 20 or gov 1540's level of popularity. I can't say enough about the course. (Just make sure you get a TF that you can work with.)
This class should be titled " A Progressive Perspective of Constitutional Law and Morality" because the course is blatantly structured around (sometimes radical) left-wing thought.  The professor is many times openly hostile towards moderate and conservative views, and much of his constitutional philosophy is recycled from the 1960s and not applicable to today's environment.  The professor is very passionate about the subject.  The papers and assignments were very reasonable in length.  Wished that the professor would have made more of an effort to turn in the necessary papers to make the course an Ethical Reasoning Gen-Ed class.
This is a really good class that everyone who is remotely interested in law should take. You walk away learning a lot about constitutional law. Professor Fallon is fantastic as well. However, this is not an easy class. It's not impossible but in order to get the most out of it, you should do the work. Also, make sure you meet with your TF and ask how to write the paper because it's a different type of writing than your usual essays.
This is a great class if you want to understand the history behind many Supreme Court cases that have shaped American law.  This is a great way to learn how the Constitution is and is not applied to issues that will most definitely come up in your lifetime (like recent campaign finance laws and second amendment issues).
There is a lot of dense readings, but Professor Fallon's lectures and section are great at unpacking these texts. You'll learn a lot about law as well as how lawyers think and how legal arguments are made.
This course is very time consuming and because assignments are graded on a curve, you may not receive the grades you receive in other classes.  However, Professor Fallon is a really interesting lecturer and was always willing to meet with students.
If you have any interest in the Supreme Court and its significance in American society, take this class. Professor Fallon is an amazing lecturer and is incredibly approachable and friendly. This class will sharpen your writing skills and critical thinking capabilities.
It is a challenging class, but you do learn a lot about the constitution that are helpful to apply to today's politics.
Great material, great professor. Tarun Chhabra was a fantastic TF, as well. Try to get involved in the material as early in the course as you can - it was only when I was studying for the final when I realized how fascinating this stuff really is. Go to office hours.
This class is incredible.  Professor Fallon is brilliant, hilarious, and very approachable.  It teaches you a great range of Constitutional Law and gives a full understanding of modern doctrine and how we got to it.
This class is amazing. It's not easy, but you'll take away a lot from this class. Go to lecture and read the text often. Try to make connections between cases whenever you can
The class is a great opportunity to learn about the constitution and now government works. If you are interested in government or law school, the class is a must. It's alot of work and reading, but it is definitely worth it.
Take this class! You will learn so much. The material is fascinating, and the way of thinking about these issues is very different from that of other contexts. Professor Fallon is absolutely brilliant, and his lectures are fantastic. This class was also among the most thoughtfully constructed that I have encountered at Harvard - there were clear recurring themes throughout the semester. It was a great, challenging elective and I would recommend it to anyone.
If nothing else, you should take this class because of the subject matter. However, the teaching staff is also excellent. It's a very enjoyable class and is one of the most important you can take as an undergrad.
This is a great class if you are interested in learning about the Supreme Court. I do think it is a little overrated in terms of how good of a lecture-er Fallon is. I also thought too much material was presented, which made it very difficult to know what to focus on when studying for exams and when writing papers.
Definitely consider taking constitutional law, even if you're not interested in the law in the long term. Professor Fallon is a fantastic professor, and the course can very much inform the way you look at constitution and American government. A word of warning, however, is that the course does require significant dedication: it is competitively graded on a rather steep curve.
This course was fantastic. Fallon is an extremely knowledgable, dynamic, and interesting lecturer. The readings are manageable and the paper assignments are actually enjoyable. Sections component is very helpful in understanding how to conduct legal analysis.
Great class all around, take it if at all interested in law.
This course is a fantastic way to be introduced to Constitutional Law if it is taught by Professor Fallon. One should take this course if only to hear his lectures and to learn from his incredible perspective. This course can help make you sincerely think if law school is something you want to do. However, be warned. There is little direction or help as far as defining for you what constitutes legal writing for your papers and exams, and this can hurt you if you don't adapt quickly.
The course is great, and the only one of its kind available to undergraduates. Lectures are extremely engaging and the reading is interesting and directly relevant. There's no midterm, so the workload isn't extremely intensive; the only assignments until the final are two relatively short papers.
The hour and a half is seriously difficult to make it through without losing track of what's going on; the material is extremely dense and the reading is almost all complicated court proceedings. The material is very important but the class is far from easy.
Fallon is the most hilarious lecturer and a brilliant legal mind. Prepare to have obscenity cases taught with a hypo of how Harvard students could legally produce a porn magazine and a Free Speech lecture discussing why even a conlaw professor can't get away with ordering a hit. Every case is central to modern law, every lecture extremely relevant. I'm officially prepared for this election and all of the health care debates to come.
Take this class. Don't feel intimidated if you are not a pre-law gov type--it's possible for everyone to succeed in this class and Prof. Fallon will introduce you to a whole new way of thinking that doesn't assume prior knowledge or preparation. It's really important to know this material and Con Law is a great framework for thinking through moral debates.
This is a good class but what you are tested on (applying cases and constitutional arguments to new cases) is different from what you learn (past cases). Section is supposed to teach you how to apply things, but it does not always work out and the class is graded rather harshly so you may come out of it with a grade you don't like. Otherwise Fallon's lectures are insightful and the TFs are great.
Prof. Fallon's reputation precedes him; his cogent and precise lectures deliver more than the facts, they bring you into the multiple levels of discourse that surround constitutional law issues. The course readings are taken from a law school casebook, and Prof. Fallon always selects a high-caliber teaching team. This class comes once every two years, so be sure to take it when you have the chance.
Professor Fallon is an absolutely brilliant mind and teacher. He gives undergraduates a taste of what law school is like - fast-paced and you are being fed a continuous stream of knowledge. Sometimes it might get overwhelming, but the material is just interesting and Fallon knows how to teach it. It takes a lot of work and time commitment, but it might be the highlight of your college career.
If you're interested in constitutional law, this course is a great introduction. It isn't an easy course, especially if you want to walk away with a good understanding, but it's worth it.
Lot of work, lots of kids trying to go to law school, some are unbearable
If you are at all interested in law and social issues in the US, take this course.  Fallon is a giant in the field and the opportunity to study under him is not one to pass up.  This course allows you to engage with important issues beyond the level of rhetoric and think about the complexities of legal questions with the nuance they deserve.
Professor Fallon is a fantastic lecturer and has a way of synthesizing incredibly complex material and making it understandable. There is a great deal of reading, but he covers the really important stuff in lectures.
I enrolled in the course because I needed a moral reasoning core and while I was mildly interested in the topic, I wasn't thrilled at first. However, I absolutely loved this class. I learned so much. Lectures were incredible and the reading is really interesting. It's a fair amount of work, but it's worth it.
Should Prof. Lessig or Prof. Tribe offer any undergraduate courses, I'd advise taking theirs rather than Prof. Fallon's. He announced that he would be running it like a law school class, and he did. That had its obvious advantages; it also had its disadvantages. It was clear that the material he was teaching between the two courses were interchangeable, since he repeated himself frequently. Likewise, he complicated arguments not by their understanding but, at times, his terse language (I suppose the language of a law professor). Take it if you might be interested in the law--it will decide conclusively for you--just be aware that it might not be the sort of law class that you as a future law school student might be expecting.
The class is well taught and covers a very interesting subject.
This class was great. If you have any interest in the Supreme Court or in going to law school you should definitely take this course. It's taught like a law school course for the most part so it'll give you a taste of what might be to come. Lectures were pretty good for the most part. Section can be bland unless you're working on hypothetical cases.
Play it safe on the essays. Stick to constitutional doctrine, secondary literature on the casebook notes if you want to get fancy. Creativity will not translate into a good grade as much as full comprehension of the dominant interpretations of current constitutional doctrine (i.e., this is a gov class)
Anyone with an interest in the Constitution should take this class!  The reading load wasn't too bad, and the papers were actually fun to write.  Sections were super interesting.  The subject matter of the class is very interesting and super relevant.  Fallon is also a great lecturer.
This class is great, and you don't have to put that much into it if you don't really care about the grades.
Okay, so, the rave reviews in previous years of the Q are not entirely misrepresentative. I just found it difficult to keep my interest up throughout the entire semester - doing all of the case readings, paying attention throughout an entire hour and half lecture, etc. Prof. Fallon is brilliant, for sure. And very available to meet with students, though unfortunately, I did not take advantage of this. If you take this course, make sure you go to his office hours! Take advantage of this brilliant mind/kind soul. And the course is very interesting for sure. But don't think it's ALL as grand as the Q may have you believe.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Do you want to sit through long lectures you hardly understand?  Are you looking for sections that feel tense and uncomfortable?  Are you ready to be discouraged from ever taking up Constitutional Law again?  If so, this is the course for you!  This class is guaranteed to be the sadistic, Sisyphean struggle you're looking for!Alright, a little harsh, but definitely wanted to get your attention.  Clearly, I would advise against taking this course - unless you are extremely, and I mean extremely passionate about Constitutional Law (I'm talking, "your dad's a lawyer, your grandfather was a judge, your great grand father went to school with Jefferson" kind of passionate).  Otherwise, there are many better courses you can take that will satisfy these requirements or more importantly, that will interest you far more.  This is not a course about the "issues at the heart of American society."  For that I would strongly recommend CB49 American Protest Literature.  This is not a course about American history.  For that I would recommend a history, not gov, course.  And this is not a course on political theory.  This is law - and don't confuse it with something else.  Make sure you find it very enjoyable and exciting before you take this course or else you will honestly find it a regrettable experience.Fallon is not as great as people say.  His sentences are EXTREMELY long-winded and convoluted, effectively making him very hard to follow.  And you needn't just take my word for it!  Three weeks in, you'll find people surfing their laptops rather than paying attention to lecture.  And you should also take into account the longer lecture time - don't underestimate it.Also, if you're really not interested in Con Law, readings are an absolute bore.  In short, this course is not for everybody.  Actually, not for most people.  I would not recommend this to anybody - at least not anybody I like.Please, for your sake, take this review seriously.
Phenomenal course. Take it if you have any interest in law.
Take this class to figure out if you want to go to law school.
This is a great class. The reading may be dense but is also really interesting.
It takes a little time to get used to all the legal reading and writing, but this class was very beneficial to me. Many of the cases are very relevant and being hotly debated in the current society, such as gay marriage, affirmative action, segregation, right to carry gun, freedom of speech, etc. I feel I'm a more educated person now. You should definitely take regardless if you are a pre-law.
FANTASTIC COURSE! You have to take this course!!! You will learn so much and Professor Fallon is a great lecturer. Especially if you are thinking about law school, this class will give you a little taste of the style of thinking and application that you will need to do.
A must for anyone interested in any way in Constitutional Law.
I'm tremendously grateful to have taken this class. Professor Fallons' knowledge of constitutional law is encyclopedic and his lectures conveyed his enthusiasm and keen ability to convey the course material. Ashley Nyquist was an excellent TF, always willing to meet with students. For anyone with any interest in constitutional law, I'd suggest this class.
Professor Fallon is brilliant and this is one of those classes you should take before you graduate. However, a prior basic understanding of constitutional law is actually useful, because most of your classmates will not view this as an 'intro' class and you will be behind if you don't already know how to approach the materials.
