Get started on a research paper early--it will save significant grief at the end of the semester.
The course is much better with a solid foundation in macroeconomic theory; perhaps brush up on it prior to taking the course.
Make sure there are more than one final paper requirement, like literature reviews, reviews of articles etc. As it is now, it is very easy to get stressed out about the paper when January rolls around.
The course essentially takes economics and looks at papers with some, occasionally tiny, political component. Not a highly 'political' course, and remains narrowly focussed. But if that's the area you need to know about, a good introduction.
This is an excellent class.  Moreover, it should be considered by students from several different disciplines, including political economy, economics, political science and history.  A prospective student does need to keep in mind the demands of the final paper, which are significant and rewarding.
Try to come up with a research question for the final project as soon as possible, and keep talking to the professor. He is accessible and constructively critical.
Already done son~
The course covers interesting material, and the professors are interesting and know a lot about these issues, but the discussions aren't very helpful.  How much you get out of the discussions will depend a lot on whether the students in the class push themselves to participate beyond what is required, or whether they just answer the discussion questions and won't engage further.
Great overview of international political economy.
I learned a lot - not like most polisci classes where we just 'discuss.'
You shouldn't be nervous about the course, even if you're unfamiliar with the material.  This was a great class and a perfect choice for a secondary subfield course.
This course is a good chance to read an interesting literature, but it may not provide a lot of background for learning about some of the major issues in IPE.  It also has a very contemporary focus so doesn't give a good sense of the scope and history of the field.
The class has the potential to be a great graduate-level introductory course if the reading list is altered.
great lead into IPE
Put the time in and you will not be disappointed. Jeff is one of the very best teachers I've ever had.
Worth taking simply for readings and Jeff's discussions and explanations to questions.
I highly recommend this course. The readings are interesting and diverse. Jeff is a great resource for research question and throughout the seminar he does a great job helping students think about mechanisms and potential measurements for research questions.
