Really helpful if you are trying to get to grips with a range of quantitative approaches, and if you want to properly understand the assumptions of the counterfactual approach to causation.
This course will teach you why scholarly research is so hard!!
helped me understand where poli sci is now ... what are the relevant questions/methods
This course would be most useful to students close to starting dissertation research or another major research project.
A great opportunity to work on a research paper and reinforce understanding of the central themes of methodological inference to be picked up in grad school. But you will need to look elsewhere to nail down particular methodological skills as the course is not particularly technical.
This is a great research planning and research development class.  The view into human subjects and mixed methods is very useful.
everyone should take this class
Whether you are interested in qualitative or quantitative (or "mixed-methods") approaches to research, this course will let you understand the research process from its core and provide you with a comprehensive and strong understanding of the different research methods, as well as their strengths and limitations.
Take it when you have picked your topic and are ready to design a project on it.
It is very good if you don't know the counterfactual model of inference and need an overview of empirical methods that can help in the identification of a causal effect.
This is a fantastic course. I would highly recommend it to anyone. Even if you are not interested in causal inference, it provides a rigorous structure for thinking about research questions.
Great course for learning about various research methods, as well as interacting with and presenting to colleagues.
Take it in your first year. Everything else is clarified by this course.
Take this the first year of your program. It will change the way you study other literature, and study your own question
Great course - a great way to focus in-depth on your research area of interest when your ideas are still in their beginning stages
Useful course to take during the process of research design development. Take advantage of the advice and feedback offered by the teaching staff.
A really good idea to take when you are in the prospectus-writing phase.  The course helps you break the task down into manageable parts and is a prime forum for floating ideas in progress.
This course only makes sense if you already have prior methods courses under your belt. It is more a course to exchange ideas on methods than to learn them.
Through readings and discussions you get exposed to various methods to conduct research; and with guest lecturers, you get exposed to some creative ways/realistic stories on how to do research.
