If you're interested in research, I'd take this course. But, I'd strongly recommend doing some of the reading before the semester starts so that you are better able to keep up.
Perfect class for learning how to do empirical social science research.
This is a great course if you are interested in methods. You certainly get out what you put in. Psets are fair considering they were bi-weekly, and only meeting for lecture once a week is convenient.
Perhaps the most lucid introduction to causal inference at Harvard. Lectures are excellent. Problem sets useful, too. Gov 2000-2001 are good prep, as is any Stats course on causal inference (i.e. Stat 140/186). Prof. Matthew Blackwell is a great teacher, and - overall - the course is just about essential for empirical research. Recommended with great enthusiasm. A wonderful synthesis of the causal inference literature.
Focus on the readings and sections more than on the problem sets. I found that the best way to digest the material.
This is not an applied course.
All gov PhD students should definitely take t his class!
Go to section, otherwise the problem sets will be impossible.
Great course with Matt Blackwell teaching! One of the best parts was his candid thoughts on the development of the field. Covers a wide range of causal inference techniques with great explanations, and assignments were very useful.
You only really need to take it if you want to be a methodologist.
Michael is a great teacher. Really, his lectures are among the most clear of any I've attended thus far.
The course is fascinating, but be prepared to breeze by many interesting topics without time to really delve into examples. The readings are at times complicated and assume a solid knowledge of topics covered in GOV 2001. If one is looking for a course to solidify material taught in 2001, this is probably not quite the right course except for when it comes to the topic of causal inference - instead, this will provide an exposure to some of the cutting-edge methods in political science. If one totally accepts that that is the goal, then this course is great.
Gov 2002 is a pleasant literature review of useful methods punctuated with unburdensome problem sets.  This combination gives you enough time to do what you really should be doing: learning python and working on a project.
Great overview and allows to get a good general understanding of many useful methods
