This is a fantastic gov seminar. You will look at things like civic participation, equality, revolution, effective leadership, fundamental rights, and more with an "updated" lens. You will meet one of the members of Anonymous, along with many other fantastic guests who will give you insight into how technology is increasingly becoming a tool of government and revolution. Coming to class never felt like "going to class." Every discussion was flexible, open, frank, and revealing. No other class in the Gov department is quite like it. Make no mistake, there are high expectations for the quality of analysis and forethought you bring to the table; Ruxy is fun but also a highly inquisitive and engaging academic. Come ready to contribute and get a lot out of this class.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. The materials are terrific--relevant and engaging. Ruxy is a phenomenal teacher and gives fantastic feedback. My only regret is that I didn't take this course sooner. Would have written a thesis on the subject matter if I had
TAKE THIS!!! Truly one of the most fascinating and extremely relevant/important courses I'll take at Harvard
If I could take this class again, I would because it is so interesting and constantly changing.  There is so much to learn and it is impossible to absorb and retain absolutely everything; because the format is a 2-hour seminar section each week, I left every class wanting more time for discussion.
This is an excellent class and Ruxy is wonderful. Definitely take it!
Take advantage of office hours. Ruxy will really help guide you with your writing process.
Take it, if you can get into it. Ruxy is a fabulous teacher and the course materials are amazing. You get to know your seminar-mates very well, and Ruxy does a great job of establishing community. Discussions are thoughtful and fruitful, and you cover a ton of material, but cover it very well. Be forewarned, you might end up finding what you want to write your senior thesis about. Ruxy does a great job of making the process of doing academic work (coming up with a research question, crafting a research design, honing methodology) seem exciting. You feel like you're on a big academic adventure, and the perception that these issues really matter - especially compared to the subject matter of other gov courses - is palpable.
Don't forget about the blog post
Definitely take this class if you're interested in the material. It's very interesting and Ruxy did a great job teaching the class. Computers are welcome during class so you can get distracted occasionally, but the subject material is interesting enough to keep you engaged. The 20-25 page report that forms the bulk of your grade in this class seems daunting at first, but it wasn't very difficult once the the paper was split into sections and certain pieces were required by certain dates.
This was one of the most fun classes I've taken! Ruxandra is awesome, and the class environment is really friendly and conducive to interesting discussions.
This is a terrific seminar for any student who is interested in learning more about how Internet technologies affect American politics, comparative politics, and international relations. The range of topics is comprehensive, and the diverse course readings cover both theory and practice. Ruxy is a knowledgeable instructor and excellent teacher who cares about getting to know each of her students.
This class will give you a great background in cyberpolitics and give you a community of students (plus Ruxy, the tutorial leader) who you can always discuss these matters with.
This is a fantastic course. Everything from the topics to the instructor and the guest speakers is great. However be prepared for a lot of work, especially reading and preparing well for class (with 12 people in the room, you notice who hasn't prepared)
This first year course is unbelievably strong and interesting.  Ruxy's approach to teaching is collaborative and focused on helping her students achieve ambitiously, and the work she puts into the course shows.  The discussions, guest lecturers, and readings all contribute to an atmosphere of really rich knowledge of a subject often ignored in the Government department.
If you really want to earn a solid understanding of how the cyber domain is transforming politics and political science - there is no better course for you than Cyberpolitics. That being said, if you are only casually interested in the subject material, I would consider enrolling more carefully.
The day to day requirements of the class are totally manageable. The readings range, you will find some super interesting and some not so much. But the materials give you a great background on the topic. As far as government seminars go, I think this is one of the best you can take. Ruxy is passionate, (in my class) the students were also very passionate, and class was lively and engaging. The readings were generally manageable in quantity and enjoyable in quality. After talking to my friends in different seminars, I definitely think Cyberpolitics is a great choice. I feel like I REALLY learned in this class.
This class is awesome. Ruxandra is a FANTASTIC teacher. She doesn't talk down to you and truly views you as an equal when you're discussing your opinions and ideas. The class is structured in a way that you can pay attention to things that you find interesting, and skip the things you don't find interesting (which means the week to week reading workload is as difficult or as easy as you want to make it). The final project/paper is fairly straight forward and allows you to explore an idea that you found interesting in the class. Given that cyberpolitics play such a large role now days, this class is a MUST take for any government concentrator.
This course is an opportunity to study the impact of cyberspace on government with someone who really cares about it. The big issue is that cyberspace may have no effect (or a trivial, obvious one) on government. We don't know. This course might help you find out.
Take this class! If you are interested in technology, or political science, or social sciences, it is for you. If you care about living in a globalized, interconnected society and want to understand how that works -- and how the tech tools you use every day mean something in the context of society -- take this class no matter your concentration focus. The readings and discussion for this class are relevant. And the course setup is fantastic and conducive to deep thinking and discussions. And we have awesome guest speakers! Most of all, Ruxy is one of the best professors I have had at Harvard -- she is a brilliant, committed and supportive teacher and mentor and is willing to be there for you for every step of your research and writing process. I hope this class is offered for a long time to come. You won't be sorry -- sign up!
Take this class if you can! One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Ruxy is leaving so it might be different but it was incredible with her. You learn a great deal in a fun environment.
Great class! Very fun time during seminar, you have the flexibility to pick research topic. Ruxy is also awesome and she helps out a lot with the writing process.
Cyberpolitics with Ruxandra Paul is an amazing time. She is one of the sweetest, kindest, and most interesting people I have ever met. She loves teaching and is very involved in making sure we become more engaged scholars.
Great class. An incredibly important topic to be informed about, and always had great discussions in class together with some of the true leaders in the field for guest lectures. The final paper/project can be a little tough to get off the ground as an initial proposal is due relatively early in the class, before having much experience with the majority of the course material.
She is a tough grader but its well worth it
This class was so interesting and the material is such that even if you didn't do all of the readings you could understand what we were talking about in the discussion and join in. Ruxy knows a lot about this material and takes the class seriously but knows when to be light and fun as well.
