I especially liked how the course presented the best of democracy with all of its flaws.  The structure fluctuated between pessimism and optimism, which created a sense of urgency for the subject-matter.
This class is fascinating! Professor Hagopian is an excellent lecturer (although she does tend to run over the hour and tends to spend too long on certain topics, resulting in her skipping over other key points in the outline). Regardless, the class is wonderful. She KNOWS what she is talking about, and she wants to make sure that everyone else understands social policy (which tends to be rather confusing). Leslie is an excellent section leader, but she is a hard grader. She does not make it clear how she grades the assignments. Although there is a rubric, it didnt help me when writing my paper. I was frustrated for a lot of the semester because I felt like Leslie just didnt want to give anyone an A.  Her feedback was always picking at something new that I did wrong.
This course goes very in depth into the historical, governmental and sociological perspectives of social policy in Brazil. It is a must-take for anyone interested in Latin American Social Policy, and helps one understand many of Brazil's current struggles in a greater context. Professor Hagopian is extremely knowledgeable in her field and provides great lectures. It does require a commitment to the course if you want to get everything out of it that you can - so don't take it as a 5th.
Take it if you like policy and political history. It has its ups and downs, since some topics are more boring than others, and it spends a lot of time on Brazilian political history.
A reasonable amount of reading! One of the first Government classes I've seen with a good amount of reading. It's a great course overall. you really get to engage with the reading and learn from it. Lectures are relevant and although they do touch on the readings a lot, Professor Hagopian ties in her own hypotheses and has great additional material. And Leslie is an amazing TF!
This is a great course for people who are deeply interested in Brazil and/or social policy. However, this course probably won't be for everyone. You really get into the nitty gritty of Brazilian social security, health care, etc. Both Prof. Hagopian and Leslie are terrific teachers, though, and very, very accessible. It's hard to imagine a more capable TF and professor.
This is a wonderful class, and a good way to get insight into Brazil and its complicated history of social policy! Professor Hagopian is wonderful, and really cares about her students and this class! She and Leslie make a wonderful pair, and the readings and topics are extremely interesting!!
This class was amazing! Prof. Hagopian and Leslie made the class extremely enjoyable and engaging!
There aren't very many courses offered in Latin America at Harvard, and this is definitely one worth taking. As a class on one element of policy in one country, it is quite focused, but you still can get a great amount out of it. The teaching is also excellent, especially if Leslie is the TF next year. Workload is pretty manageable, but you do have to/should put in effort (ie: doing readings, putting effort into papers, etc.).
This class is incredible. You will learn so much about Brazil and on top of that, Leslie and Professor H are both always so willing to share with you.
This class is great--it provides a really good look at Brazil and its social policy throughout the 20th century and into the present day. Make sure though that you want to learn about Brazil for the whole semester--if you're not really interested in Brazil and are just taking it for a requirement, you might be better off taking a more general course. That being said, Professor Hagopian and Leslie were both accessible and really showed enthusiasm for Brazil and the course overall.
Be prepared for section and try to do as much of the readings as possible. The more you know going into lecture and section the easier the papers will be! Definitely take it.
Professor Hagopian is an excellent professor.  She is easily approachable and more than willing to help students.  The course readings were well-chosen and organized.  The lectures were clearly presented and easily understood.
This class was really helpful, even to me as a Brazilian citizen, to undestanding Brazil's success and prospects for the future.
It is very hard.
Definitely take this course if you are interested in Latin America. You will really enjoy it.
If you're interest in Brazil, take this class if you can!  Professor Hagopian and Andrei were really great, and I learned a ton.
The professor was very passionate about the subject, however some lectures were repetitive, disorganized, and boring. This is coming from someone who has studied Latin America and was interested in learning about Brazil--disappointed.
A great, dynamic class for anyone interested in social policy or Latin American politics. The professor is truly lovely! Lots of reading, but otherwise the workload is very manageable.
Professor Hagopian gives wonderful lectures, presenting the information in a helpful structure that provides various arguments. The story of Brazil's social policy is fascinating, and is a great case study for many types of political science inquiry.
Take this course! This course not only teaches you a lot about Brazil, but also gives you analytical tools which you could apply to other countries. Prof. Hagopian is also wonderful, not just as a professor but also as a person.
this is a great class, you will learn a lot and prof hagopian is super smart
Harvard doesn't have nearly enough courses on Latin America, let alone about Brazil specifically; this course offered a thorough background on an interesting, important topic.
Hard work, but extremely rewarding if youre interested in the subject
Honestly, if you know nothing about Brazil, this class will be a struggle. If you know about Brazil or Latin America, this class will be your favorite class. I felt out of the loop in a lost of discussions because i didn't have background knowledge.
The teaching staff is enthusiastic and very available to students, and if you are interested in Brazil and/or international social policy this is a great class! A considerable amount of reading but much of it is repetitive and similar to the lectures.
this course was AWESOME. too bad prof. hagopian won't be around to teach it again :(
This course will give you a great understanding not only of Brazilian social policy, but of politics in Brazil during the 20th Century.
It is a great course if you have any interest in Brazil or social policy in general. The sections led by Brandon are great. You will learn a lot about analytical thinking.
This class will teach you a ton about Brazil as a country, about how social policy is negotiated over time, and how different factors can have huge, unforseen impacts. It is a lot of reading, but if you are at all interested in Brazil, you must take this course.
Decent amount of reading, average lectures, great TF. You proabably will want to spend a credit elsewhere.
This class is simply fantastic. Professor Hagopian is an expert in Brazilian politics and so incredibly knowledgeable. She is very inspiring and that definitely comes through in lectures.
I have never had a course taught by such brilliant and dedicated teachers.  Professor Hagopian's lectures are gripping and the section was really fun and Brandon posed really interesting questions.
