Prof. Gest is an incredible teacher, adviser, and friend. I cannot recommend the course enough. It is as difficult as you would like to make it, though doing the reading is certainly a help for the assignments. This is certainly not an easy class to get an 'A' in, but the best part is Prof. Gest cares deeply about your development as a student and is essentially a life coach - be sure to get to know him!
This class is a very chill way to learn about Muslim issues and gives you a really interesting insight into this important but marginalized group. Justin is a great teacher and the readings are well worth your time. That said, the class also doesn't demand a ton of you so it can end up being a pretty neutral experience if you want it to be.
-very interesting and important subject matter; good materials complemented with fabulous excursions into the 'real world'; fabulous, knowledgeable and dedicated professor (who won an advising award this year by the way)
This class is for one thing, very well named. You're going to get a solid background in everything the  course title suggests. The readings are well-chosen and interesting, and are actually conceptually useful in understanding the course material. The best thing about the course, however, are the class discussions, the guest speakers, and the field trips!
Dr. Gest is very engaging, knowledgeable, and passionate about the subject matter.  However, I would only recommend taking the course if you are also very passionate about the subject matter.  Readings can be very difficult, and Dr. Gest is a tough grader.
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard thus far! Professor Gest is so accessible and really cares about his students.  As well he really puts time and effort into making all the readings and lectures worthwhile and interesting.  He works really hard to make this an excellent class and it truly is one.
If the course description sounds AT ALL interesting, do yourself a favor and take this class.  I learned so much about democratic theory and its practical application, as well as the role of religious/cultural difference in Western politics.  Justin is a phenomenal teacher--very approachable and skilled at facilitating discussion.  Also, field trips.
Gest is the best.
Justin Gest is a great teacher and this class is never boring. You'll learn a lot.
Justin Gest is one of the best professors I have encountered at Harvard.
Great discussion. I wish the readings would have been discussed a bit more to prepare for writing assignments. However, overall, the course was great!
Justin will be leaving Harvard next year, but if  the course is ever offered again, take a leap of faith. You will NOT regret it. This is probably my favorite course I've taken at Harvard. It's fun, dynamic, creative, challenging, enlightening, and many other adjectives associated with high praise. It's a treasure and treat, so don't miss out.
This class is really interesting and your opinions will be challenged.
Dr. Gest is hands down the best instructor I've had at this university and all of his classes are a treat. If he ever returns to Harvard and this course is offered again you should do all you can to take it.
This class will not be taught next year (Professor Gest is permanently leaving Harvard).
