This is one of the most challenging and amazing course I've taken at Harvard. Plus, Professor Hagopian is the best professor ever and I simply loved the course! Be aware it will be a lot of work, but also that it will be all worth it!
This course is a must for anyone remotely interested in inequality or in the Latin American region. It provides a great historical overview of how inequality has changed over time and how the policies implemented in these countries have affected levels of inequality and poverty. In particular, the course really allows students to think about the future of the region and develop opinions about the best policies that countries can enact to reduce inequality.
Be prepared for a course that's heavy work at the end with the big research project. Make sure to start your research earlier and hit all of the benchmarks Professor Hagopian sets for prospectuses and synopses -- having this writing and research done early is critical to not freaking out about the paper at the end.
If you are passionate about Latin America or want more opportunities to study about Latin America, I recommend this course with enthusiasm. However, I am hesitant to recommend for students who have never taken a government class before or who do not have much background is basic economics.
Keep up with the readings and establish a good relationship with the professor. She gives great feedback and is very helpful for the writing assignments.
Take this class! This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Professor Hagopian is extremely knowledgeable and caring. If you are really interested in the topic, getting through the readings is very easy, and if you choose the right topic for your research paper, the writing process becomes so much easier. Also, Professor Hagopian is great about having deadline throughout the semester to get you started with the paper.
Phenomenal, phenomenal class, if you are even remotely interested in the material then I would suggest taking the class because Hagopian goes out of her way to make this class engaging and not to difficult conceptually. It is not an easy class, but it is rewarding.
Professor Hagopian is one of the most incredible, esteemed and exciting professors at Harvard. Not only does she bring a bright, intellectual personality to the table (and you will find this with her stories during classroom to table!) but she is incredibly dedicated to the student. She really is willing to put in the time to ensure you succeed and I wish every professor at Harvard could be this way.For instance, for my final project, Hagopian literally met with me over 3 times for an hour at a time, exchanged dozens of emails with me even pointing me to articles for the paper, and reassured me my topic was good several times. Despite being incredibly accomplished in her field on Brazil, pioneering several programs at Harvard, being a female in the gov department on Latin America, she naturally gets along with basically anyone. If you are looking for a real-life human being interaction with a professor, looking to learn about Latin America from one of the TOP scholars in her field, or looking to simply have a class where you actually can participate, this is the class to take.
I would recommend this class only for juniors with a background knowledge of Latin American history and politics (GOV 1295).
