It's worth taking this class just to listen to Mansfield talk for a term.  To be exposed to someone so intimately fluent with the material is really something.
I would recommend this course only if a different professor taught it.  The material is interesting, but Prof. Mansfield is not.
take it - it is really good
interesting topics one should know about. well taught and manageable, but challenging
You could learn a ton, but if you don't have at least an hour a day to devote to readings, then you will have a lot of trouble keeping up.
This course is very interesting, by the very fact that it is taught by Professor Mansfield. It offers a decent grounding in modern political philosophy and a forum for practicing philosophical argumentation.
This is a great philosophy class with interesting political implications interwoven.  The overview of philosophy of each of the authors is a great way to get into this kind of subject matter.
take if you are interested.  i would recommend taking with Professor Mansfield
do the reading
It's a good grounding in political philosophy from the Renaissance to the present, and the ideas in there are still batted around in politics today.
This course places you face to face with the leading modern philosophers.  Prof Mansfield guides you through this difficult material, but does not filter it.
Prof. Mansfield is the consummate lecturer. Between his vast learning and his remarkable sense of humor, you'll never leave this class unstimulated.
make sure that the topic interests you
Mansfield's lectures are remarkable, and the thinkers that this course addresses are important ones to know.  I had a great experience in this class.  It was particularly fun to try to discern what Mansfield really thought about the thinkers he was describing -- He would make statements from their perspective at times, and it was difficult to know what was really going through his head...
Pay attention in lecture: Mansfields lectures are full of texture and subtlety.
The lectures are intense and sometimes hard to follow, but if you do the work, go to office hours, and really engage your mind with the material, the thinkers and their ideas come alive. Professor Mansfield shows the impact each philosopher has on contemporary thought, an aspect of the class that I found most fascinating.
Try to stay on top of the reading. Even if finishing all of it on time isn't crucial to doing well in the course, the readings are central to Western thought and important to have under one's belt.
That it's a challenging class but worth it if you put in the time to do the reading
I think everyone should read these texts, although get your work done and read the texts.  The essays are small, not too hard.
It's a really good course if you're willing to put the work into understanding the philosophers yourself, since the guidance the course provides is mainly on a pretty advanced level.
This class is very rigorous and at times the lectures are very dense, but it was also very rewarding. Don't take it to boost your self-esteem, but do take it to consider the last 500 years of political thought in a critical and insightful light.
Fantastic reading list, Mansfield's lectures offer a way to understand and interpret material, but are not central to appreciating course. It is as if one is reading an ongoing piece of criticism along with the texts except that Mansfield is reading aloud.
You'll be reading a ton of interesting and important things that you really just ought to read before finishing college, and having an eccentrically brilliant professor alternately explaining them to you and making them vastly more confusing.
When Mansfield isn't being self-consciously un-PC (which happens less than 15% of the time), he delivers intelligent, united commentaries that help you appreciate some really great texts.
If you're interested in political philosophy, this class is a must.  Be ready to read A LOT though.
Be prepared for Mansfield's grading scale and the gross amount of reading and preparation for the final.
wonderful and interesting look at the intellectual evolution of humankind reflected in governing practices.
take it if you're interested in the reading list
That it is very interesting and the work-load is not too heavy.
This class has a heavy reading load. It will expose you to some of the greatest thinkers in philosophy.
It's a wonderful, fascinating class, with great instructors but be warned that the reading load is very very heavy.
Prepare to work hard and learn alot!  The syllabus consists of books that everyone should read during college.
this class teaches the foundation of political philosophy today and is something that at least all gov concentrators, if not all students should study.
Try to understand larger thematic patterns between authors as you go.
Even though I learned I'm more interested in the policy than the theory, I think this is one of those courses you ought to take at some point in your educational career.
Difficult for beginners; proceed with caution.
don't worry about writing down everything she says!
A LOT of reading. But interesting stuff. Very good especially for a moral reasoning core.
Leave yourself enough time to do the readings properly!
This was an excellent course with an excellent coverage of material.
A great introduction the canon that lets you trace certain key themes - particularly the theme of history - through the history of western thought.
The class has an extensive reading list but it consists of the seminal works of modern political philosophy.
You have to be self-motivated or else you will get overwhelmed by the amount of reading.
Only take this course if you are actually interested in this subject. The reading is too dense and the assignments too specific (and un-bull-shit-able) for someone who doesn't actually have a vested interest in learning about political philosophy.
well-structured, foundational
This is a really great class, if you want exposure to the canon of modern political thought.
Professor Rosenblum is a great lecturer.
Only for those who can come to terms with Prof. Rosenblum's lecturing syle.
This class is a very good introduction to modern political thought.  I would recommend Rosenblum's version in particular for those who want a thoughtful overview of the thinkers and the different ways of interpreting them.
If you're a freshman, do not take this course. I was confused and overwhelmed by all the ideas and theories in the course. The workload is not bad, but a lot of your grade depends on your understanding and discussion of the reading, and to me, it was really hard to understand anything, therefore hard to participate.
This class is difficult due to the expansive reading list. However, I personally found all the reading engaging and liked doing most of the work for the class. Therefore, the difficulty of the class canceled out to some extent by the fact that I really enjoyed the class.
Much easier to synthesize the thinkers and draw links between them (which is the overall point of this) if you spend a couple of days reading an introduction to political thought, perhaps Wolff or something.
Might perhaps have been better with Prof. Mansfield.
Easy and fairly interesting.
For those with a background in political philosophy or those willing to work very very hard, this course will be useful. Nonetheless, this is not a course that one can expect to slack off in, or even put in an average amount of effort, and expect anything less than serious consequences.
The material is interesting, and it is a relatively painless way to fulfill a Moral Reasoning requirement (especially if you are more interested in understanding major historical philosophers rather than moral reasoning per se), but Professor Rosenblum's lectures are delivered in such a boring way that there is very little incentive to go to class.
This course introduces you to major political thinkers whose writings most people will not be able to read and fully grasp without further instruction. Professor Rosenblum's lectures are truly illuminating, and provide a good entry into political philosophy. This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard!
Great class, great professor, great sections.  What could be better than having such wonderful people guide you through some of the greatest philosophical works of all time?
Great class! Great opportunity to read all of the canonical thinkers that social studies concentrators like to think they're the only ones who have read. Nice in developing your cocktail party/cultural reference knowledge bank. I did not mind the formal lecture style, but it might not be your thing.
A great class, incredible content. Professor Mansfield is a legend. Take this class if you want to be a leader - probably as close to a "great books" class as you will get at Harvard.
The lectures were not as interesting as I would have liked, which was disappointing because I took the class largely because I had been encouraged to take a class from Professor Mansfield. That said, Professor Mansfield is very knowledgable and knows the subject well. It I had not had an extremely reading heavy schedule this semester, maybe I could have taken more time to fully engage with the reading and would have been able to ask questions of Professor Mansfield and thus take better advantage of the class. However, I did all the readings and attended all the lectures, yet still felt that the vast majority of what I learned from the course was due to section. The course gives a very good overview of the development of modern political philosophy in general however, so for me it was useful background knowledge to apply to other history courses in the future that deal with the same eras.
This class is interesting and engaging and can connect to many different courses of study at Harvard in different ways. My experience in the class, however, was strongly connected to a very positive experience with my section TF. Without his contribution, the lectures themselves, though interesting, may not have sustained my interest in the class as well.
Although it is hard, if you're interested in philosophy you have to take the course.
Professor Mansfield is a tour de force -- amazing lectures (among them the best I've ever heard here at Harvard).  You're doing a disservice to yourself if you pass up the chance to engage with these texts and with Mansfield's understanding of them sometime during your undergraduate career.  Truly incredible.
Without a doubt, the best lecture course I have taken in my four years at Harvard. Don't miss the opportunity to take it before you graduate.
It all comes together as you review for the final.  REad, keep up, and breathe, you're going to love it once you're done!
1061 is arguably the best modern political philosophy class here, second only to what is covered in SS10 - it uniquely covers most of the major authors and Mansfield's lectures are always interesting to listen to.
It's a lot of hard work and difficult reading but is worth it if you're even remotely interested in political philosophy.
I put a lot of work into 1061 and got fairly little out.  It promised "political philosophy," but it was short on both debate and political relevance.
You must take this class! The readings are fundamental to political and philosophical thought, Professor Mansfield brings an innovative perspective, and section (with Jonathan) was very helpful. True, it's a lot of reading, but it's an intellectually exciting reading load that will keep you thinking for the rest of your life. Lecture is fast-paced, and every sentence is important. I think this course should be required for graduation, especially in the social sciences/studies and humanities... Few courses are on par with this one.
Take it for the material, everyone should know about these eight modern philosophers. Be prepared to do ~ 80% of the reading and go to TF office hours before writing your short essays
Be ready for a lot of reading, but if you are into deeper questions, you will really enjoy this course. It doesn't focus on details, but talks about the bigger questions of life and politics, and focuses on philosophizing instead of memorizing
This is not an easy Government class, but it is also better than the average Government class. The reading list is excellent, and the format of the course forces you to seriously grapple with each author's argument. The section component of the course delves into each author individually in order to help you fully understand their arguments. Mansfield's lectures are distinctive in that they don't really explain the readings to you; he bases himself on the idea that you already understand most of the argument. As thus, they will probably not be helpful if you haven't done the readings correctly, but they'll be crucial if you want to understand the nuances of each author as well as the links between their arguments. By the end of the course, you'll have a deeper insight into the development of political ideas and how philosophers branch off/build on one another's work. With three 5-page papers, the bulk of the class is just keeping up with the readings. The pages are mostly a preparation for the final - which looks really hard and will probably kick my ass next week. Mansfield has a big reputation but he is actually very approachable, nice, and eager to answer everybody's questions in lecture. I don't think minorities should shy away from his class, but they should brace themselves for "politically-incorrect" comments such as calling Native Americans "the Red Indian". I recommend this class; I took it as an elective Gen-Ed and enjoyed myself more than if I had simply taken an "easy" or "lightweight" Gen-Ed instead.
It is a difficult class, but the content is worth it.
If you want to learn about philosophy, politics, morality, or really anything pertaining to the theory of the human condition I'd say this is a class to take. It's one of those few classes that can clearly be said to make you a better person and citizen of the world.
This class is an excellent college experience, albeit very challenging. Readings are difficult, and lectures can often be rather obtuse, but you come out with a very strong foundation in political philosophy and its further study. Definitely make sure you have enough time to devote to this class though - readings are essential!
Keep up with the reading load, take detailed notes in lectures, and ask Prof. Mansfield questions!  He's a genius, and you'll appreciate his thorough lectures.
Tons of reading. The exam is a bitch.
Try to stay on top of the readings...it's tough to catch up once you fall behind. But otherwise, very rewarding class; you definitely read and learn a lot.
You gotta take this class at Harvard. No kidding. Real philosophy for the inquistive who wonder about why the world is the way it is now. Be prepared to have your deepest assumptions challenged.
**If you are considering taking this course or Gov 10 (or some course like that) TAKE THIS COURSE.  Stop worrying about your GPA and Harvey C Minus Mansfield and remember you are at the finest learning institution in the world.  It's time to challenge yourself.  One thing I wish I'd known- if you get 100% on the identifications on the final Mansfield buys you a bottle of scotch. READ.
This class is awesome.  You'll do lots of reading but it's fun!
It's a great class, but definitely try and do all the reading.
This is a great class.  The lectures can be a little inaccessible at times, but section helps a lot with that.  The readings are fascinating (and, also, important), and this class is a great way to get acquainted with some of the heavy-hitters of modern political philosophy.
You need to be able to give the readings a lot of time, so you can really process their thoughts in connection with lecture and section. Otherwise, you're wasting your time.
Take this class if you have the courage. Take this class if you don't want to waste your Harvard career taking classes that are fluff from professors who are fluff.
Mansfield's politics are troublesome, and I would not necessarily disagree with accusations of sexism and racism. So I'm of two minds in regards to recommending this course. But the lectures are really excellent, and the books are absolutely worth reading. I learned a lot, not just about the subject itself, but about how to read and think about dense, challenging books.
This course actually teaches you something about yourself and the world.  It is one of the few non-science courses with substantial content.  I would add that one will not feel belittled by this course in the way that so many other courses treat students like adolescents.
You need to take this course. The readings are all things you need to know before graduating from Harvard. The lectures are fascinating.
This is one of the few truly challenging humanities courses at Harvard. Merely on that basis, it's worth taking.
Mansfield's lectures are worth going to. Everything else about this course is a disaster.
Mansfield's the man.
Mansfield's lectures on Machiavelli in the beginning of the course were by far the most interesting and most engaging part of the course. He is rather disorganized and confusing, but often fun to listen to.
Take it as a freshman, but realize that you will be at the bottom of the class, that you will be at a disadvantage, and your life will be consumed by the readings and your analysis of them if you want to do well. However, as a freshman, you will have a clear advantage over your peers having learned the material, and you will be able to write any bad grades off as freshman year mix-ups.
Do the reading. Twice.
Government 1061 is a course everyone should take before graduating.
This is an excellent course. The content is interesting, indeed essential to the informed participant in Western politics and culture; and the presentation is terrific. Professor Mansfield is an excellent teacher, always informative and always interesting. The pace of the course does not allow you to linger, but the speed is necessary to cover 400 years of political thought in one semester. Be prepared to think a lot and think even more.
If you ever want to be a leader -- not the kind that college applications seduce you into being, but the real kind, someone who makes history -- you NEED to take this class.
Take it for the reading.
The topic is interesting, but the lectures are difficult to follow and are of limited help in putting the readings into proper context. We got the instructor's take on a lot of the readings without the first step of getting the basic knowledge about the readings that should precede interpretations.
The syllabus for this course includes all of the essential reading in modern political philosophy.  If being enrolled in the class motivates you to read these great works, then it is well worth your time.  However, the lecture itself is not particularly valuable.  The class is oriented toward memorizing the philosophy of each writer rather than learning how to critically analyze it or formulate your own ideas.
Mansifeld doesn't simply explain the philosohers, rather he philosophizes on them--something you can either like or dislike. I disliked it. Also, the readings are extremely interesting, but too much: you never go deep enough into them.
This class seemed interesting at first, but quickly became stagnant, boring, and monotonous. The readings are interesting but so heavy that the TFs even suggest skimming, and there is a strong lack of useful feedback on papers.
Most infuriating course at Harvard. Mansfield is a terrible professor who seems more interested in demonstrating his own knowledge than in helping his students are learning. I would NOT recommend this course to anyone. Even having taken (and done well in) theory heavy courses like Social Studies 10, I had no clue what Mansfield was talking about most of the time and hated every moment of lecture.
Note the passages that Mansfield references in lecture - they will be worth your repeated perusal.
You'll enjoy this class if you like talking about big ideas - the way the world is and should be.  It's definitely not focused on current leaders, legislation, or politics, though.  You'd better know how to read and study strategically (skimming, finding good synopses online, getting the TA to give you an idea of what you'll be discussing or writing about) or you'll be swamped by this ten-inch course (that's how much space it takes up on the bookshelf!).  Get the little "Guide for Students" optional book, it helps get the big picture on what the prof thinks.
this is the longest standing and best course at harvard university.  it will challenge you in every way to new heights.  if you would like to know more about yourself and the gears that turn the world, don't hesitate.    mansfield is a god.
This course is a wonderful introduction (though not basic at all) to modern political philosophy - it is comprehensive and broad, while Prof. Mansfield provides material that is detailed and nuanced.
This course will be one of the hardest you take at Harvard, but it is a rewarding study of a 'bucket-list' of political theorists.
Fantastic class - books are great and Mansfield is a clear but sophisticated lecturer.
Do all of the reading and take your time with it.
Be prepared to give your life up.
Hard, lot's of reading, but worth it.
I think this is a class all Harvard undergrads should take. It will be rewarding and provocative no matter what your political views are going into the class.
Professor Mansfield is a wizard at the lectern, donning the role of defense attorney for each philosopher to present an intelligent survey of a wide spectrums of thinkers from the western tradition. Though the emphasis is on 7 thinkers, Professor Mansfield ties in references well to other related important thinkers. Even though I myself was unfamiliar with the philosophical tradition of the ancients, Professor Mansfield made them comprehensible in context. The end of the course feels a bit rushed from Hegel on, but overall the detail of coverage on each thinker is excellent.
The reading list alone is worth taking this class for.
Great way to "get educated" on a lot of important thought.
This was a great course, I just wish I had taken 1060 first.
Be prepared to be reading more than you ever have for another course - difficult, demanding, dense reading. But it's very rewarding.
Be prepared to work hard and to have a tough time deciphering Mansfield's lectures.
This class is necessary for anyone interested in the great books or Western intellectual thought. Professor Mansfield is the preeminent political philosopher of our time, and I would recommend this, his flagship course, for all students.
This is a fantastic but difficult class. Professor Mansfield is wonderful and, though his political reputation is well-known, does not make an issue of his politics to any noticeable extent. His knowledge of the material and his clarity are noteworthy even at Harvard. Lectures are very good and provide multiple opportunities to ask questions. Be prepared to, throughout the course, get low-for-Harvard grades because of the ironic/real grading system, but fear not, for it balances out in the end. TFs are also near-uniformly fantastic. Take this class!
You must be prepared to grapple with the tedious detail of each of the philosophers. Mansfield can be obscure, though taking good notes will really help.
This class is amazing all around.  Tuck's lectures are really substantive, and Tuck is a funny guy.  The TFs know this material well and so sections are valuable.  And you'll learn a lot!
Excellent materials covered in a very logical and orderly way.
If you want to get a solid understanding of some of the classic (and some less well known) political philosophers of the early modern era, this is the class for you. Professor Tuck's lectures are amazing!
I loved this course.  That said, this class is a commitment, because if you do not do the readings carefully, you will likely not get very much out of the course. The class discussion varied, and Tuck's lectures can often seem too heterodox for an introductory course (i.e., Marx apparently was "really just a radical democrat"), so you need to make sense of some of the material yourself. If you are excited by the reading list, and want some thought-provoking guidance through the material, this is the course for you. Otherwise, if you are just looking for an "easy Gen Ed," take something else.
This is one of those classes at Harvard that even though it is hard and has a lot of work, it makes you feel like you actually accomplished something. You leave the class knowing so much more than before and that is a great feeling! It is definitely not an easy class but it's definitely not a waste of time either.
Great GenEd. Graded assignments are few and not too difficult. Professor Tuck is amazing and really cares about his students. He's simply wonderful.
for grad students, just attend the lecture, not take it for a credit
This class is a great survey of modern political thought. There is a good amount of reading you'll have to do each week, but it's almost all authors that people will "expect" you to have read. Lectures are on the ramble side, but always interesting, if not 100% relevant.
The course is an excellent introduction to modern political thought! Richard Tuck knows his stuff as evidenced by his seemingly impromptu lectures. There is a lot of reading, but for good reason. The readings range from Machiavelli to Hobbes to Constant to Marx and so on. This course is difficult due to the material, but definitely worth it.
This is a fascinating class- a must-take at Harvard. Professor Tuck is brilliant, a legend, and pretty funny at times. There is a good amount of reading, but it's all philosophical staples that I feel like I have to have read before I leave Harvard.
If you're a gov concentrator, it's a great way to knock out your political theory sub-field and ethical reasoning gen ed requirements at the same time.  Great readings.  Professor Tuck gives great lectures.  A very manageable workload
This an excellent class, and a great introduction to political philosophy. Prof. Tuck is a very good lecturer; he's not necessarily high energy, but he explores scholarly debates and historical context in depth, and it is very rewarding to pay attention. Note that it only covers up to Nietzsche, so you'll have to look elsewhere for the 20th century.
Great class, I think it is important for everybody to have taken a look at all of these philosophers and you get a good survey. Tuck tends to meander in his lectures so if you are not paying attention than you can get confused as to what the key points are, but nevertheless he is still a remarkably knowledgeable professor and intriguing to listen to. Greg is a great TF and knew how to answer questions well. Honestly since this is a survey course of famous philosophers I found it really helpful to just take notes on the sparknotes pages just so I understand the main ideas, but then also dive into the original texts to glean quotes- this will make writing your papers and preparing for your final exam much easier. The essay prompts were really short and vague, so I hope that for the future they write better ones that you can actually work with.
Be prepared to read a lot. Sparknotes and wikipedia may be helpful times to times. Pay attention to common themes across the works as these may become important towards the final exam.Prof. Tuck is a great lecturer - sometimes he digresses but most of the time his digression is pretty entertaining. He may seem a bit difficult to approach
I completely forgot that this fulfilled both my Political Theory requirement as a Gov concentrator and my Ethical Reasoning requirement for GenEds -- I would take it even if it had been just an elective. The course is ambitious in its breadth and its depth. However, it does an admirable job of covering some of the most noteworthy thinkers of modern political philosophy and their provocative claims. The course pushes you to think and reflect, and the workload IS reasonable. Professor Tuck is an engaging, humorous speaker, and you too will find this to be a treat!
Great way to satisfy ER requirement; easy without being a waste of your time. I had never been interested in goverment/politics before and was pleasantly surprised with how interested I was in this material. Totally possible to get by without doing any of the readings (and the reading is somewhat heavy!) but you'll find yourself wanting to do them. I was mostly quite engaged and frequently discussed the material with others. Tuck is great, lectures are entertaining, definitely glad I took it!
If you aren't going to take social studies 10, take this class.  Understanding how modern political thought developed and progressed helps you understand EVERYTHING in modern history.  These thinkers' ideas underpin all sorts of other subjects, from literature to history to science.  If you are looking for a true, general, liberal arts education, this is a class you need to take.  Also, Professor Tuck is terrific, and the teaching staff was knowledgeable and helpful, as well.  A great class in all ways.
If I were you, I would buy the books rather than using the internet. I wish I had.
It's an interesting subject matter, but the lectures are dull.
If you are looking for a broad survey of many of the greatest political philosophers of all times, this is a great class. The readings are sometimes dense (I'm looking at you, Kant) but overall fascinating; Professor Tuck is also a great lecturer who makes lectures appear like casual conversations, without sacrificing content in the least.
Be sure to read actively and re-read if you don't understand something. Putting in the extra time will greatly help in grasping what each philosopher is saying
Great class. A ton of reading, but amazing professor and amazing TF's. You will learn the broad overview of political philosophy since Machiavelli. It's a very interesting class and I think very useful for rounding out an education.
There is a lot of reading and it's dense, but I loved this course. If he's still teaching, Greg Conti is a fantastic TF: his sections taught me more than the two hours of lectures every week.
A rather boring overview of basic political philosophy with little engagement.
[BACKGROUND] I took this class because I wanted to fulfill an ethical reasoning gen ed and because I wanted to take a class on Nietzsche and this was the only class that had him on the syllabus. I really liked this class because a lot of what we read felt like theories about living and 'how can we best live our lives?' as much as they were theories about government. Everything felt applicable and there was none of that metaphysical shit (e.g. what is color? Can things exist?) or moral/ethical stuff (I love relativism). I am very glad I took this class. [ON DIFFICULTY] The readings were really dense, and we got assigned a lot, so I usually stuck to looking up summaries of all the readings. I read the actual assignment if I was feeling really ambitious or if I had a paper due, then I close-read that mofo. You only have 2 papers, which are pretty short, so there isn't a lot of work required of you. Try to get Greg as your TF. I really liked the format of the final exam too (3 essays. You get practice essay questions to review, but they don't tell you what the essay questions will be on the exam) [ON LECTURE] The most important thing to understand is the purpose of lecture for Tuck: he wants to tell us why these authors were writing the things they wrote. What was their historical context? To whom or what were these writings a response? Therefore, don't expect lecture to tell you what these authors were actually saying. [ON DOING WELL] I had an awesome study group. We finished our study guide two days before the exam and got together the day before the exam to go over all the philosophers. I left this class with a solid understanding of everyone we read except for Hegel. I don't know if anyone understood Hegel. [RECOMMENDATION] Take this class! It's really interesting and not that hard!
Be prepared to do a significant amount of reading. Social Studies concentrators will find this class rather easy just given the overlap between the SS10 A and B curriculum and this class, but for individuals without a passion for social and political theory or doing a significant about of reading, stay clear of this class.
Great for people who want a crash course on the political thought of the past 500 years, but there is a good bit of reading.
Interesting readings and lectures.
Be prepared to read a lot! but all good stuff
If you like history or political philosophy, definitely take this course.
Professor Tuck is a fantastic lecturer: he knows his material backwards and forwards, always has an amusing anecdote, and is very receptive to students. This class is really a must.
This is an excellent overview of important modern political theory - be ready to read a lot, but the syllabus is amazing.
Although the class can still improve, I think the subject matter makes it inherently interesting to those interested in it - I love political theory and would still want to learn more after taking this course!
The best books. A great professor, in Tuck. Lectures are on a higher level than any other undergraduate course you would ever take on this subject.
There is a lot of reading, but the TFs do a good job of helping you focus on main ideas so that you're not left floundering in the large amount of material.  It's definitely the kind of class where you get out what you put in.
This class is one that everyone at Harvard should take. You read important texts, have them interpreted by a leading scholar on them, and get to come up with your own interpretation. Sections are somewhat intense based on who you have, but try and get Sungho - he's an excellent, excellent TF and really cares about his students. Professor Tuck is also very accessible for being such a well-known professor.
This class features a plethora of texts one "should" read. Section with Sungho was enlightening, and you will leave the course with a good general understanding of each philosopher's main points of political theory. That said, there is a lot of reading, and, while you can get away with skipping much of it, you won't be getting all you can out of the course. Secondly, lecture with Tuck is informative, but he spends the first half of every lecture in rather undirected descriptions of the philosopher's life. While it's interesting, and sometimes useful to understanding the philosophers' thought process, a more nuanced discussion of the philosophy itself is often sacrificed.
It was one of the best courses I've ever had in college. If you enjoy reading political philosophy and writing about it, I am sure that you will like this class. Prof. Tuck is very passionate.
Pretty interesting and challenging course.
Anyone who's into politics should think about why they believe what they do about government and people and society and this is a really great class for that.  Go to lecture! You could probably get an A without it, but it's so good, you really don't want to miss it.  It will be the most interesting two hours of your week.
This class is a must-take at Harvard. The works we read in this class are an important foundation for any well-educated person, no matter what your field of expertise or interest.
The philosophers you'll read in this class are very important whether or not you study gov.
The course is difficult. But it is also extremely rewarding. Not only do you get to brag that you sort of understand all these great thinkers and point out all the mistakes people make when they make one-line references to a particular philosopher (Hobbes, Rousseau, Locke, Machiavelli, Nietzsche, Marx, etc.), but you also develop a relationship with the argumentation of each author to see how they reached their conclusions, to understand their nuances. The most fun, though, was seeing the connections between different authors, even when they contradict each other in some other way.
This is a great class. It is a privilege to hear about all these great works from Prof. Rosenblum. She is a very engaging lecturer and always makes interesting and novel arguments.
Really need to have time to sit in the texts. Reading political theory (Hegel) can be difficult at times, and sometimes, you just need to devote 6 hours of your Saturday to allow the text to come to you.  This class is not the easiest, but it's also not difficult--you just have to be interested in political theory.
You really should take this course before you graduate...these are incredible philosophers, and you will emerge with a peaked intellectual curiosity about political philosophy and government.  These are the books you always told yourself you wanted to read, but needed the motivation of a class to make you read.  This class makes them fun and interesting to get through, and the conversations they spark are riveting.  Really, all the readings are fascinating, while sometimes a bit difficult to get through and understand.  But Professor Rosenblum's lectures are interesting, enlightening, and engaging, and section is incredibly helpful.  The papers are not too difficult, and are actually kind of fun to write if you engage yourself.  The exam is also nothing terrifying if you study and understand the philosophers' main ideas.  This was an intellectually satisfying way to fulfill the ethical reasoning gen. ed.  (Also, just for perspective, this was my first government class and my first philosophy class, but it wasn't intimidating at all!  Professor Rosenblum and the TFs make a good job of making the material accessible to non gov/phil people.)
You're probably scared of taking your ER requirement. Its okay, Professor Rosenblum is here with the tenets of modern philosophy to help you understand and love writings from Machiavelli to Nietzsche. Every lecture is high energy and points out the lives, eccentricities, and most important elements of the works that you really shouldn't graduate without reading
Great introductory course for reading all the thinkers you should know about! Be prepared for a ton of reading but lectures were interesting and section was great- the two also rarely overlapped. If you ever wanted to drop Hobbes or Nietzche in a cocktail party conversation, take this class!
This class is one of the best I've taken at Harvard - if you're interested in political philosophy, take it. I found the readings fascinating (especially those philosophers I'd never really thought about before, like Machiavelli and Nietzsche), the lectures engaging and informative (Prof. Rosenblum is an excellent lecturer), enjoyed the section discussions, and got a lot out of writing the essays.
Do your best at keeping up with the reading but more importantly than that go to lecture so you have an idea of what to look for in your readings.
this should be a gen-ed class--something every student who graduates from Harvard should take. Prof. Rosenblum is great. You will need this information as you continue into life. Midterms and final were both fair. You'll know so much after you take this!
Look, I'm Math person yet I loved this course! It does survey interesting authors and if you like to discuss about political ideas from now and then, this is guaranteed to stir up your interest in these topics!
This is by far the best class I have taken at Harvard. The reading list is, I think, a necessity that undergraduates should be exposed to. If you go into it prepared to work hard the pay-off will be huge.
This is an incredible course! If you have any interest about why the modern political systems are the way they are, you should definitely take this class. It was certainly one of my favorite class at Harvard so far.
This is a great class to take if you are truly interested in political philosophy and government. Its themes and concepts can often be applied to current politics and political thought. However, there is a significant amount of dense reading which takes a long time to get though. Lectures are quite helpful in identifying what parts of upwards of 200 page reading assignments are important.
It will be very hard. But you must take it. I would listen to Professor Rosenblum lecture for hours upon hours, if I could. She is brilliant, the readings will open your mind, you will never again look at society the same way.
If you're interested at all in political theory, you'll love this course. It was a great way to learn material I should know anyway. Just make sure you keep up, even if you don't do the reading. Go to lecture!
I had no prior experience with politics or philosophy before taking this class, and I am so, so glad I took it! The class is really well-taught and well-organized; the instructors kept the material interesting, but the material itself was chosen so well that I found it fun to discuss anyway! The fact that the philosophy is politics-oriented makes the philosophy less dry and more "relatable" (in my opinion), and the fact that the politics part is more philosophy-oriented makes the course less about the nitty-gritty of government, and more about broad ideas -- very interesting. The instructors also make sure to connect many of the ideas to modern governments and political ideas/movements!
Take this class! It's really interesting and you'll learn a lot!
Absolutely fantastic class dealing with key texts/thinkers in the Western Canon. Prof Rosenblum is a fantastic lecturer, who really clarifies the works we read and enables students to draw connects between them. Fantastic class! It has it all: brilliant professor and fantastic TFs (Charlie in particular was incredibly knowledgeable and approachable) who really clarify without dumbing down the material, and truly important and great material (key thinkers in political theory).
Only take the class with Rosenblum--she's amazing!
It the best lecture class I have ever taken.
This is a great way to get a good background in modern Western political theory. If you've taken Social Studies 10a, there will be some overlap--but they complement one another pretty well.
Take this class. Rosenblum is is crazy in the very best way. She's a great lecturer and they're great books. The reading load isn't too heavy: it is totally possible to do all the readings, and you definitely should. The lectures will tell you what you need to know and more, but it is time spent with the books that will make this class.
Readings are hard, but you gotta take a class like this as a scholar at Harvard- even if you skim the dense readings. This is the political philosophy canon.
You're going to have to do the readings eventually, so do them on time. This also makes section much more engaging and rewarding.
This a great class! The readings are interesting, not too heavy, and a solid grounding in political theory. Lectures are engaging and thought-provoking. Sections, obviously, vary depending on the TF, but my section was incredibly relaxed and fun, well-facilitated and interesting. The workload was relatively light - two eight page papers and an exam. No response papers.
It is a great intro to political philosophy.
This is a great class and Prof. Rosenblum is a great lecturer. The TFs really made this class as great as it was.
It's a great way to understand more about political philosophy! Take it!
For anyone with an interest in politics who does not have a background in theory, this is a must-take course. This being said, if you've taken Social Studies 10 already, there is no need to bother. If you're hesitating between the two, it really depends on your interests. If you're wholly indifferent, I would recommend Social Studies 10; the formation is more complete, as some of the authors are read a bit too hastily in this class.
It's a great class but you need to really invest in the day to day work to get the most out of it.
If you are interested in political philosophy this class is great; you'll read from many of the most famous thinkers of history and debate their ideas. However, if you don't like these readings, the class and the lectures will be very dry.
The readings in this course are great because they are the modern political philosophy 'canon.' I definitely recommend reading all of the texts we read, and if taking a class is the only way you're going to do that, then take this class. That said, I think I personally would have gotten just as much out of the readings by doing them on my own (if not more because I wouldn't have felt pressured to read 200-250 pages of dense readings per week with no time to reflect on them or think about the nuances of them). I didn't feel like lectures or sections were particularly interesting, and I almost never left understanding something that I hadn't already understood from just doing the readings.
This is not a course for people who do not like philosophy. Be ready to read a lot.
Make the effort to do the reading - it is worth it.  These are texts you will find yourself citing well into the future.
These are all thinkers that you should probably at least know about/read before you graduate from Harvard; I also took this class pass/fail, so it was significantly less stressful for me than it was for some other people. It will obviously depend on who teaches the class in the future because it switches, but I wasn't a huge fan of Nancy's lecturing style; she basically reads her lecture notes from a sheet of paper very very quickly, so fast that you can't even really internalize what she's saying because you're trying so hard to write it down, and her slides aren't super helpful to understanding the course. As someone who had never taken a political philosophy class, I also kind of wished they had spent more time in lecture discussing the basics of each person's philosophy; we did that a little bit in section, but lecture often talked about the writings at a much higher level than I think a lot of us were ready to comprehend.
Do the readings on time-- they don't take very long, will help you understand lecture/section, you won't need to cram-read for the the midterm papers and the final. And they're really interesting! The authors can be hard to understand, so I would recommend going to lecture-- waking up an hour early will help you soooo much. The class is so well organized and structured. I never felt lost with the schedule. And the TFs are amazing. They are so well-versed in the feel, and will challenge you when you BS through section/papers, but they will never make you feel stupid. The material itself can be hard, but the course really isn't, so take it!
don't take with rosenblum... totally disorganized. definitely not for political theory. many better courses.
If you have a limited background in political theory, as I did, this is a very enjoyable class. Professor Rosenblum is a riveting lecturer, almost poetic at time. We went through each of the theorists fairly thoroughly. I found the assignments to be quite reasonable. I would certainly recommend it for a gov theory requirement or as a gen ed. You will actually take away concrete knowledge of these writers, as well as political thought more broadly. References to these works pop up everywhere you turn!
Utilize office hours and if possible read the outlines for the next lectures before you start the readings, they can serve as great guides.
Great class if you are interested in the subject but if not, it is definitely slightly challenging because I think there is kind of an expectation of already understanding some of these concepts.
Don't take this class if you're not genuinely motivated and interested in learning about political theories. You'll get nothing out of this class if you don't have the will to do the readings every week. The lectures and sections will be confusing without doing the readings.
This class is pretty dry if you are not into philosophy. I took it for concentration requirement and GE requirement. The lectures were hard to follow because there were no slides and the professor reads directly from her notes. Although she is a good speaker, the sentences are usually super long and very nuanced, so it's hard to take notes. The worst part is that this lecture is not recorded, so you can't go back and review what she says. So I found it hard to follow. In a class like this, once you get lost, it's hard to get back on track. And like all theory classes, you rarely get a straight answer about whether your view is correct, or at least reasonable. The TFs never give direct answers either. I would not recommend this for concentration or gen-ed requirement unless you're really interested in political theory.
The course is great for getting a fairly wide range of philosophers under your belt, but in a focused lens (political philosophy). That being said, it feels more like a philosophy course than a Government course, but the focused lens mentioned before can feel limiting at times. I thought Professor Rosenblum's lectures were poorly organized and unhelpful in understanding the texts better, but if you take the time to read and think about them yourself, you should be fine.
Great readings! And the exams are totally manageable.
This course is really great! You will be able to read some of the most influential political theorists and be able to compare their discussions on social contracts and different modes of government. The workload is pretty manageable. I recommend that students keep up with the reading and attend lecture and sections since your Professor and TF will definitely highlight the most important themes in the reading. In general, a great introductory course to political theory!
Professor's Rosenblum's lectures can be very hard to follow. Overall, this class is more of a survey: you read the classics, but there is A LOT to reading and it's sometimes hard to figure out what to focus on. It's a good class if you want to get a general understanding of these essential thinkers.
This class might go over your head if you're not experienced in this type of subject. It was a new thing for me, and I had to spend a lot of time simply trying to stop myself from getting lost all the time.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time reading sometimes dry material, but the lectures are phenomenal.
There is a lot of reading involved. More importantly, associating political philosophy with the particular author is critical, as is understanding their similarities and differences with others. This course covered a lot of broad themes and the majority of emphasis for exams and essays revolved along comparing different views.
I suspect the experience of this course will change not insubstantially with the professor lecturing. Professor Rosenblum was a solid and clear, if not always engaging lecturer, although her treatment of the texts was more conceptual than textual. For students seeking to familiarize themselves with the work of standard thinkers in political theory, this class can serve as a fairly good introduction. Advanced students who have some familiarity with this material may also benefit from the refresher, but may also find the discussion of the texts and their arguments to be somewhat predictable.
This course did what I took it for: forced me to read a lot of political philosophy that I wanted to have read before I graduated from college. It was challenging for me, as someone who had never taken a political theory class before, and at times I felt a little lost in the massive reading list and complex ideas. Lectures were beautiful. Essay and exam structure could use some rethinking. Also would have helped to have more "real-world" application.
Reading list is excellent, and Rosenblum is a wonderful lecturer.  Highly recommend!
Lectures could have been more engaging. The combination of stuffy room, closed drapes, lunchtime hour, and lectures read word for word off a piece of paper, made them a much duller experience than I expected with Prof. Rosenblum's reputation for brilliance.Also, the fact that there was so much reading made it very hard to feel, at times, like you were getting very much out of it. I understand it is meant to be a survey course, but in many ways we might have benefited more from going in-depth on one or two chapters every lecture, rather than spending 50 minutes talking about 200 pages of dense philosophy, which really doesn't get you very far.
The readings are great but the class is what you make of it. Don't expect great or particularly interesting lectures. Try to find friends to discuss the material with.
If you're looking for an ER or a government theory requirement, take this class. I don't love theory, but these are the fundamental political tracts that everyone should read. Lectures are really interesting also. The course is not too difficult--do the readings before class and take detailed notes on Professor Rosenblum's lectures because those will demystify the readings and help prepare for the final.
Every student at any college needs to take a class like this.
As a Stat/Math major, I had never taken a government course before, and I found this class to be an incredible introduction to the full range of political theory canon. Nancy was an incredible lecturer and it's a great feeling to be able to talk about everyone from Hobbes to Rousseau to Marx and Nietzsche coming out of this course.
Go in understanding that this is, at its core, an interpretation class -- this is not like GOV20, where you just need to know what everyone thinks. Be ready to critically analyze some very difficult writers. Also know that there's a ton of reading and if you don't do them carefully, you'll fall behind, this is not a skimming class. Besides that, though, this is an incredibly rewarding class that will really drive you.
Rosenblum's lectures are a bit dry. She reads them quite quickly so it is difficult to pay attention and grasp everything she is saying. The section was a bit rough at times as many in the class didn't know what was going on and the section leader often seemed unprepared to lead a discussion.
Wonderful texts and classic themes.
i THINK THIS CLASS EXTREMELY INTERESTING, however I just felt that certain aspects of this course, particularly the section and examinations could have been improved.
If you can understand philosophical and political texts, this course would probably for you. As a bio major with no experience in government, I felt a little left behind in a lot of the discussions.
Invest the added time it takes to read the entire required readings for the class. Lessons from the course will stay with you beyond the end of the semester and help shape your world view, in my opinion something far more important than the grade you get.
Take this course if you feel you can handle some of the hardest (yet most important) philosophers in the world, entirely alone. Lectures were very confusing, always over my head, and I struggled to get a full grasp of the philosophers unless I really spent a lot of time on them in preparing for an essay or the final. The final is a ton of information to go over, but if you study hard, it puts the course together nicely.
Take this class if you already have a basic knowledge of the syllabus and if you are prepared to spend significant amounts of time outside of class reading and synthesizing. If not, you will gain close to nothing from the course. Be prepared to do a lot of the work entirely on your own.
Don't take this if you think you 'need to read these books before you graduate.'  There are far more constructive ways to read these texts than Prof. Mansfield's course.  I would, instead, recommend taking his Ancient Political Philosophy course which is better structured, smaller, and a bit more manageable.  This class seemed rushed and uninspired.  Prof. Mansfield's candor can be refreshing, even for us dyed in the wool liberals, but overall, there are professors offering a more enlightening take on modern political philosophy.
Perhaps the most important class I've taken at Harvard. This class is essential for understanding politics and society, and pretty much a "must take." It is as hard a government classes can get, but very rewarding. It challenged the way I think about the world.
This class has quite a few problems. Professor Mansfield's lectures can be confusing and hard to follow. The paper writing is frustrating, since you'll be told that you failed to "explain why the writer thought a and b" or "why c is important for the writer's overall theory" even though the question does not ask you to do this and the essays are strictly word limited.
Difficult course, mainly because of the volume and complexity of readings. But don't let that deter you.  Everyone at Harvard should take this course.
This is a great course that comprehensively reviews modern philosophy. If you want to read "great books" and have an understanding of the philosophical ideas that have shaped society as it exists today take the course. Beware however, the reading load is heavy and Professor Mansfield, despite being brilliant, can be difficult to follow at times. To make the most of it, commit to reading a lot of philosophy over the term.
Lecture needs to change. Listening to Mansfield ramble on about his own thoughts along with sexist interjections was actually awful for me. I do not think it is ever appropriate to make rape jokes, especially in a class, and Mansfield made several. I found them personally offensive and contemplating complaining to the gov dept. The reign of the old white man is ending and Mansfield should either change his tune or retire. That being said my tf was good and it was interesting to read all the political philosophers. You don't need to attend lecture, so I would recommend not going to save yourself the anger and that deep sinking feeling you get when you listen to the patriarchy.
Stay away from it unless a different professor and TF were to teach it.  I think I would have enjoyed the class much more if I did not feel as if I were way over my head.  There are no lecture notes or videos that you have access to for the class.  It is an hour and a half twice a week and it is very hard to follow the lecture without lecture notes.  There's a ton of reading and it's hard to do well if you don't read unless you do a ton of sparknoting and research into the topics. It is frustrating and takes a lot of time.  If you have the time and really enjoy philosophy, take it, but make sure not to take other heavy reading classes at the same time.  The material is interesting but dense and you really have to read slowly/sit with it to absorb.  it is harsh grading.
This class gives you an understanding of key thinkers in the Western canon. If you've always wanted to learn about them, here's your chance. That being said, it surveys them very quickly and for some more complex thinkers, you know you're missing out on a lot.
Students should be ready to do a large amount of reading and should go into the class knowing that they enjoy philosophy. Also, they should be prepared to deal with Mansfield's difficult lecture topics.
This is an incredibly challenging course. The readings can be very dense and may make you want to rip your hair out because they are so repetitive and still somehow confusing. But somehow I emerged feeling a sense of pride and look back on this course fondly. Maybe I now just have a distorted sense of gratitude...
This was a really interesting class! Professor Mansfield is very intelligent and will make you appreciate everything we read. One note: this was my Gen Ed (I'm not a philosophy person at all) and parts of it were absolutely over my head.
Joe was a wonderful TF and was so much help during section, especially because there was SOO much reading to do for this course (beware). Overall, the TFs for the course were great. Too bad I can't say the same for the lecture component of the course. It's pretty easy to trail off during lecture. Having to listen to Mansfield's "interesting" comments/jokes was borderline uncomfortable and took away from the initiative to put effort into the course. The material itself is super interesting but its not delivered in a dynamic form that keeps you engaged during lecture. Quite unfortunate I'd say.
This is probably the best class you could take at Harvard. Mansfield is a legend, and the books for this course are books no serious student should graduate without having read. Do not let Mansfield's conservative reputation deter you from taking this class. Unlike most Harvard professors, Mansfield keeps politics out of the classroom. I would, however, recommend taking this class after you've already taken an intro political theory class, as the lectures are very in-depth.
Terrible class.  The lectures, while occasionally interesting, are deliberately dense and obscure.  Papers are the worst: they are very stressful, and the grading is ridiculously overparticular and extremely harsh.  The readings (there is also a lot of reading) are admittedly very engaging, but if you are interested I would really just recommend reading them yourself.
you have a duty to understand this stuff
Really great class if you have any interest in political philosophy.  It is pretty difficult, but not to be missed!
The reading is tough, the grades are lower than you want, the lectures demand your full attention. But this course is a standout even at Harvard--it's the closest thing I've seen to a great books course--and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a rigorous journey through what is in many ways the foundation of thought today. Also: go to Professor Mansfield's office hours. Wow.
Stay on top of the readings but don't feel bad if you can't finish them all, or study them all with the same depth.
Great class! Find out why the world is the way it is.
If you have an interest in political philosophy, you'll like it. It's a lot of reading, but if this is your thing, you should find it interesting, since it's all very renowned texts. If you are not really that interested in political philosophy, and you are just using it to fill a requirement, it will likely be a bit of a drag. You need to have a genuine interest to be engaged in this class.
The course is a wonderful setting to not only read an incredible range of philosophers, but also gain exposure to Professor Mansfield's unique (and really interesting!) interpretations of classic works. If you have the time to devote to doing the reading, you should definitely take this class. But keep in mind that there is a lot of reading.
This is a great course and I learned a lot, but it was very challenging for someone who was looking for an introduction into political philosophy. People seem to have quite strong knowledge of philosophy going into the course, and it's also a lot of reading. Covering one author a week is very informative, but difficult to catch up if you fall behind.
Take this class if you are interested in learning more about thinkers like Hobbes and Karl Marx.
Take this class!
A great course! A great way to read all these authors and understanding how the foundations of politics, government, and democracy were founded. I learnt so much! Would advice everybody to do the readings as much as possible.
only enter this course if you are interested in doing the readings!
- Prof. Tuck does not really have lectures - what he has are more like talks. A talk on, say, Rousseau where you will find out cool facts about him, see him in several different historical contexts, think about some very specific ideas and theories regarding how he is or should be interpreted etc. Amidst all this, you will often find the crux of what Rousseau is about completely lost. Prof. Tuck sometimes, I think, assumes that the students are very familiar with the texts (which all the grad students probably are. Yes there are several grad students). So look up basic ideas and themes on the internet to consolidate what you understand from the readings before you go to class. (will be hard to manage time at times though since there is a lot of reading. Use online resources more frequently when you're down on time. The readings are often dense and very time consuming. SO have the online back up option live)
This class is really informative and a great dive into the specifics of political theory and philosophy. It is however, very unorganized. Lectures are often divided into a history surrounding the philosopher and a summary of their theories, but Tuck spends way too
Its a very cool class and you learn a lot. If you like the lecture style and are ok with a lot of reading, I would really recommend it!
Just take it. Professor Tuck is among the best professors I've ever had, and you must leave college having read the books we read in this class. It will probably be one of your favorite classes in your Harvard career regardless of your concentration.
This course was truly, truly incredible, in large part thanks to Professor Tuck and Jacob
You learn a lot about philosophers in a broad scope!
Professor Tuck is an engaging lecturer and provides plenty of context for the writers and the ideas we discuss in class. I would recommend this course to anyone interested in the evolution of political thought over the last several centuries.
You get out what you put it in.
Enjoy.
Done right it's a fair bit of work, but it is an excellent and necessary course
Take this class as an accessible intro to modern political thought. Enjoy the lectures, fear the graduate section.
This class is a must for people who wish to understand what pretentious people actually say when they quote fancy names, but actually understand what those people say. Professor Tuck is a smooth lecturer, so you won't be bored. Reading is quite standard, albeit somewhat frustrating due to bad old writing styles. Jacob is terrific, and will get the actual gist of ideas drilled into your minds so you go on thinking on your own.
This course is challenging in the best way: you learn something new from week to week and dive really deep into political theory issues in a short period of time. I believe you will leave this class more interested in philosophy and politics.
This class is rocky if you do not have a political theory background. It is an enormous amount of work, and you are given relatively little guidance in how to approach it. The course is very unstructured. However, the material is very interesting and lectures are truly informative and at times transformational.
This is a very good class - Tuck is an engaging lecturer and does a good job making these works interesting. I rarely found myself bored in class and I rarely/never find political theory interesting. These are all very important works and one wants to leave Harvard having read them. Lectures are slightly disconnected from papers / the exam.
This is an incredible class. It is a lot of reading but you keeping up with the assignments is really rewarding since it allows you to grasp the more subtle points of Prof. Mansfield's lectures.
If you want to critically think about how the world should be set up, definitely take this course.  It will challenge your preconceived notions of how governments should operate, and what their purpose is.
Its incredibly rewarding
Great course! This course explores the traditional Western philosophical canon, and Harvey Mansfield's lectures did a great job of explaining the more difficult aspects of the texts. Overall a course that everyone should at least consider taking!
This course is a great introduction to works that have fundamentally changed the way people think. But be prepared to put in a lot of work for the readings.
If you are on the fence about taking this course, reflect for a minute on whether any of what you learn about in other courses actually matters -- or whether they have even given you the tools to answer a question like that.  Then, take this course.
This class is the real deal. Harvey Mansfield is a great lecturer and very famous. The class made me question a lot of my beliefs.
This course provides you with a good overview of modern political philosophy. The lectures on Machiavelli and Hobbes in particular were excellent.
This class is very difficult. The readings are long and hard and there is a ton of work. If you need to take a political theory class and are genuinely interested in the topic, you should take this class. If not, you should consider taking another class.
This course is a very great way to get an understanding of modern political thought
If you can only take one class at Harvard, take this course with Professor Mansfield.
Prepare to do a lot of reading. Prepare to encounter impressive, big ideas.
A lot of reading. Be prepared for long lectures read straight off of notes, although they are very instructive on the material.
I would probably recommend this class more highly if Harvey Mansfield hadn't been teaching it. Yes, he is famous and occasionally his lectures are quite engaging, but I was frustrated and occasionally quite offended by the subtly (and sometimes not at all subtly) sexist remarks he would make, which were typically quite irrelevant to the actual substance of the course.
Hearing Professor Mansfield lecture is an experience in and of itself - there are many courses where you can learn the basics of political philosophy, and you can even use the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy if you want that from a text. Take the opportunity to learn from a great professor.
Anyone with an interest in political philosophy should consider this course.  I recommend it with the following reservation, however: If you find yourself unable to parse Mansfield's rather abstruse and dry lectures, do not take this class.  Only take it if you feel that you could thoroughly and thoughtfully read the material and engage with what Mansfield has to say.  This is no easy task (and it is harder than it should be) but it is incredibly rewarding if you put in the effort.  I loathed lecture at the beginning of the year, but by the end I trained myself to be able to be attentive and it greatly improved my experience.
