This is a wonderful class if you enjoy applying theory to real-life problems.  It touches on important issues that matter to our generation and is absolutely worth exploring.  For those who are quant-oriented, this class may not be for you.  It focuses on applying social capital and utilizes mostly qualitative assessments of the problem (although Professor Putnam's books are grounded in statistics).
a lot of readings and writing, discussions may be scattered some weeks, and the material might get a bit repetitive but overall, a great way to learn about the concept of social capital from the very renowned Professor Putnam himself (who will also entertain you with his encounters with the Prime Minister of Italy, Jeb Bush, the Queen, etc). also a good way to make friends because we went to Professor Putnam's house every week and enjoyed delicious cookies from his wife.
This is a great course, but I can only recommend it if you are willing to spend hours every week reading. The paper writing is not difficult per se, but there are 6 papers and a huge final paper. It meets in his house and his wife bakes EVERY week. Amazing course, but not for everyone. Don't take it if you don't want to talk about the same topic from many angles for an ENTIRE semester. I LOVED IT! Easily one of the best courses I have taken here and it has provided me with close contact to a faculty member that I have never had.
There's not many other courses like this where you get to take pretty much the top scholar in the field you're studying and who is very interested in the class, go to his house, and talk with 15 other engaged students while you eat cookies and tea. Professor Putnam is very engaging and interesting, and while the reading is a lot and the papers (especially the last one) are a lot to handle, it's still a manageable course. One word of caution; this is NOT a gov course, it is definitely sociology. Make sure you're interested in the subject before you dive this far in.
A great course with an engaging professor, whose wife is the sweetest...and bakes the BEST baked goods EVER. A wonderful learning environment (AKA sitting around Prof. Putnam's living room drinking tea and talking about the topic). However, there is less hand-holding guidance with the research paper at the end, so not recommended as your first research class, unless if you are willing to be proactive!
The class is a really great idea that manifests itself in a really rocky way. Yes you're at a professor's house on a weekly basis and yes his amazing wife bakes cookies and you have them with fresh tea in the middle of class. But there is a LOT of work. And not very much guidance. And the term paper comes out of nowhere, as do the grades for a lot of the assignments, seemingly. It's a hard class. Not unrewarding - ultimately I came away with a great respect for the subject matter and the professor - but it's honestly challenging. You're going to spend a lot of time on this. No seriously the readings take at least ten hours a week and the response papers have to happen 6 times. And the final paper is enormous. Be sure you know what you're signing yourself up for.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard, hands down. You are expected to put A LOT into the course, but if you do so, be prepared for quantum leaps in your reading and writing abilities, and also feel the satisfaction of actually diving with some depth into interesting and relevant subject material. The curriculum is a a great balance between theory and practice, with an all-start cast of readings and discussions that are often policy and real-world application oriented. Perhaps the best part of the course is meeting other awesome people in your class!
Professor Putnam is a very important theorist and political scientist, but he's not that great at guiding discussion, so you might feel like this class is a waste of time outside the syllabus. also, he's not very available so you won't see him outside of class. if you are a social studies concentrator, I'd just stick with your one tutorial and not double up.
Social capital is a very interesting topic, and Professor Putnam is incredibly friendly. Seminars are informal and can get heated, in a good way. Professor Putnam is a good facilitator of discussion as well. However, you're going to get a lot more out of this class if you agree with the concept of social capital. I think my high expectations were let down by the course assignments. You have to complete 6 1000-1200 word essays. These were useful for helping you interface with the reading, but the high amount of work involved and the limited feedback you received made it difficult to improve your writing or understand why you received a certain grade.There's a long research paper at the end, and there was very little support in writing it. As a result, I'm not sure it actually helped me improve my writing or research skills. In addition to the 6 essays, this class was definitely a lot of work as a result.
The topics discussed in this course were overly generalized and the discussions were often not substantiated.  There were rarely dissenting views from the main social capital thesis discussed and they were often silenced when they were brought forth.  The grading felt subjective and there was not much support for the final paper.  This class did change in some ways how I think about the way in which human interactions spillover to affect other parts of life and the most crucial elements of democratic governance.  Many of the readings were interesting, though some  were occasionally excessive and not focused on the most interesting arguments.  I think you could learn more interesting content and better writing or argumentation skills in another class.
Professor Putnam is very engaging, and the group discussions are very interesting and provocative.
Must be very interested in American communities. Reading and workload is manageable as long as you aren't taking any other reading-heavy seminar type classes.
This is a great course. Professor Putnam is a leader in the field and this seminar is one of the unique opportunities at Harvard that should not be missed. The material is very interesting and while the readings are extensive, you learn to write and read more efficiently. The final paper requires quite a bit of work, but if you start early, it can be a great experience.
This is one of the best seminars offered in the department! The course is eye-opening, thought-provoking, and engaging. The course is structured to afford students a comprehensive and critical examination of social capital, an understudied topic despite its huge policy implications. You will leave the course convinced that recent declines in social capital have contributed significantly to many of our societal problems, and feel inspired to take action. That's exactly what a course should do, and Professor Putnam makes it a reality.  Professor Putnam also cares very much about fostering community within the classroom, which also contributes to the experience of the course. Hosting us at his house and serving his wife's famous cookies, Professor Putnam centers the course around an inviting space. While the workload is slightly more demanding than other courses, the readings are well-selected and the assignments serve to deepen your understanding and engage with the topics at hand in a meaningful way.
This class is simply amazing. It covers incredible material incredibly well, and it's wonderful to have the opportunity to learn from Professor Putnam. It's a lot of work, but it really is worth it.
This is a must-get at Harvard. Professor Putnam is an amazing professor and has this course down to a science. It's a lot of reading every week, but I found the readings to be compelling and the short weekly papers to be manageable. Everyone came to class ready to educate and learn from one another. You'd be hard-pressed to find another class like it.
This class is absolutely incredible. Taking it was perhaps one of the best decision of my Harvard career. It is not for the faint of heart- it introduces you to new ways of thinking and nuanced problem solving. The best, and also the most unsettling, part of this course is that it forces you to really examine your opinions and question your pre-established beliefs. The social capital lens through which social problems are explored, for the non-social capital-junkie, is an incredible tool. This course was very intellectually stimulating. The students in the class were invested and passionate. Professor Putnam was brilliant, and more importantly, invested and interested in the opinions and work of the undergraduates in his course. There is not a day that goes by that i don't think of or utilize some skill that I learned in Community in America in real life.
Everyone who has a chance to take this course should. It has been my favorite class at Harvard and I looked forward to going to Professor Putnam's house every tuesday for great discussion.
The class is a great overview of social issues at hand in America today and a wonderful opportunity to discuss them with your students and Professor Putnam.  The atmosphere of the seminar, which is held in the professor's home, is unique.  Furthermore, the option of either writing weekly responses (making the class relatively non-cumulative and low stress during end of semester crunch) is awesome for scheduling and also holds you accountable to do the readings every week.
Although, this class may be a lot of reading and writing it was certainly one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Be prepared to have your mind opened to all the interesting aspects of what makes up a community in America.
Take this course!! It is a class I will be forever referring to and referencing both in academics and in life more broadly. It is a considerable amount of work, but work that pays off and then some.
This course is very informative, but beware that you really must accept the "social capital" diagnosis of America's problems. It is this argument (basically, that a breakdown in communities and social groups has led to greater inequality, less mobility, etc.) that Prof. Putnam is famous for, and counterarguments don't play a very prominent role in the course. On the whole, I am glad I took the class because I have much more knowledge of many aspects of American community and inequality in America (including education, race, religion, technology, urban life, and others). However, be aware that the reading load is fairly heavy.
If you're at all interested in inequality or community dynamics, you should absolutely try to take this course.
