Overall, I did not learn very much from this course. Lectures were disjointed, and the reading is largely unguided and almost useless until you actually get the final essay assignments.
Very unorganized class
If they do not make serious revisions to this class, I would stay away. This year, there was just one person on staff, so there was virtually no written feedback on assignments, and we had 70% of our grade in 2 papers due during exam period, which was insane. The class is poorly organized, lectures and readings are hard to follow due to the lack of logical cohesion and poor syllabus choices. Sa'adah seems like a nice enough person, but this course was not well thought out, and there was little actual historical review. The readings were super long, but also hard to get through, so I don't think any one really did them. The class was frustrating to get though.
There is a lot of reading, and you might think you can avoid it - but when the essays come around, you need to catch up on a lot of reading in very little time. It is stressful, so please just do your readings on time. And take notes.
The final paper prompt was a perfect metaphor for the entire class. There were eight different mildly coherent questions asked without any real explanation or context and we were asked to supply the answers. Don't take this class unless there is complete reorganization of the class that makes lectures clear and helps explain the content. What you should do is read My Promised Land by Ari Shavit and the The Checkpoint by Oded Na'aman. Those two readings will change your life.
This is an extremely interesting class and Professor Sa'adah is very smart, approachable, and kind. However, this was one of the most poorly structured classes I've taken at Harvard. Get the response papers done early in the semester (you have all semester to complete five 3-pagers). There will be a HUGE backup getting them back to you. I never got any response papers handed back to me before the deadline for all of them, which was incredibly frustrating. Also, do as many readings as you can, and read as much of the "textbook" as possible, since the lectures skip around to a lot of documents and events and people and the professor does not explain who/what many of them are.
If you're interested in engaging with the Palestinian-Israeli conflict this class will frustrate you. Sections are limited to rehashing lectures and talking about theory. Little actual discussion took place. Lectures were not engaging and spent way too much time on certain topics. As a result it was hard to follow the syllabus because nothing lined up anymore. In terms of workload it's not bad overall. There's a lot of reading required but you can definitely get away with not doing most of it. Response papers are flexible, which is nice. You only have to do 5 and you can turn them in whatever works for you, essentially. This might change in the future, but the only two essays were both assigned during reading/finals period and were do within one week of each other, which was really frustrating considering we hadn't done anything for the rest of the semester.
If someone other than Lisbeth is the TF, I would consider taking it. Otherwise, don't do it. Sa'adah is a very disorganized Professor so while her lectures are sometimes interesting and informative, this class NEEDS to have a TF that is engaged and interested in clarifying points from lecture. Lispeth was very clearly coerced into TFing this course against her will. She made it evident from the first section meeting that she didn't really have time to do her job and that as a "young historian," assisting with a more political-science oriented course was not her cup of tea.
Need to be competent with government reading and writing styles
boring class with a lot of written work that did seemed like busy work instead of though provoking
This course is about really important subject matter and you will learn a lot, especially the more time you invest in your learning. However, the course itself felt a bit disorganized and overwhelming. Be prepared to have a lot of reading and to have your entire grade determined by the last two papers.
This class is incredibly hard and lectures are really difficult to follow. You will be perpetually confused.
Download the syllabus and do the readings on your own. This class is administered poorly. The two final essays at the end of the course are you only real form of assessment.If the professor has reduced the TF:student ratio (ours was 50:1), then the class may be worth it.The lectures are good.The TF is good.The cohesive administration and course assessment structure SUCK.
This class was a mess. Just look at the syllabus, get the books, and read them yourself.
Particularly if you don't have much prior knowledge of the conflict, this class is very difficult. The readings are great I and found the last 1/3 of the class to be very interesting and informative, but as a general rule I felt that it could have been better organized; there were a number of times in which I didn't see how the lectures (which were individually interesting) tied into one another.
Not a good course. Lectures are extremely dry and boring and go into strange amounts of detail on some things and not enough on others. Lispeth was great at running sections but she couldn't structure the class. There were two final essays! And both were due during finals period which was hellish and definitely against the rules.
Make sure you understand the expectations of the class. Talk to the professor and the teaching fellow to see if this class is a good fit for you.
An infinitely interesting topic to study, and the professor did a fantastic job of not being biased towards either side, save for instances of common sense.  However, this class never reached its full potential with some disorganized lectures and no feedback from the TF (who, besides that, was a great TF).
There is a lot of reading and most of the grade is weighed at the end of the semester, which can be stressful with other assignments being due at the same time.
This is a very interesting topic, but the course was not very well structured. Nonetheless, throughout the fourteen weeks, I learned a lot about the historical and political background of the Arab-Israeli conflict, and do feel like I have a good foundation to start with.
The lectures are disorganized, and you won't feel very invested in the course if you don't do the readings or response papers. Even then, you probably won't cover much of the material you read in class.
There were two essays due at the very end of the course. I think it would have been better if one was assigned in the middle of the course. it was difficult to fit in both at the same time. I would have liked more debate and discussion especially since the topic of this class is so contested.
