This course is not for everyone. If you are willing to put in the work to learn at the feet of one of the greatest minds of our time, then this is the course for you. If you're looking for an easy ride, then steer clear.
This is one of the few classes at Harvard that will actually challenge you and change the way you think. I often find myself sitting at lunch or walking around and thinking about something Mansfield discussed in class. This is not a class where you will memorize a few made-up theories, regurgitate them on an exam, and go on your way. Do not let Professor Mansfield's reputation for being conservative prevent you from taking this classfirstly, because you should confront people who disagree with you, this is college, that's the point, and secondly, because his political conservatism is rarely evident in this class (much less than liberal professors' political opinions are evident in their classes). Professor Mansfield is by far the deepest thinker you will find at Harvard and while this is a political science class rather than a political philosophy class, often times the class does get philosophical. It is very interesting to see Rousseau's or Hobbes's influence on the American founding for anyone who has read these books or intends to do so. In sum, this is a class on two of America's most important books by Harvard's most serious professor. This is what an education is about. If you even just sit in on the first class, it will be readily apparent how much deeper this class is than your typical Harvard government class. (Also make sure you actually do all the reading. While this class is mostly just Mansfield lecturing, you will not learn nearly as much as you would if you read everything that was assigned.)
It is necessary to be experienced in writing political philosophy papers
If you're considering a class on American political theory, take this one. Harvard offers very few classes on the topic and Professor Mansfield relishes in the opportunity to opine on the genius of the Founders and their lasting contributions to the world.
This is mean, but what really pulls this course down is the kids who take it. The quality of discussion sucks. It's a Gov seminar, and the easiest one... so arguably the easiest major, and the easiest seminar, and you have a decent number of kids looking to coast. Harvey taught interesting things. But we just listened to him because everyone had lackluster ideas to interrupt with, and not many people read.
The highlight of this course is getting to hear Prof Mansfield's analysis on the Federalist and Democracy in America. A student will get as much out of this course as he puts in.
This is one of the best classes (if not the best class) I have ever taken. I would absolutely recommend it!
not only will you learn a lot... you'll also laugh a lot
