One of the best courses I've taken as a Gov concentrator. Muirhead is quite possibly the best lecturer I've encountered at Harvard.
If Professor Muirhead returns from Dartmouth tot each this course again, take it! It was a painless way to spend a semester with American political theory. Professor Muirhead  wove in the right amount of philosophy, history, and discussion of current events to make this an enjoyable course regardless of one's interest in political thought. The TF's, John and Sergio was outstanding as well! Great way to fulfill the political thought government requirement.
This is a pretty great class to fulfill your theory requirement for Government, especially if you're a big American history buff, like me. The reading list is great and it's definitely stuff you should get to know if you want to feel more American. It's a relatively straightforward class with a midterm, a paper and a final. Lectures are hit and miss.
Keep up with the readings over the course of the semester (good amount of reading, but it's all interesting) and go to lecture. Prof. Muirhead clearly loves what he's teaching and is extremely engaging!
This was one of the best courses I've ever taken. It was certainly the best set of lectures. Professor Muirhead is an incredible lecturer. Though it was eventually revealed that he has strong political leanings, he was able to present each of the authors' ideas as if they were his own. The readings were concise and on point. The discussions were great, and often got heated. I took this class as a complete elective senior spring, and I am so glad I did!
Muirhead is a phenomenal lecturer - honestly one of the best teachers I have had at Harvard
Muirhead is a superb lecturer, the content of the course is really interesting, and the readings are both super interesting and not terribly necessary to doing well in the course, making them perfect "put off until reading period and then actually enjoy them" material. If this course is offered again, definitely take it.
If you can take this course with Russ Muirhead, do it. Even if you can't, it will be worth your while to attend a few lectures.
I would not have taken this course if I still did not need to fulfill my theory requirement for gov, and I would caution students to SHOP IT FIRST and make sure that you can sit through the lectures without surfing the internet or falling asleep or both. The professor literally stands there and just talks at you for an hour, and sometimes it is really hard to remain engaged with what he is saying. All in all, if you are a person who really likes political theory then go for it. If not, this may not be the course for you.
This course is the best course I have taken at Harvard! I was not looking forward to the political theory requirement, but this was a great course! Take this course if you like American politics/history; you will love this course!
This is an excellent course. The lectures are clear, the professor is enthusiastic, and it is easy to make thematic connections between different weeks' material. I would highly recommend taking this class if you have any interest in American history or democratic theory.
Professor Muirhead is by far the most engaging lecturer I have encountered at Harvard so far. If he returns, take anything and everything that he teaches!
Incredible class. I wish Professor Muirhead taught here at Harvard permanently. The lectures amazingly felt very structured and spontaneous at the same time. John was one of the best TFs I've had at Harvard, leading great class discussions and giving excellent feedback on assignments. Of course, the course material is really enjoyable if you're interested in American history and political theory in general.
The class is not an easy gem, but it's also not incredibly difficult. The great thing about it is that it requires you to do the reading because of the way the exams are structured. But if you actually do the readings, which you end up having to do, you will get a ton from this class. I am leaving a more thoughtful and more informed person because of this class. Definitely worth taking.
Good subject and interesting reading. Only some reservations because of lecture - no handouts, PowerPoints, or anything to help you follow along.
Cool idea, but the class wasn't organized that well. Hard to follow the lectures, hard to make sense of what exactly the professor wants us to take out of the class. The assignments weren't difficult, especially the paper assignment, but I didn't think the midterm format was very fair - quote IDs (where you simply identify the title of the world) and an essay. Since you aren't really held accountable for the reading regularly, you really have to put in a lot of your own time if you want to get a lot out of this.
While Prof. Muirhead is well-intentioned, the exceptionalalmost enthusiasticdisorganization of the class contributed to a profound sense that the material was random, and the assignments and grading were arbitrary. For instance, it was only less than 36 hours before the final that the format of the exam was actually distributed, which if nothing else simply seemed frankly disrespectful to hard-working students trying earnestly to do well.Additionally, lectures frequently had no obvious connection to the readings, and would have benefited tremendously from outlines or other materials distributed to students. It was rarely, if ever, clear what we were supposed to have gained from a given week. This could have been a great class, but I was extremely disappointed.
Probably the most painless of the Political Theory subfield courses you can take as a Gov concentrator. Unless you're somehow really into Machiavelli.
Great lecturer, but does not use slides so it gets easy to become a little lost. Midterm quote IDs were terribly difficult, but it seems they learned their lesson for the final and made the quotes more manageable.
This class is an extremely easy, intro-level and accessible survey of, as the title suggests, the history of american political thought. If you already can tell if a Federalist Paper was written by Madison or Hamilton by looking at the structure of the argument, you should not take this class as you will be stupendously bored. If you, on the other hand, didn't know that Madison and Hamilton were two of the main authors of the federalist papers, you should definitely take this class. Think of it as "History of American Politics 101".
Have a fundamental knowledge of political philosophy prior to entering this course, otherwise you will be slightly disadvantaged.
Really fantastic course. Great material that everyone should read. Both Prof. Muirhead and John were super accessible and you could tell really cared about the material. Sections and assignments were engaging!
This class covered a lot of interesting material (excellently curated syllabus, and the book, American Political Thought, is filled with other good readings) but it did not generally cover it in a super clear way. The lectures could get really unfocused, and often I didn't fell like they helped me better understand the readings, especially since they usually only covered 1-2 readings of the 6-8 we had each week. Work requirements are reasonable. Prof. Muirhead is super passionate about the subject overall.
Even though the lectures rambled on sometimes, Professor Muirhead's lectures were often inspiring and always thought-provoking. Also, John Harpham's section was incredibly efficient and interesting. My favorite class at Harvard so far.
Do not hesitate, take the class. There is no way you will regret it.
Take it! It is fascinating material, very sweet TFs and professor who genuinely care about their students and helping them succeed.
This was an extremely accessible and engaging class! Prof Muirhead is an excellent lecturer and his lectures do a great job of supplementing course readings.
I absolutely loved this course. It was one of the most enriching, meaningful academic experiences I've had at Harvard, and I wish Prof Muirhead would be around to continue teaching it. It made me understand the basis of this country, both at its founding and today, in a very new way. Muirhead is charismatic, brilliant, and honest with his opinions and interpretations of thinkers, and I now think about the principles of this nation in a context he illustrated over the semester.
It's a great class (Muirhead is a great professor!) but the midterm and final are harder than you might think.
The professor is amazing and the material engaging. Great for anybody who is interested in American politics in literally any capacity.
Prof. Muirhead is an effective and engaging orator, making it impossible to not engage with him and material he brings up. Course is a great survey course of American political history through primary sources and great for second-semester seniors as well, despite the young make up of the class more generally
Go to lecture, professor Muirhead is a very good lecturer.
There is little work for this class- just an essay, a midterm, and a final. However, it is not exactly easy-, keep up the with the readings! Otherwise, you are screwed for the midterm and final. Some of them are dense, but they're very interesting. Muirhead is also an incredible lecturer.
Wow. I can't even begin to explain how AMAZING this course is. Professor Muirhead is able to weave in so many valuable lessons about life in general and his knowledge of American political theory is astounding! Also, Diane is also an amazing TF! Her sections were always so interesting and thought-provoking. Hands down one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
If you are considering this course but you are not a gov concentrator, it would be wise not to consider it anymore. This course assumes a significant amount of gov background knowledge and it's really evident that there is a significant focus on such material. There is also minimal feedback provided on exams and assignments. Even two or three word phrases are used to evaluate entire essays. This is also the first course I have taken in which a make-up midterm exam was strangely given. Overall, this course did not meet my expectations.
This was the first gov class I have taken at Harvard and it was fantastic. Lectures were incredible. Muirhead is hilarious, awesome, and truly cares about the students + practical applications of the theory. The readings are interesting and pertinent (this was the first class I actually did 100% of the readings for purely because they were interesting and I wanted to). Take this class if you are remotely interested in the subject!
Professor Muirhead is an incredible lecturer.
This class provides a great opportunity to review and study American history through the lens of the development of American political thought.
Exams are much more strenuous than the lectures and sections would suggest
This was by far the best course I've taken at Harvard!  It was incredibly interesting to read all of the founders and learn about American political thought.  I feel like a much more knowledgable person now - I have read many of the classic pieces that people always talk about but don't actually know what they say.  Professor Muirhead is amazing and gives the most fantastic lectures.  If Professor Murihead teaches the class again (or any other class), take it!!!
This class was fun and enlightening.
Professor Muirhead is an absolute joy. He could make reading the phonebook fun; I highly recommend giving him a shot.
Great class, passage identification for midterm is a little excessive however.
Go to lecture! Muirhead will outline the main arguments of the readings for you during lecture and he's a great, easy-to-understand, engaging lecturer. The passage IDs on the midterm were fair, but the passage IDs on the final were much harder; essay prompts on both were fairly easy. The paper prompt is incredibly doable, but I think they graded it a bit tougher than they needed to.
Take a ton of notes during lecture and you'll be in great shape. The reading will seem impenetrable at first, but Professor Muirhead will emphasize everything that is essential from the readings in lecture.
It's a good class, no doubt. You'll read and discuss all the important aspects of early American political thought. Beware the lack of lecture slides, and somewhat ambiguous topics from time to time. Pretty standard gov class, with extra bonus for good teaching staff and interesting subject (I'm a U.S. citizen so may be partial).
Muirhead was incredible and every single lecture was enjoyable- I genuinely looked forward to going to class and hearing what he had to say about political thought over time. The one thing I would say is that the midterm and final were difficult and the quote IDs were very very challenging. It is a lot to ask students to cite quotes from 67 pieces of dense writing. If you put the time and energy into it, it is definitely feasible however I wish the exams were slightly more reasonable.
If you're looking for an easy political thought requirement this course if for you. If you want a class with a greater analysis or to alter you approach to the subfield, this class if not for you. Muirhead is a very engaged professor with great stories and ideas--but it's hard to figure out what you are supposed to learn, or what is going to best tested on. Furthermore, the depth of learning is not harsh, but their grading can be very arbitrary. The readings are good, but if you want something more in-depth go elsewhere.
Muirhead is an exceptional lecturer - his classes are exceptionally engaging. Definitely take this course if you are interested in brushing up on U.S. history or would like to bring little more theoretical background to debates still raging today. Don't fall behind on readings.
Muirhead is a genius! PLEASE take advantage of his teaching.
Awesome course! Muirhead is maybe the most enjoyable professor I've had at Harvard. Incredibly engaging, lecture was a pleasure, and still very laid back, funny, etc. Can't recommend enough.
Gov 1080 is super easy, but you should go to lectures. The ID materials on the midterm and final exams were usually the ones he read aloud in class. I hardly read any of the material until the night before the two exams and did fine.
This was perhaps the best course I took all year. Prof. Muirhead is an absolutely amazing professor and lecturer. He engages so well with political thought and is so good at placing these political theory debates into modern context.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Honestly one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, if not the best. Really informative and thought provoking about the ideological basis of our country and how that shaped todays world. Could not recommend more.
This course is pretty gemmy. Professor Muirhead is a great lecturer and I found the material very interesting. The assignments are manageable.
The professor is really nice and wholesomely entertaining, and the readings are good, as long as you like 18th and 19th American literature. The midterm and the final are killer, which means you should start studying for them ahead of time and make sure to stay on top of the readings. Nonetheless, the TFs are accessible. My TF was a pretty harsh grader, but she was a good instructor; TFs are pretty much luck of the draw which can make this class very enjoyable or not enjoyable at all. Overall, solid course for a gov class, though I think it is more philosophical than most.
For anyone interested in American politics and ideology needs to take this course. No fluff. This class takes your through the canon of core readings, speeches, and movements that have come to define our ideas in government and society.
This class actually provides a pretty good overview of foundational American Political Thought. You get to read all of the seminal texts from the Founding Fathers as well as some more obscure but insightful documents. Definitely an interesting course to get a better picture of American government.Couple words of warning: 1) If you don't like reading for class, you probably won't like the Passage ID sections on the exams. Memorizing texts, titles, and authors doesn't feel like you're doing much to contribute to your lasting education. 2) Professor Muirhead is a great lecturer, but if you're from outside of the Northeast, you may be a bit taken aback by his portrait of Middle America. Despite what he says in class, Middle America is not simply a place where dusty cobwebs clutter the farmer's wholesome mind.That being said, it's still a pretty good course.
This is the single best course I have taken during my Harvard career. Professor Muirhead is incredibly entertaining, it is a shame he doesn't teach here full-time.
If you've never had an American Politics class before, this class is phenomenal. It gives an overview of political thought from the revolution to FDR and Reagan. The lectures are amazing and Muirhead is an amazing professor. Take this class!
Really great class! Highly recommend! The lectures are super interesting, it's easy to stay engaged. The work load is totally manageable.
MUS TAKE! This has been my absolute favorite government class that I've taken here. Professor Muirhead is enthusiastic about the material and gives engaging lectures on it. It was really cool to have readings written by the founding fathers, Lincoln, and other great political thinkers and see how their ideas connected to politics today. Do the readings! They're worthwhile and interesting.
BY FAR the best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Please take this class if you have the chance, even if you're only remotely interested in American political thought.
This class is so interesting, Murihead is an amazing lecturer! The readings are so great if you're into American history. The only thing that sucked were the quotes on the exams, that was tough. Otherwise, definitely recommend this course.
really great for understanding how the Founders had intended the country to function, the reason behind it, and how it had evolved with subsequent interpretations.However, readings are a lot (some are dry and boring, depends on the writer/time period) and it is important to know how to skim for important ideas than read the pieces word for word. Muirhead is a great lecturer and really does well to make the readings converse with each other, so definitely pay attention in lecture even when it seems like he is going off on a tangent.
Awesome class, necessary to understand our current political situation
dope class. make sure you study passage ID's though.
I enjoyed this class. It was really interesting for me to read the works of some of America's most famous thinkers, though often there is a lot of reading. The professor was very engaging and funny during lecture.
low-work, about american politics
Take this class! No matter how many, or how little, government classes you've taken, American Political Thought with Professor Muirhead is one of those must-take classes at Harvard. It was hands-down one of the best classes I've taken here. Professor Muirhead is a brillant, engaging lecturer who presents the course material in a thoughtful, refreshing way. I honestly believe that every person at Harvard, if not every college student in America, should take this course
If you are interested in learning about key figures and events in American history, take this course. However, note that the course is a bit disorganized and the readings can be time-consuming, especially if you procrastinate.
If Professor Muirhead is teaching it, absolutely take this course! His lectures are amazing! He is great at explaining theoretical concepts to students with no background in political theory. This course also makes you realize how little you know about the ideological conflicts behind the design of the US government beyond what you learned in high school US history.
any class that weighs passage identification heavily demands a level of skepticism
This course is very interesting and definitely relevant. However, it sometimes feels a little scattered because there isn't exactly a structure. Also, while Professor Muirhead is a great lecturer, he doesn't use a PowerPoint or any kind of visual aid, so make sure to pay attention and take good notes. Be sure to stay on top of the reading, which isn't excessive but does pile up if you start to neglect it. I'd definitely recommend taking brief notes on every reading and selecting a few important quotes from each reading, which will be really helpful when it's time to study for the exams. The tests themselves are tough, but not as tough as Muirhead makes them sound, so definitely study hard for them but don't obsess over them.
The Professor is an amazing lecturer. That alone makes the course worthwhile.
It's just a lot of reading, and the reading is critical to success in the class. The lectures are somewhat dry at times.
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard. Though I do not usually enjoy theory or philosophy courses, this class spurred me to think deeply about the meaning of the United States and its history. Lectures were absolutely phenomenal -- Muirhead is one of the best lecturers I've ever had.
This class has very interesting material but, I highly recommend taking this only after a foundational political theory class.
The class was great and really the material was really interesting and definitely something everyone should take
This class thoroughly explains the history of American political thought.
You should take this class. It was one of the most interest classes I have taken at Harvard. You get a chance to read most of the great writings of American political history. Muirhead is funny and gives entertaining and great lectures. Sometimes he gets very off topic with his stories but he is always interesting and fun. If he is teaching it take the class. Most of the work is reading there was only a midterm a final and one paper so it is not a huge time commitment. Take this class.
It is very interesting material that is taught in an exciting manner.
Super great
It's a good taste of the government department--more often than not, bland, stale, and utterly useless to your studies. Professor Muirhead is lovely and holds a passion for the subject, but the disorganization of the class and the wildly unfair exam format makes this class more of a nightmare than a worthwhile academic experience. Muirhead does not use slides for his lectures-- making you feel as if you've been placed into a Harvard Law School class-- and section was a big waste of time (my TF often showed up late). You could probably put in minimal work for this class and get a B, but I would encourage you to look at other classes. This class made me realize how much I do not want to do government. Plus, taking this class right after the election, you would hope for more connections with modern politics, but that was incredibly lacking.
I enjoyed reading speeches and essays from the big names in American history: Adams, Madison, Jefferson, Paine, the Anti-Federalists, Lincoln, etc. The feedback on the work I received was somewhat disappointing, since I received minimal remarks, which complimented my work, only to receive grades I was not fully satisfied with.
Muirhead is one of the best lecturers I have ever witnessed.  That being said it isn't the best structured class.  It reminded me why I don't take gov classes.  But Muirhead was worth it.  First time I went to offive hours ever and he was the most incredible perosn to talk to.  Perfect class to take pass/fail.
Definitely do NOT take this class expecting an easy base-level Gov class. This was my first Gov class and it was a huge mistake because I had no idea what I was getting myself into. Tons of reading and difficult exams. However, Muirhead is a really engaging lecture and the lectures and section themselves were quite enjoyable, if you had managed to do the reading ahead of time.
Lecture is amazing. Midterm/Final passage IDs are awful. Section is not the best (highly depends on TF). Super interesting material, not the best structure, it's a tradeoff.
Future students should be aware that this course has great material but I left lecture every time thinking that I could have used my time better. Lecture probably not required in order to succeed in this class. It's more about just understanding the main concepts from the readings. In general it is not a hard class but the test format of the IDs are really brutal.
Definitely attend the lectures - they're fantastic. The assignments and section need improvement, not through any fault of the section leaders, but just the way the course is designed.
Gem class! Interesting readings that change your views on the "founding fathers". The class is well-taught, and will truly shape your perspective on American political thought.
I loved this class!! Professor Muirhead is an AMAZING lecturer, and definitely take advantage of going to his office hours! The readings are also really interesting in the way they tie into lecture. Just one warning!: you can get away with not doing the readings for weekly section, but you will need to know all of them for the tests, so make sure you keep up with them!
Will be fascinating and valuable for anyone remotely interested in democratic politics or their history, practice, or theory.
Take this course with Muirhead! You'd be hard-pressed to find a better, more fun, and more relatable lecturer. The course changed my view of the Constitution. But, it also both challenged and reaffirmed what I knew of American politics through clear lectures and extensive use of primary sources. One of the best courses I've taken here.
Tests can be difficult, but is a solid class
This is one of those quintessential college classes. Professor Muirhead is funny and engaging, and you'll come out of this class with a new perspective on American political thought as well as some pretty good life advice.
don't take it, poorly run
This class was super interesting and a had an overall low workload. Muirhead is a super interesting lecturer and you can really learn a lot. Do a classroom to table with him! He's super cool. You can skate by without doing the readings each week but that will end up coming back to bite you on the Midterm/Final because unless they change the course you'll literally need to memorize dozens of authors/titles and know a ton of random quotes from the readings. Studying for the final was one of the most stressful experiences I've had at Harvard. But overall still a great class with low work that I thoroughly enjoyed. I learned a lot about political thought! Pretty good way to fulfill the theory requirement. Would advise taking the next time Muirhead is back!
This course is an absolutely amazing introduction to the history and ideas of American political thought. Professor Muirhead does an excellent job of keeping students engaged and attentive during lecture, not only covering the subject matter but linking it to things far beyond the classroom with anecdotes or commentary on current affairs. While the readings are substantial and require a deep degree of investment, they, and the class, are definitely worth the effort if you're willing.
A great class for those who are not huge fans of political theory but enjoy American history and politics. Explores interesting historical political though processes and tying that to the current political narrative.
This class is a gem. The lectures were always fascinating and engaging. The readings were not too demanding and they did not necessarily have to be completed in a timely manner; they were very flexible with your schedule. Muirhead is a PHENOMENAL professor. I was really in awe by his ability to put up three bullet points on the board and then just speak for an hour about each one as his discussion flowed smoothly from one point to the next. He is by far the best presenter I have ever seen in class or in seminars. He really is passionate about the subject material and feel that I learned a lot in just one course -- definitely take this class!!!
I absolutely loved this course. Professor Muirhead is a fun and engaging lecturer. The lectures often fall behind the readings because of the stories Professor Muirhead tells, but they hit the main points of the course and section covers whatever is missed. I enjoyed going to lecture every week, and Professor Muirhead really gets you to think and question your pre-existing beliefs. The readings were fantastic, too. They were a bit dry and lengthy at times (because they were older texts), but I found it immensely enriching to read pieces I had heard about in history class before and delve into the beliefs motivating the founders. I often found myself vigorously agreeing or disagreeing with the authors, and annotating my book accordingly. In the current political climate, the class really was helpful in understanding what is happening, determining how earlier political figures envisioned American politics, and forcing me to think about the type of politics and political system I wanted to see. Assignment-wise, the paper and exams were quite reasonable, with plenty of choice in prompts and easily identifiable passages if you did the reading.
AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING. take it, so gripping, so interesting, Muirhead is a beast and such a great lecturer. Learned so much from this course, one of my favorites by far. Not a hard class in terms of requirements, but difficult in a good way in that the content will challenge you and make you think.
This is a fantastic course. You will learn so much about american political thought. The reading selections were excellent and Prof. Muirhead is a great lecturer. I just wish we got more feedback on assignments and sections were more standardized.
Muirhead is a phenomenal lecturer but the material, at least to me, is very dry and uninteresting. There are certainly some material that is interesting, but my section took more interesting spins on the actual material so that was good.
Classes like this are the reason why I went to Harvard. The professor is so thoughtful and this course has genuinely changed my understanding of the world. Best class I've taken at the school by far. It's a shame muirhead is just a visiting professor.
