Ziblatt and Nadler are the best teaching tandem I have ever learned from
I loved this class. The requirements aren't too stressful, and the material is so interesting. You leave the class with a great framework of European politics and ideas concerning political change.
This is a great gov course! Prof. Ziblatt is a great lecturer and takes questions from students after class. Assignments are moderate and fair. The final-exam and second midterm are take home. You develop a very good understanding of the history of Europe and the trajectory of European politics. I think it is a great course to fulfill the gov comparative requirement. Not too much work. I recommend it!
It is a really interesting class taught by great people. You may be tempted to zone out for most of the course given that the assignments are few and far between, but I'd encourage you to stay on top of it and get to know both Ziblatt and Nadler very well.
A must if you are interested in the development of Democracy!
Be prepared for a wonderful historical perspective on Europe's development!
Take it if you can! It's a great starting point for government classes and understanding current events.
Keep up with the reading! It's really easy to get behind and then give up.
This government class was fun because I did the readings and wanted to learn. if you want it to be easy, it can be very easy though. Lectures can sometimes go off topic but Professor Ziblatt is brilliant and incredibly friendly. Go to office hours with a question and he can explain to you the entire history of European development. The section and TF Nadler were insanely good. I really am walking away with a whole to perception of how democratization occurs.
Very light reading for a gov course. The course covers from the feudal period and onward, so you don't go really in depth into specific periods, but it gives you a broad picture of what made Europe today. Professor Ziblatt is an engaging lecturer and as long as you listen to him during lecture, you are guaranteed not to fail.
This is a fantastic class and you should take it! You learn a lot and walk away with a better understanding of European state building and the future of the EU. It's taught well, lectures are interesting and Professor Ziblatt is great at making it seem like a small class even though we had about 50 students.
If you want to learn from an incredible Professor about both how history influences the modern world and how we can use comparative cases to assess/predict political outcomes across the globe, then this is the course for you.
This class is really great and allows you to take the history of European democratization to apply it to what is happening today and might happen in the future.
This class is well structured and well organized. Both Professor Ziblatt and Daniel Nadler are extremely knowledgeable about the subject matter which makes for interesting lectures and sections. By taking this class you'll learn a lot about the history of the formation of Europe and how it impacts the state Europe is in today. This class is also great because while it's interesting, the workload is very manageable.
Gov 1170 is great gov course because it allows you to tackle a modest amount of readings and master the material. It is a great region-specific gov course.
A great class. Might be difficult if it is the first government class you've taken, and you will succeed more if you are genuinely interested in EU politics and economics. It is small and lectures are often discussion-based. Highly recommend.
