Very interesting topic, very knowledgable professor
If you are interested in war and international relations, you would be a fool not to take this class.  Unlike a lot of the liberal, in-the-clouds professors here at Harvard, Professor Braun approaches every issue in IR from a rational, logical, and practical perspective and truly helps you gain a realistic understanding of what is going on in the world today.
You end up learning very little because it is so disorganized
This course is arguably the best course Harvard has too offer. Professor Braun is absolutely amazing. Can't recommend it enough.
Interesting class, but not enough engaging discussion
It's really easy and interesting. You don't need to do any of the reading, and you can still keep up with the class discussion.
SO GOOD. if you're interested in this topic, the readings are great, the discussions are great, and Professor Braun is super knowledgable
Professor Braun knows everything about IR history, particularly around WWII and the Cold War. It's very fun to hear his anecdotes, but it also feels often like reading and discussing the same material each week. It's really a class all about nuclear deterrence
The course is a great overview of military instrument of foreign policy. It is a bit of work that is end-loaded as far as the semester is concerned, but overall an enjoyable and manageable course.
Many weeks, doing the readings still didn't provide a good grasp on what the theme of that week was. The class is easy enough to handle on a week to week basis since it's mostly discussion and there isn't much graded work. But, finding a topic for the final paper (which together with the outline and the actual paper is 60% of the grade) can be very difficult since the course doesn't really jump out with themes.
Be prepared to talk about nuclear deterrence for an entire semester, which is an interesting topic but only one issue that the course could address. It felt that alternative topics like counterinsurgency or the future of war were rushed at the end when people were already thinking about other things, even though most students wrote about these topics on their final papers. It definitely could have helped the course if nuclear deterrence were only one issue touched upon at the beginning. Because it came up every week, conversations started to feel circular.
Great readings. Good professor. Just wished he took more time to lecture in class and held us more accountable for readings like weekly response papers.
The subject matter and assigned readings are interesting. I am not sure I found the actual two our seminar meeting a productive or instructive.
This course is a little out of date and focuses almost exclusively on nuclear proliferation. I was expecting to cover a lot of different topics regarding the military and policy and somehow the professor always turned the conversation back to nuclear proliferation.
This seminar should have been called "Nuclear Deterrence" because it seems as though that is all we ever spoke about. I use the word spoke, rather than discussed, because Professor Braun's moderating left no room for discussion. The seminar was structured much more like office hours -- an individual student would ask a question or raise a point, Professor Braun would respond, and then the next student would speak. Because he insisted on a speaking order set by students raising their hands, usually all at once, it usually meant that new speakers would have new topics, while students with related questions would be forced to wait until it wasn't relevant anymore. Professor Braun was attempting to make sure everyone had a chance to speak, but this was done at the expense of true discussion.
Gov94fp is a great class! very very easy workload, interesting readings, and professor braun is super approachable. sections can be boring and take too long, but its worth it
The material does get repetitive because there are so many variations on deterrence. However, the course and teacher are excellent.
This class was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard yet, and that's mostly because of Professor Braun's help.
This has been my favorite class at Harvard. The material is fascinating and the readings are great. Professor Braun is so knowledgeable and great at facilitating discussion. I learned so much in this class and it inspired me to pursue a thesis in one of the topics covered.
The material you cover in this course is interesting, but the class itself is not engaging and the assignments are uncreative.
Prof. Braun gave me excellent feedback on my final paper proposal, and helped me narrow a far-too-expansive idea to a more rigorous and focused qualitative paper. The format of the course (student presentations on the readings each week, followed by discussions of the readings that brought in additional examples) was helpful in establishing a baseline interpretation of the readings from which everyone operated and ensuring that everyone was able to give a substantial presentation during the semester.
This is a successful seminar in covering a broad reach of topics in a short period of time. Professor Braun is quite knowledgeable and provides great insight to the examination of the issues covered.
