Be prepared for poor, unsatisfying arguments of very interesting material.
This class is fantastic, especially if it fulfills a requirement.
This course was interesting, fun (and funny), and well taught. If they change the topics for the second half of the semester, it can become one of the best courses at Harvard.
This class might be worth auditing for the first couple classes.  I dont know if it was worth actually taking.
There is an astounding and wonderful array of ideas brought to the table and expertly and fully entertained by the professors. I think that the professors did a professional job of balancing their own views with the interest of teaching an unbiased class.
Great material, not particularly challenging.
This course is very exciting and fun, and will get you to think about the various issues affecting today's society.  This course is a fun and moderately easy way of fulfilling a concentration requirement - but can also be a very philosophically stimulating elective!
If you find this set of issues even remotely interesting, this class will be like a playground for you. If you really try hard not to get anything out of the class, you can manage that too, but then why would you take it? Get excited about this course.
light reading, lecture is fun and interesting
Pretty interesting discussions.
Extremely interesting, not too difficult, low workload, can get out of it what you want.
Interesting and an easy, painless way to fulfill the political theory requirement for government.
It discusses many very interesting topics that are relevant to our current and future society.
doug melton is awesome
It is fantastic to get to take a class with Douglas Melton and Michael Sandel, because their rapport is great and they are both funny and engaging.
The class is much more interesting when you do the readings, but the readings are not necessary to enjoy the class.
The class was interesting but is kind of hard.
This class is one of the best you'll take at Harvard and a great way to fill the political theory subfield for Gov concentrators.  The debates are relevant, controversial, and interesting.  Moreover, before you graduate everyone should take a class with Sandel and Melton.  They're amazing and compliment one another really well.
Sometimes the lectures seemed less than cohesive, but the issues discussed are very interesting.
An informative and enjoyabe introduction to bioethics.
Possibly the best class I have taken at Harvard.
This is an amazing class--Professors Sandel and Melton are truly talented, funny, engaged and they care.  The material is very stimulating.  I am  not an academic guy, but this course made me think.
great class if you want to think collectively about bioethical issues. Not so hot for people who expect a lot of philosophical treatment of them.
Best class
This would be a great class to take pass/fail for an elective or within the one allowed by the GOV department.  The response papers are short (4 pages) and the final doesn't hold you too accountable for the readings.  The lectures are interesting, worthwhile, and relevant.
It's a lot of fun and it covers a bunch of interesting topics.
It's a great clas that will teach you a lot about an incredibly important and timely subject matter.
Take it pass/fail
This is an extremely interesting topic, however, you need to do the readings and think before coming to section. The moral reasoning aspect of this course requires that you come up with your own theories in these different areas, a task that is hard to do in section itself.
It's really easy.
Take it pass-fail.
great class!! gives you the information you need to develop your viewpoint on present day issues (like stem cell research) that you may agree with or disagree with, but not be able to quite articulate why!
A good way to put principles learned in Justice into practice.
Be prepared to have your opinions challenged.
Great, manageable course.
Sitting through a two-hour lecture can be pretty rough, but it went quickly in weeks when we had guest speakers or video conferences (about half of the semester's lectures did so).  The topics are fascinating, and the course really makes you think.  The response papers are not long, but they do take a lot of thought and care to do well.
It is an interesting and timely course with little answers and lots of repeating
The material was very interesting, but the structure of lectures was somewhat frustrating because there was too much time given to students' thoughts and not enough time given to the professors to speak thoughtfully and in an organized manner about the issues being discussed. Also, many of the issues and the discussions about them became repetitive.
Fun, interesting, fairly easy. I loved this class.
This class is great to learn about interesting moral issues.
TAKE THIS CLASS. And pick a good TF.
brings up many important issues, but class component probably not essential if you do all of the readings
If you don't mind writing papers this is the course for you
It's fun, easy and interesting, but you don't learn a lot.
You will have to confront some serious issues and really try to find out what you believe.  Thus, an intellectually stimulating, challenging, and satisfying class.
Since this class only meets once a week, it's really tempting to just watch the lecture videos (I know that's what I did).  But really, you should go to class.
I would recommend this class highly.  It allows for the opportunity to explore moral philosophy on issues that will surely be pertinent to our lives both today and in the future.  Sandel and Mendel were both gems.  The debate tension between the two is great.  I would highly recommend a background in political philosophy.  Justice, in particular, is helpful.
An excellent, interesting class on the cutting edge.
You learn a lot in this course.
Best class I have taken at Harvard.
It is very fun and interesting to learn about the future of bioethics, which will be a huge concern in the near future, and the many different perspectives that arise from it.
Really interesting topics that are important to consider. Sandel and Melton are also an amazing combination and provide both the scientific background as well as moral/political philosophy to exam these issues.
don't miss it.
Great class.  Learned a ton.  Professor Milton and Sandel are incredible
please take it!  Teaches you how to think critically about extremely difficult and controversial subjects.
It has a light workload and the course material is very interesting.
There is something really great about delving on such an intellectual level with two outstanding figures of their respective fields. But it's not just them; even more so, they engage with us.
It really makes you think and it doesn't clog up your time.
Prepare to be challenged and pushed on interesting topics not covered in many other classes
class was both topical and enlightening.
It's easy, interesting, and fun.
This is a good class, but not as good as Justice.
Great class for Senior spring -- very engaging and painless.
This is a great class if you want to voice your opinions on important topics in current events!
Sections only related loosely to the lectures- better organization is needed here
This is a great course to learn how to exercise your own thinking, formulate well constructed arguments, debate and interact with other students and learn about some of the key scientific controversies of our time. The workload is also very manageable and this is a great class to fulfill the government requirement for political theory.
The class will probably disorient you in the beginning because it aims to upset the conventional understanding of matters in bioethics. In the end, however, you will develop a much clearer understanding of where you stand on most ethical issues.
If you want to take a compelling, thought-provoking class with great professors-- and have relatively manageable reading and requirements, this is definitely the class to take.
Interesting course material, engaging discussions, little class time, light course load
If you don't like classes with student participation, I would not take this course.  However, the material is very interesting, and we had good discussion every week in section.  Professors Sandel and Melton are very knowledgeable about the subject.
It's great; the two professors who teach it are amazing!
This class will help you to refine what your moral boundaries are, and does so in a really interesting, dynamic way. This course is pretty awesome.
Diversity of the subject matter that we delved into was excellent. I really enjoyed the discussion-based format of both lecture and section. Melton and Sandel are fantastic presenters. I hope this course continues, because it was the most thought-provoking experience of my semester, while also being very manageable in the courseload. My section classmates and I keep in touch and continue many of our arguments outside of class, even long after the course has ended. The questions that arise in this course are critical to our entire society's preparation for the future, and I urge anyone to take this course to better their understanding of the increasing role of bioengineering in the imminent future.
This is a good course which covers interesting material. There is a disincentive to do work, however, since the papers are only for five weeks of the class. If you're self-motivated then you'll get a lot more out of the class.
The subject matter for this course is really fascinating so you can take the course on that basis entirely. However, I'm not sure that the format of this course allowed for us to really delve into these topics in a meaningful and worthwhile way.
Do take the time to understand the moral theories and what they really mean in the context of class discussions.
This class is an interesting and relatively painless way to complete your ethical reasoning requirement, especially if you find the topics of the class to be interesting. Lecture is engaging and depends a lot on students contributing, and section is completely participation based so make sure you've done the readings before section at least if not before lecture. There are 5 4-page papers due over the course of the semester but you have a lot of freedom in what weeks you choose to do them and because there is no midterm or final this is a really great class if you have a lot of midterms or final exams / papers / projects because you can do all 5 papers early in the semester and be done with them.
This class is great to fulfill the ER gen-ed or political theory requirement with Government, but it is difficult to feel that there is a constructive theme that is built upon throughout the course as a whole. It is difficult to know what is expected of students in the first couple of papers, but it eventually becomes very manageable. Interesting themes are covered in class, and Professor Melton and Professor Sandel have great perspectives!
A great class to fulfill ER Gen-Ed credit.  Meets once a week for lecture and once a week for section. Prof Melton and Prof Sandel are two of the most of the amazing people are Harvard.  Also, you can choose when you write the papers, and it is great to work this into a busy schedule.  The grading is tough enough, so you do have to write good papers.
Very interesting and relevant topics of discussion for anyone interested in exploring contemporary ethical dilemmas. Great for the aspiring policymaker or person seeking to better nuance their argumentation. That being said, beware that this class is graded very harshly, so expect a B to a B+ on all assignments without any meaningful feedback on how to improve. Readings were interesting, but ultimately became optional because they were never used for lecture, section, or papers.
Fascinating discussion topics, fascinating professors. You will have to take the response papers very seriously, and make sure you understand the grading criteria!
The partnership between Professor Sandel and Professor Melton is what made this course so enjoyable.  The subject matter is incredibly interesting, and the lecture discussions are a great pleasure.  Take this course if only to hear two of the leading thinkers in their respective fields speak about some of the most pressing issues of our time.
Lectures can become frustratingly circular, but sections are interesting and the debates themselves are very thought-provoking. You don't learn any"thing" but it just helps develop a way of thinking and arguing and writing about the morally grey, which can seem rewarding or not rewarding on an individual basis. Very light workload.
Is interesting if you've never taken a phil class (like justice) before, but the different philosophical approaches to thinking about bioethical issues gets repetitive halfway through the course
If you have an opportunity to take this course, you most definitely should! It's a one-of-a-kind course where you are exposed to new ways of thinking about current issues regarding technology. Professors Sandel and Melton are great lecturers and make the classes entertaining and engaging. You will get a sense of a conversation going on in class instead of just a lecture. In addition, both professors are accessible and are always encouraging students to visit them in their office hours. James Brandt is also an awesome TF!
An absolutely fantastic class with wonderful professors who teach how to think about serious ethical questions concerning the medical and biological field. The class gives you invaluable skills in determining and thinking about different aspects of an argument and how to argue both sides of a debate. The topics were always fascinating and discussion during lecture was always well mandated by Sandel and Melton.
This class helps develop critical thinking skills very effectively and will make you think in very different ways.
This class does not make it clear how to get an A or A-. It is neither a government class nor a science class which is incredibly confusing. We discuss very interesting topics, but it is a very confused class
This class really shows you issues that are prevalent in the scientific/ethical communities but may not dominate newspaper headlines. They're important to think about and will greatly affect our futures. This class will help you think critically about contemporary issues, and you'll discover a lot about your own points of view in the process.
This class gives students the opportunity to explore the futuristic and unimaginable.
It is extremely interesting, not that time consuming, but is not easy to do well in.
Only take it if you're genuinely interested in the topics since you will probably learn as much as you apply yourself.
This course is extremely interesting, but watch out for the tfs.
This is a fun class with very low opportunity cost. The topics covered are relevant and extremely easy to have an opinion on/talk about. The professors are extremely good at lecturing.However, given how long people have studied it, I'm pretty sure that ethics is too deep of a subject for any meaningful discussion to come out of the minuscule amount of actual material that the class went over. It seems to be to ethics what reading the science section in a newspaper is to science--while it may be entertaining, you really don't gain anything more than a superficial understanding of what's going on. If you're actually interested in the ethics, you should take something at a higher level. If you want a bunch of entertaining TED-talk-ish discussions without much time cost, you should take this.
There really aren't any better ways to fulfill both the political theory AND the ethical reasoning requirement simultaneously if you're a Gov concentrator.  Just go to class and spend a day writing each of the papers and its painless.
This class is terribly formatted. With the weekly schedule in the chronological order of (1) paper due (2) lecture (3) section, every essay (and major component of your grade) is a shot in the dark, and lecture and section are essentially useless, but you have to go because they take attendance. I thought I was really going to like this class because the topics are fascinating, but the terrible structure of the class more than made up for any good aspects of the material. Definitely take a different class unless they completely revamp the way this class is run.
Not taking this class will be your biggest mistake in college.
This is a very interesting class about a very relevant topic.  The two professors are fantastic, though the sections can sometimes be tedious.  Grading in sections can be highly variable.
The topics covered are all very interesting, but the readings can be dull and the lectures sometimes devolve into the same 10 or so people speaking the whole time. Take the course if you're interested in the subject material and don't want any midterms or finals.
Lectures were amazing with Melton and Sandel. Sections were poorly run and curbed my enthusiasm for the class.
Very interesting class. I'd recommend this to concentrators in almost any field, as the topics discussed will become increasingly relevant in our lifetime. Debates in lecture can become a bit overwhelming, but section is a great opportunity for discussion and exploration of more specific viewpoints. The papers are graded somewhat harshly, so make sure you understand what your section leader is looking for in your essay.
This class really teaches you to write concisely and without conflating arguments (which I discovered is something I did a lot more than I realized), and to think much more critically about issues we encounter in daily life. It was, I think, the most rewarding GenEd I've taken here (my 7th one).
Great course! Professor Melton and Sandel have a great back and forth that is very entertaining to hear during lecture. Section tends to be a repeat discussion of lecture, so make sure to attend office hours to learn about the style of writing they would like for the course, because they won't teach you about it, unless you've taken Justice. Grading is relaxed because you choose the weeks to write, but some of the TFs create a grade distribution each week on papers, so choosing popular weeks for writing can sometimes be to your disadvantage, regardless of the level of your writing.
This class is a true gem. Super interesting lectures, amazing professors, low work and low stress, knocks out a gen ed, and counts as a gov class. You can not go wrong with this class. One of the best I've taken.
they need to organize the class better, but it is fascninating material
This is an amazing class and a wonderful opportunity to hear from two of the best professors at Harvard. The dynamic between Professor Melton and Professor Sandel never failed to engage me in lecture. They are both so intelligent, thoughtful, and--many times throughout the semester--hilarious, as they often had completely opposite viewpoints. For a science concentrator, this was a really interesting way to approach ethics, since Prof. Melton always gave the science background to the topics we were discussing, while Prof. Sandel guided us quite impressively through a true discussion (despite the large class size) of the ethical arguments. The professors have a real respect for the students. I highly recommend this course to anyone interested in the overlap between ethics and science, because you will definitely be challenged to examine some popular, controversial topics, and, even if your opinions don't change, you'll definitely take away a greater appreciation for reading and thinking about these issues.
Awesome content and easy workload- take it.
IT WAS AWESOME. Melton and Sandel bounce off each other and the topics are relevant and interesting, and it is such an awesome class, everyone needs to take it before he or she graduates.
The class is fascinating, but make sure to discuss with your section leader what he/she is looking for in the essays because mine wasn't very forthcoming about that until after we all indicated our confusion in how he wanted us to write.
TAKE THIS CLASS! This class was my favorite of the semester. The topics are really interesting, and the structure allows you to write about what you are interested in as well as when you aren't bogged down with other coursework. It was painless and interesting.
The actual topics are very interesting. The discussion often is not. People add their thoughts on debates without understanding the actual theory of ethics under what they are saying, perhaps because the course fulfils the Ethical Reasoning requirement and Gov / LS requirements, bringing in mostly people who know very little about philosophy and ethics. You do not get the kind of actual search for truth here as you would in an ethics course in the philosophy department. Sandel's arguments are very basic and you can get them very quickly from his short, easy-read books, Justice and The Case against Perfection (the course book, really about a 100 small pages and many of his arguments in lecture are in there word-for-word). Melton and Sandel are very fun to watch together and it is great that the course has both perspectives in conflict. Melton's science sections are fascinating, as someone who knows too little about science, particularly because his work is on the cutting edge and will become greatly important in the next decades. I have heard bad things about most people's section experience, particularly with Tsin Yeh, Joe, and Shim, but with a few people who have said they thought their TF was nice even if others in the same section seemed to be against in the majority. I also heard all good things about Tim, so he seems like the best option if you can figure out when he teaches.
Take it. It is interesting and does not take an enormous amount of time.
This course will force you to think about interesting and critical scientific issues of our time
Great Gen-Ed, not so great class. What I mean by this is that the workload is very low and the class is a great Gen-Ed, but the class itself is not so great. My biggest problem is with how lecture is run. The class indeed became more and more of a clash between Sandel and Melton, except this clash progressively became less interesting. They tended to avoid each other's points and bring in new lines of argument, leading to an unsatisfying debate that did not address each specific point thoroughly before moving on to the next point. In section, we similarly jumped around from point to point and ended up repeating ourselves unknowingly. We sometimes talked about topics completely unrelated to the week's topic (one week we talked about higher and lower pleasures, not the biotechnology topic of that week). Many of the comments on essays were cursory (no marginal comments) and rebuttals in the comments were really unrealistic at times. Moreover, it's absolutely impossible to address the argument in its entirety with a 1000 word limit, but TFs still criticized our essays with weak counterarguments that we could not address in the essay without giving up addressing the stronger counterarguments. It really did treat students' work in a poor manner.
The course lectures are extremely enjoyable. Both Professor Melton and Professor Sandel are brilliant individuals, and their discussions never cease to amaze me. But I feel that the section makes or breaks the course. Depending on the TF you get, you might not have a great time in sections.
The lecture arguments get super repetitive by the end of the semester. In hindsight I wish I had taken Justice instead.
The in-class portion of this class is great. It's really interesting and only meets once a week, and the papers are all you really need to worry about. Unfortunately, the papers are pretty difficult to write, as there is minimal feedback on them, and the grading is very arbitrary. My best paper received the worst grade, and my worst paper received the best. Additionally, I got half of my papers back after the course was over. All in all, however, you learn some pretty interesting things, and the 'performances' from Doug and Michael are fun to watch.
This is a fantastic course.  Gov concentrators looking for a political theory requirement should take this -- it's quite painless (and actually enjoyable) compared to other more intensive classes that meet the political theory requirement.  The one thing that bothered me was that the class lacked a lot of structure.  However, lectures were engaging and section was interesting.  The paper assignments are not bad at all.
This is definitely a difficult course, especially if you've never taken a philosophy course before. The essays are hard to write and are certainly not graded very leniently. However, I'd say it's worth it. Every topic discussed in class is really interesting, and it changed how I think about a lot of the ethical issues our society faces as technology advances.
This is a great class to get you thinking about the ethics of biotechnology, something I hadn't truly considered until this semester.
This is a really interesting class that is not overly difficult; it explores a number of topics while providing an interesting and unique point of view regarding real-world topics.
AMAZING COURSE! I honestly did not expect for this course to be as interesting and rewarding as it was. It covers topics that will be unexpectedly relevant in our lives. It was so fascinating to learn from the opposing perspectives of Melton and Sandel. Majority of the discussions in lecture were wonderful. One of my favorite courses at Harvard!
Amazing class, with two very engaged professors who know how to get a discussion started.
When writing the papers and final exam, choose your argument based on which is the easiest to defend, rather than which you think is morally or ethically correct.
This course is fantastic! Thinking about tough bioethics questions really opens your mind. I have a feeling that Prof. Melton may desensitize you to some of the issues.
This class will certainly challenge the way you see a lot of things in the world.  You learn a surprising amount about biology that will force you to rethink the way you arrive at your positions about very controversial topics.  The assignments are reasonable and always interesting.  Plus, the two-professor lecture keeps the discussion as unbiased as possible.  Also, this course is much more down-to-earth and applicable than Justice (in case you're deciding which one to take for your Ethical Reasoning GenEd).
The class is not particularly difficult, especially since there is never any test of course material (and so lecture sometimes feels unnecessary). For those who are, like me, from a science background, I often found myself agreeing wholeheartedly with Melton and disagreeing with (and being annoyed by) Sandel, who would typically make more emotional, philosophical arguments. The criteria for essay grading were extremely specific, and it is very important to understand them from essay one (since they're never made explicitly clear): provide an introduction with a roadmap, your positive argument, a clear counterargument, and your response. In this way, the class teaches you to write a very specific type of argument essay. Overall, fairly painless, but sometimes frustrating, particularly in lectures near the end of the semester, which rambled on about nothing in particular.
Very thought-provoking content. However, lectures were disorganized and predictable after awhile, basically Melton talking about the scientific background on an issue for an hour and Sandel leading a class discussion for the rest of the time. Essays are deceptively time-consuming and difficult to write well. Section was much more engaging, but also disorganized at times.
This class is the ethics of science fiction, not science. I didn't really learn anything. Ethical reasoning is painful, but at least you would be an informed citizen if you do one of the classes that requires reading more philosophy.
Not bad for a gen ed.
Doug Melton is awesome.  Take this course if only to listen to him.
this course was awesome - take it!!
I really enjoyed the topics, the materials, and how it was covered. The course also really helps you develop your analytic writing skills if you get a good tf!
This is a good course for any aspiring physician or scientist to take.
Great class. This class has taught me how to write much better than expos did, as well as it taught me how to effectively argue my points. But more importantly, the topics we examined were very entertaining and interesting, and I had to grapple with myself morally on certain issues- it made writing papers much harder, yet it made it much more rewarding. Lectures are blatantly unnecessary, yet they are fun/interesting; sections are fun- its like having a life-sesh with your peers. You will get out of the class what you put into it, so, if you do take it, try thinking about the issues in your spare time in order to receive the most reward.
The section is interesting. Lectures are very interesting when Professors Melton and Sandel are speaking but become less interesting when students debate.
One of the best classes at Harvard. Is not too difficult, I took it senior spring, had a blast and got an A
This was a really reasonable course and overall I found it enjoyable. Some of the topics felt too unrealistic to be useful and we didn't get overly into philosophical theory, but overall if was good and I feel like I did learn a new way of thinking.
Professor Melton and Professor Sandel are both great. However, the class is much more gov-oriented than biology-oriented, so be prepared for that.
Great course - very little work required, and very interesting topics. Lecture and section are a bit redundant though.
Do the readings and take the essays seriously. You can't put in a lot of fluff for 4 pages.
The lectures are entertaining and intriguing, but don't expect to learn anything new necessarily. This is a class to bring your own knowledge to, not gain.
The topics covered in this class are interesting, the workload is fair, and the teaching staff is pretty good (Doug Melton is especially entertaining). All in all, it's good for an ethical reasoning gen ed, but I didn't think it was amazing.
This course featured enormously entertaining lectures, dynamic and heated discussions in section, and really fascinating moral topics in emerging biotechnology.  The course definitely challenged me to question my moral sensibilities, and I ended up changing my perspectives on various moral issues in ultimately surprising ways.
You'll discuss a lot of interesting topics, but you won't learn much. The papers just require you to make a strong argument, but not necessarily to build on anything you learn in the class, so it really ends up feeling like expos all over again.
You absolutely need to have a philosophy background in order to do well in this class. The readings are very interesting, but lecture isn't engaging.
As a History of Science concentrator, this was the best class to fulfill my ethical reasoning requirement, but I think it still needs to be improved to work as a large lecture class.
I would tell them that the philosophical training in this class is good but it can be frustrating at times.
It is really helpful to have a philosophy background. It is much harder to write the papers if you don't.
It's interesting, but gets less so as the semester goes on.  The ethical half seems to be grasping at more and more straws as the semester progresses.  Just be prepared for that.
If they don't cap it in the future: beware. The discussion style lecture works great with a smaller group, but anything over 100 gets bogged down. Section kids dominate lecture, Sandel gets caught up talking to the kid who thinks sperm is a person, and nothing gets anywhere. The professors are brilliant though, and endlessly fun to watch interact with each other. If it's lotteried it is absolutely essential. If not it's still a decent class, but doesn't live up to its potential.
I think this is the best ethical reasoning requirement out there. The material is interesting, you get all-star professors, and the workload if light. The only draw back is that TFs grade harder than most Harvard courses.
Professors Sandel and Melton are great lecturers!
This course required very little work other than several response papers and a take-home final, and you learn a lot about topics in bioethics that are incredibly relevant today.  It would help to have taken Justice or another philosophy class previously, since the style of argument expected in the papers is difficult unless you have some experience with it.
This is a great class! Be prepared for some heavy critiques of your writing, but definitely worth it, if only to hear Professor Melton's theories about the future of biotechnology.
Unless they change the format of lectures, I wouldn't really recommend this course. Two hours is a long time to listen to people just talk about opinions.
The section component was extremely interesting to hear other students' opinions on the topics. A very "Harvard" course.
This is my favorite class from the semester, and this power duo definitely worth listen to. I prefer Prof. Melton's style and wished that he could have a more equal talking time as Prof. Sandel. My TF for the class, Kerstin Haas, was amazing, and our section always had one of the liveliest conversations.
Take it! It is an especially good class if you like to speak up. Low time commitment.
Approach this class with an open mind and you'll have a great time!
Put time in, because thinking deeply about these issues will make the class far more rewarding. Also, those four page papers will probably take longer than you think - but it's worth it. Lastly, they grade harder than most gen-eds. Still, the best class I took this year and one of my favorites of the four years I've spent here!
Least painful way to do the ethical reasoning.  Don't really learn much that you didn't know before.
It's a pretty tough course with harsh grading, but it's totally worth it.  Best course (maybe besides justice) I've taken at Harvard.  It's completely changed the way I write, think, and believe!
Great way to fulfill political theory gov requirement while exploring issues that are on the cutting edge. Take the course if you have the chance.
This class provides a comprehensive view of many modern issues in bioethics, and requires you to think critically about different moral arguments.
This course is mostly just filled with discussion. If you like concrete anything, forget it.
This course deals with very interesting topics and debates but it may not be exactly the way you expect it to be.
Although I had high expectations for this class, sadly I feel like we were never actually taught how to write ethical reasoning papers. We were expected, however, to produce good ethical reasoning papers which was very frustrating as I really wanted to learn how to write such a paper.
If you loved Sandel in Justice, this will be a major let down.  The interview style of the course (read: Sandel asking Melton questions to which he will give his normal, ultraliberal response) made it painfully boring at times.  I honestly only stayed in the class because it counted for both a Gov subfield and the ER gen ed, an awesome "two birds with one stone" that I couldn't turn down.
I would tell students that this is an engaging class with engaging readings.  However, assignments are extremely broad, and the lectures became somewhat redundant (many of them involved discussion of similar, if not identical topics, such as designer children).  The active student participation in lectures, which works in other classes, is less effective in this class, since students already have such strongly entrenched positions on many of the issues - there is less engagement among students than there should be.  Although it's intriguing to see two brilliant people debate with one another on a weekly basis, the conversations between Professors Sandel and Mandel were a little underwhelming - they sometimes spoke past each other and didn't really engage with each other in a way that would really have highlighted the interdisciplinary nature of the course.  Recommended, but with reservations.
Check the syllabus first to see if the issues covered interest you, especially if you are hoping to enter a career with a focus on clinical ethics.  Most of the dilemmas are very theoretical (more about which research should be done than about whether certain treatments are acceptable/how care should be delivered).
TAKE THIS COURSE!!! Michael Sandel is amazing and the discussions are excellent!!!
it's a good class. having prior background in a morality/ethics based class (like Justice) would be very useful. grading can be a bit arbitrary, but that's only because it takes a while to learn how your TF grades.Sandel/Melton always hold very interesting discussions in lecturealso this class focuses more on the moral/theoretical side rather than the practical/biology side. I actually liked it better that way, but hey, just wanted to let you guys know.
This class introduces some interesting bioethical material, and does not require many hours of work a week. However, lecture structure can leave much to be desired, as can the readings. Be warned that this course is graded much more strictly than a typical GenEd.
The topics you debate are fascinating, and the class will make you reconsider how you think about bioethics, but the essays are graded very harshly if they are not what the TFs are looking for.
You come to think very critically about ethical issues.
This class is taught by legendary professors.  The topics are very interesting, but the philosophical principles start to become repetitive.  Also keep in mind that it is much more heavily focused on ethics of biotechnology than medical ethics.
Very interesting and very easy as long as you know how to write. I think people who weren't used to writing argumentative essays struggled a lot, but if you can do that you will breeze right through the course.
If you are super excited about the topic, be prepared to be wildly disappointed with the lecture. Melton seems to know his stuff, but Sandel never seems well prepared and doesn't lecture in a structured way, like, trying to cover and highlight some key issues of debate. He seems to be free-flowing with whatever points that come up in student discussions and trying to push Melton into a corner with circumstantial questions.
This was the best class I have ever taken at Harvard hands down. It was easy, interesting, and thought-provoking- I can't imagine my educational experience without it. GO TO LECTURE, the banter between Sandel and Melton is funny, interesting, thought-provoking and totally worth two hours of your week.
This is a very hard course. Do not take it to fulfill a gen ed, because it does not teach you about moral reasoning, but rather expects you to know immediately how to frame an argument. I took this course as a requirement because I thought it was the most interesting, and struggled a great deal.
While this is a great class and teaches you a lot about ethical reasoning and developing a strong argument, I found the section portion of class to be worth a lot more than the lecture portion.  Make sure that you find a good TF!
It's a pretty strange course. But it's still better than Intro to Human Rights.
This course appeals to a very niche section of Harvard: I expected more accessibility for the average student.
This class made you think and the lectures were very interesting. The section TFs are dedicated though could be a little critical. The essays were difficult, especially for someone who had not taken Justice or other philosophical courses.
Fantastic course that makes you think about your own opinions to relevant scientific ethic issues, and also teaches you about how to express this opinion successfully - necessary for both mental, moral, and practical reasons!
This class is interesting and relevant, but you may leave just as confused about the writing process as when you entered.
Incredibly interesting and increasingly relevant in today's world.  Make sure you spread the four papers out over the course of the semester-- don't leave them all til the last week.
Melton and Sandel are great and the course material is very interesting but you will be disadvantaged in terms of doing well on the papers if you do not have a background in philosophy writing.
The content was very interesting - good readings, discussion, topics. Lectures are long and can get quite boring, as they often seem to focus on less important moral issues. (although the science part at the beginning is always interesting!)
Course may be too anecdotal or lax for someone with  a strong philosophy background.  Section is fantastic if you have a good TF.
This course was very interesting and is a great way to fulfill a requirement.
