This has been one of the most rewarding classes I've taken at Harvard. You read all of the important philosophers who contributed to the Islamic Revolution and gain a new perspective on the philosophical, cultural and political conditions that have ultimately led to today. It strikes a great balance between past and present, moving from the 1953 coup up through the current nuclear negotiations, and teaches you how to look out for common themes, ideas and ideological currents along the way. Don't take this class unless you're serious about government, Middle Eastern history or the region in general, but if you are -- this may be one of the best classes you ever take.
It's hard to measure how many hours this course takes--the reading itself isn't so bad at all, and the response papers aren't grueling in the slightest (though we didn't get much feedback). That being said, the final paper took an exorbitant amount of time. I think that I spent the last two weeks of school (reading period/finals) almost solely on my paper, probably for around 10 hours a day (8-midnight with a few breaks or other assignments), and a good amount of time the week before that as well. You could definitely space it out if you start earlier--I had my general idea from the beginning of November but only really began working on it over Thanksgiving--but I wouldn't underestimate how long it'll take, especially if you pick a topic that's very research-heavy.Despite that, I really did absolutely love this class. I think the reading was interesting (it's very much an area of my interest), and Professor Mohseni is very engaging. Most of class is spent discussing the reading, both in terms of the philosophies behind it and in terms of the practical implications, which I very much enjoyed. And while writing the paper was grueling, it was on a topic that I was fascinated by, so it was--at least at some points--the best kind of pain.
This is by far one of my top classes at Harvard. if you are at all interested in learning about Iran, or Middle East politics in general, this is the class you want! My understanding of how the entire Middle East works is so much better after having taken this class, and that's after taking 4 semesters of Gov MidEast classes! Professor Mohseni is an amazing lecturer and does a great job at teaching Iranian ideology, history, and politics in a memorable and fun way.
This is an amazing class! Professor Mohseni is incredible! His presentations really open up your eyes to Iranian politics and a non-Western centric perspective on the Middle East. Furthermore, he really cares about his students and it was always a pleasure to talk to him. Class was always very engaging since the discussions in class were always extremely interesting. Professor Mohseni does a great job choosing the course material, I loved it all. Word of advice: the 25-page research paper is harder than it seems, so plan wisely when you are going to do it.
This course is a fantastic introduction to a part of international relations in the Persian Gulf that is all too often overlooked. The focus tends to be on the Iraq, Afghanistan, Egypt, and Israel. This course provided an interesting look from the Persian perspective.
Really a great course! A rad opportunity to examine in great depth a historical moment that is often overlooked or misrepresented. Professor Mohseni is a great teacher, very accessible and super knowledgeable. If you're interested at all in radical politics, liberation theology, anti-colonial movements, etc. you'd dig a lot of this course! Also just a cool opportunity to learn about Iran outside of the Revolution!
Dr. Mohseni is super knowledgeable about Iran, especially regarding the current US-Iran negotiations. That said, I felt like the class didn't cover much preliminary ground regarding Iran and Islam, so I felt like we started way above my knowledge base. I learned a lot of vague general trends of politics in Iran, not much concrete detail. Would have been nice to go more in depth about some of the topics instead of just trying to cover everything as fast as possible. But all in all, I learned a ton about Iran, a country I literally knew nothing about but is in the news all the time. Very diverse class - seems to draw people with different ties and interests in the region!
The course is fantastic. Professor Mohseni is so knowledgeabe about Iran and is a great discussion leader. The class was extremely interesting and I loved taking it.
Great introduction to Iran, very diverse range of topics
If you want to learn anything substantive about Iran, this is the course to take.
This is a demanding class, but it is an incredibly rewarding one. You learn an impressive amount about the inner workings of the Iranian regime from one of the few professors who has personal experience and stories about the government and its senior leadership. The work is not trivial, but the payoff is more than worth it.
This class is not for the faint of heart, but what you get out of it is so worth it that I would tell most people who are interested in Government and specifically the Middle East to take it
Take it! This is the type of course for which you come to Harvard. Grades are secondary and learning is the priority. Some of the discussions will leave you in awe.
A problem that usually plagues Gov seminars or courses is the broadness of the scope of the class -- this course is the absolute antithesis of that trend, for which I am extremely thankful. The granularity with which you learn about Iranian society and politics is one that other courses in the Gov department should seek to replicate. If you're at all interested in American-Iranian affairs or the domestic politics within Iran -- hint: it's fascinating -- take this course.
This course is great, it provides you with many different perspectives which are necessary to understand the politics of Iran and the dynamics of the revolution. The materials might be a little overwhelming at times, but they are extremely interesting and vary a lot (from philosophical pieces regarding the ideology of the Islamic Revolution, to the Islamic constitution to the speech delivered by Ahmadinejad at Columbia University and many others). This course also provides a background on the history and culture of Iran. I found it extremely helpful to meet with the professor to discuss some topics that were not clear to me, so do that if you have time!
Definitely worth taking if you're at all interested in the topic. A lot of work, but it pays off. Great professor, really engaging and knowledgeable. Research paper is a lot of work, don't procrastinate.
This is a hard course but is also one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Professor Mohseni is incredibly  knowledgable on Iran and you will learn a lot.
There's an exorbitant amount of reading each week, but as a whole, it was probably the best Gov course I've ever taken. Professor Mohseni clearly cared about planning each class to make the best use of everyone's time, and he pushed back on students' opinions to force us to think more critically.
This class was fantastic. It gave me a whole new framework for thinking about Iran, and really explored the complexities and contradictions not only within Iranian politics, but in the way that it is viewed. I've never come out of a class feeling like I've learnt so much.
This was a great course to not only understand what is going on politically in Iran but also to understand the culture and society there.
If you are interested in Iran take this course. The coursework is manageable and you will learn a lot.
Seriously - take this class. The reading load and 25 page final paper are worth it. Offers a unique and authentic perspective on Iranian politics, and discussions are truly challenging in a productive way.
This was a fascinating class! I really enjoyed the variety of texts that we read, which included not only political science literature, but also plenty of philosophy. It was very interesting to see how the ideas of Heidegger and Habermas have been interpreted in Iran. I appreciated that Professor Mohseni was rigorous in how he conducted the seminar, pushing everyone to support their opinions with clear evidence and to challenge our existing preconceptions. This is a class that really allows you to understand the perspective of various groups in Iranian society, and, most importantly, that Iran is not a monolithic entity, but rather an incredibly complex country and a living battlefield of philosophical ideas.
Lots of readings.
