Great course; discussions are very useful and topics are very relevant. You can reason based on an individual sense of ethics without much academic background necessary.
This course is absolutely phenomenal. I learned a tremendous amount from it in large part due to Professor Sandel's unique approach, which focuses on asking students questions and stimulating debate. He subtly steers the class through those questions and knows all the routes arguments can take as if he were walking through an old and familiar neighborhood. The bottom line: the format of the course produces a more organically intellectual experience than the usual ethics or philosophy class which reviews the notable contributions of other scholars. Here, focus less on what others have written and are forced to grapple with many of the cases on our own, which means perhaps that the quality of our arguments may be poorer but that our process of reasoning is strengthened.
this is an interesting and fun class that did not require too much effort. overall it's a nice way to fulfill the political theory requirement.
Fantastic discussions.  Unique opportunity to examine the base assumptions of economics.
It is an excellent class.
For non-theorists, it is a fairly theory-light, enjoyable, and stimulating way to satisfy your theory requirement (though if you want a deeper familiarity with the subfield you should supplement this course with another).
Very interesting readings, and Professor Sandel is a master discussion leader.  The quality of the class will, for better or worse, depend heavily on who else is enrolled in it.
Be prepared to discuss the topic in class, especially whichever part of the topic you wrote on in your discussion paper.
Good class for connecting normative moral issues to real world concerns.
really fun way to fulfill your theory requirement
Take this course. It's one of the best at Harvard
Interesting course and great for fulfilling theory requirement. Highly recommend.
It's fun! You'll really enjoy it.
This is a very fun class. Professor Sandel was the best discussion leader I've ever had. The readings are interesting and fun. The class is not difficult and very enjoyable.
The class is a great brain teaser/relief from formal studies.  However, be warned: Your mental muscles will be worked, sometimes to frustration.  While stress from professor is low, personal stress to make sense of material will be high.  Thus, be ready to think!
This is a great pedagogical experience and the conversations were provocative and very interesting. I took this class not knowing how it would relate to my research interests, but over the course of the semester found many relevant issues.
Ethics, economics and the law is a fantastic course in which to develop one's ideas and put them to the test.  Professor Sandel leads a lively and engaged seminar, one in which it is more accurate to say participation is desired rather than required.  He is a careful reader of student responses, and is able to rapidly distill what is central (and controversial) in their ideas.  In this way, students are both challenged and inspired.  The readings are generally very good, and provide accessible ways to get at the heart of the debates in the course.
This course presents an engaging perspective on the ethical limitations of the market. Unlike most philosophy courses, this course focuses on concrete cases and allows students to hone their view on the market through the weekly discussions.
This was an excellent learning experience--what I hoped classroom experiences in graduate school would be like, but far too rarely have been. The course felt like a coherent experience building towards an end.  As a student, that end was very rewarding.
This class was a great chance to develop more coherent thoughts around important moral and market-related issues - we were able to learn from each other as well as from Prof. Sandel.
This is a great class which integrates ethical theory with real world policy debates. I would recommend it to anyone interested in practical ethics.
This course is an excellent bridge between the often abstract theories learned in many department courses and current debates that involve similar issues. In addition, it gives a very good framework for viewing discussions around current controversies.
TAKE THIS CLASS!
It's an experience of a lifetime.
This class was unquestionably the best that I have taken at Harvard.  To a degree unusual at the Graduate School, Professor Sandel forced students to articulate an opinion and then defend it in detail, an intellectual process as bracing as it was enjoyable.
This is one of the best pedagogical experiences I've had.
