Amazing class. Professor Johnston is committed to making sure you learn the most you can from the class. The class material is supplemented by his own knowledge and insights, and the class discussions are never dull.
Take this course if you can get in. The highlight of my senior spring. Professor Johnston is so insightful. Although an academic, he also is very connected to the practical world of policy. Great course. Great professor.
The paper is difficult, but everything is extremely worthwhile. If you want an introduction to this subject, this is the best class to take.
This is a classic Gov 94 in which you get out of it however much you put in. The more readings you do, the more you'll get out of class time/lectures, and the more you're able to get out of lectures, the better grasp of such a massive topic like Sino-US relations you will have at the end of the semester. You're advantaged if you come in with some knowledge already, but only in terms of how you're able to take advantage of having a God of the topic like Iain Johnston in the room, and not in terms of your grade (which is determined solely by the paper you write at the end of the semester). Speaking of which, I need to go write that thing. But it's a fabulous class. Oh, and, don't wait on the paper. He won't let you wait much anyway because you'll have assignments due throughout the semester that will help you on your way, but still, finding a topic may not be easy, so start thinking about it (just considering) on day 1.
This might be the only course I've taken at Harvard that I rated a 5 on every field. It is the epitome of what makes Harvard awesome. The lectures are interesting, and discussion based. The readings are reasonable, and yes it's quite a bit of reading a week, but since it's varied in style (speeches, videos, book chapters, papers, etc ) every week, they were enjoyable. Johnston is awesome, and I hope to take more of his classes.
Work on the research paper earlier rather than later because it will bite you and it will bite you very very hard during reading period/finals.
The material and discussions in this class were incredibly compelling for anyone interested in China and U.S.-China relations. Professor Johnston is intelligent, engaging, and kind (he brought cookies to every class). He also invited two speakers into the class (a former CIA analyst for East Asia and a member of the National Security Council) who provided really interesting insight on the future of China relations. The final project has to be started early and taken seriously, though--I wouldn't take this class with other heavy-writing classes because it is a long and demanding paper. I do think it really helped my writing, and I had never taken a gov class before  (some background in gov would have helped me). That being said, Professor Johnston was really helpful and almost always available to speak with.
