Great if you're interested in the subject but have never taken an intro in it. Even if you know about ec and poly sci independently, studying both together in this context is useful. But if you're a dev person, this is likely to be a little boring.
It is not too hard and quite interesting, so I would definitely recommend it, maybe even as an elective.
It is a class that helps to expand one's thinking. It looks more at the realistic and actual application of economics in societies and countries. It puts economics in a different perspective, it is not just equations and theories anymore.
Understand that there are times when the professor will not lecture.  He is an important figure in the world of political development, so he may be away for extended periods of time.
Not really for generalists. I think it would be very difficult to take for a core as your first social science class.
I would recommend it to people who are truly interested in political economy and the developing world. If you don't have a genuine interest in the material though, I don't think its easy to motivate to do the work. I have really enjoyed it, but because I like to focus on economic development.
For anyone interested in development work and/or international politics, this course should be required.
I wish I had taken this class freshman year. I'm now an old decrepit senior economics concentrator and really wish I had discovered political economy (specifically this class earlier on) and been able to probe the concepts further/ use the frameworks presented in thinking about things.
The reading is interesting if you take the time to do it.  It is a class that you can do well in by simply working the deadlines, however, staying up on the reading makes the class 100 times better and worthwile.
You will learn a lot from this course.  It's a whole new frame of thinking for those who have never studied development before, and Bates' has a very distinct approach that is really worth seeing.
This class is very interesting and makes you think, but there is a lack of rigor in both the political and economic aspects of the class.
Keep on top of things; make sure you understand basic concepts too, so you're not just memorizing things
The lecture's really don't go anywhere and are hard to follow. The reading's are pretty dull for the most part. Not a very engaging class.
You must be interested in the subject matter, because without it the course can be boring and a little bit difficult to follow.
If you like a professor that has a very distinctive set of opinions on his subject and wants to sell it to you, this course is great.  I do think, however, that other points of view and critiques of the professor's view are somewhat lacking.
Do not take this class. It has a sweet title but Bates is a bad lecturer who may be brilliant but that will not help you on exam day. the grading is also suspect.
interesting point of view - would especially encourage anyone who hasn't done community-led development to take
Taking this class was one of the worst decisions I have made.
You might be a bit confused at the beginning but at the end, everything comes together, make sure to ask for extra help to your TFs if you don't understand what is going on in class.
While you don't necessarily have to do all the readings, make sure you can understand the main points and connect them to the larger themes in the class.
This was the worst class I have taken at Harvard.
typical liberal arts class - lots of abstract talk, little tangible information.
The reading is quite heavy, interest is absolutely required
Unless the organization problem gets resolved, take something else. The professor is highly disorganized, will cut lectures randomly without notice, and doesn't address the readings in his lectures at all. Also, if you're not very knowledgeable in the development of Africa, I'd advise against this class. The professor, while obviously knowledgeable in his field, figures that most students have a good background on the topic. This course doesn't advertise that it is mostly about Africa (unlike the other gov class that does), so keep this in mind. Finally, if you sit up front, expect to be called out on using anything but a pencil and paper. The professor expects that students are constantly emailing/texting. Maybe if students weren't so confused as to where the hell the lecture was going, they wouldn't be as prone to look to forms of communication with which they could complain about the disorganization of this course.
This course is a fantastic (and not extremely rigorous) way to approach development from a critical, academic perspective.  Anyone with an interest in global health, global poverty, or Africa will benefit greatly from this class!
It is unclear, and you do not come away with broad understanding of a development.
Great combo of econ and govt...but definitely helps if you have an econ background.
Please understand that you don't use any kind of case study in this course although you will find this hint in the course description. You don't get good lecture slides so you have to do all the work on your own. In addition, you have to know that the first part of this class is only sociology and anthropology. The economic models are very simple and in my point of view aren't useful to support the statements given in this course because if you change some parameters you will get different results. The main point why I don't recommend this class is that you will only get some information why countries in Africa don't get developed but you don't discuss what they need to do in order to get developed.
The material is great, but the administration and teaching of this class are far too poor to allow me to recommend it.
exposes person to a variety of insights on one subject-development
This was the worst class I've ever taken at Harvard.  Professor Bates is the worst professor I've ever had.  The only redeeming quality of the course was how it was graded.  It's an easy course.
There aren't many development-related classes at Harvard College. This class is different, and really feels like a nice reprise from the run-of-the-mill Harvard Gov course.
You have to be interested in development.
This class might be very useful for students going into development or very interested in the subject. Otherwise, I would not be likely to recommend.
viewpoint too specific
This is a fun, interesting course with a giant in the field. However, don't expect this course to teach you how to solve the developing world's problems. You will gain a great deal of skepticism from this course (not that this is a bad thing), but don't come in all rosy eyed about the course.  There are no completely easy answers to development.
You won't get anything out of this course that you can't get with more depth, nuance, sophistication, and intellectual integrity in a handful of more specialized courses in the anthropology, Social Studies, history, and even government departments. If you're looking for an easy class to round out that Social Studies focus field, this is a good one. Just keep in mind you might actually be better off not going to lecture.
You can learn twice as much in just a week of Ec 10 or Gov 20.
Not very useful.  Thesis of course is interesting, if somewhat intuitive and incapable of sustaining interest for entirety of semester.
While the course sounds interesting, it is not organized well.
Bates is terrible. If you want to take a Political Economy class, take one not taught by him.
If you're interested in development, hopefully you can find a better class than this one. If there are no other options, I would recommend it because the material is pretty interesting but poorly organized.
Complete waste of your time. The Professor needs to learn how to teach and organize his materials before going back to teaching.
This class was great, realistic introduction to the field of development.  The readings are excellent and section with Yuri was fantastic, but lectures are hit or miss.  Don't take it if you want an intense discussion-based course that will push you, but if you make an effort to get a lot out of the course, you will.
the lectures are boring, but i think that could be improved if prof. bates had a more dynamic slideshow prepared. i did enjoy his fancy collection of safari hats. i never went to section once i realized that attendance was not being taken, and sections were so large that it was easy to get away with it.
Sections were great and the material is truly interesting and relevant- on the other hand, beware of muddled lectures and sometimes strangely-worded essay questions
The topic materials are great. However, the course is not well-structured. There are too many readings for it to be feasible to do much besides skim each one. Additionally, lectures can be unorganized and too abstract. Sections discussions are very insightful, and the exams and papers are fair.
This class gives you good tools for approaching political development but after you've acquired those tools, it can get a bit repetitive, a bit boring and a bit confusing. If I had to do it all over again, I would still take it though. Prof. Bates isn't the most electric lecturer, but he is very knowledgeable and you should definitely hear what he has to say about various issues in international development.
a LOT of reading, definitely make a study group. course is really easy though as long as you don't fall too far behind on the readings. essay topics and key terms are given before both the midterm and the final.
Student can learn  a lot from this class, provided that they put in the work and effort. Although the course material could be framed so as to better tie everything together, section does help a lot in that sense, and so does studying for the midterm and exam. If interested in the subject, students should definitely take this course. There is a lot to learn, and it's great to gain a theoretical background on the topic.
There were times when I felt this was my favorite class in 2 1/2 years at Harvard. The topics and readings are great, Bates is a great academic and great person, and Yuri was one of my favorite TF's at Harvard. At the same time, Bates is not always the best lecturer and some themes of the course can be hard to grasp.  If you are interested in development economics or political economy of developing countries, you really have to take this. But be prepared to be confused at times.
This is an absolutely wonderful class. I know other comments will likely emphasize Professor Bates's dry speaking style, but don't be fooled--he is a phenomenal teacher. The depth and breadth of his academic scholarship is unparalleled, and this shines through in every lecture. He can talk to you about virtually every aspect of development. I enjoyed every lecture thoroughly. Also, be sure to go to his office hours if you want to bounce ideas off of Prof. Bates. He's always really excited to meet with students. Also, Yuri was a phenomenal TF--the perfect mix of engaging, funny and knowledgeable. Overall, this class was a very manageable experience, even for those (like me) who don't have an Ec background.
The materials are interesting, although the lectures can be dry at times.
This course is awful.  Professor Bates, though famous, is a terrible lecturer.  He is not at all engaging, his lecture slides are terrible, and he has a monotone.  Section was not at all stimulating.  The readings were not discussed thoroughly at all.  Exams only encouraged rote memorization, and major concepts were lost because of the need to memorize insignificant details from the readings.  Grading was entirely unfair: on a 5-7 page assignment, I wrote 7 pages, but they took points off of my grade because I went over the page limit because they counted the reference page as an 8th page.  This is unheard of.  I definitely do not recommend this course.
Only take the course if Yuri is still TFing it
A great way to synthesize popular developmental ideas currently prevailing.
Professor Bates is a leader in his field for a reason; his lectures aren't particularly riveting, but if you're interested in the developing world and how to go about addressing it, you should take this class. He's also very approachable in office hours and the Yuri the TF is great. Definitely worth taking if you have any intentions of interacting with the political economy of the developing world.
This class had a lot of promise, but material doesn't seem to cover as much as it really could. Also, although Professor Bates is a highly respectable and brilliant man, he is not exactly a great lecturer. His lectures are disjointed, as he sometimes rambles on tangents or switches topics mid-sentence. With all of the readings, and the excellent section time, lecture often seemed negligible. There is a lot more reading than I had expected, and an economics background would be really helpful, but not completely necessary. Papers and exams are certainly doable, and the course load isn't too bad. Bottom line, if you need a good gov course, take Gov 20.
An interesting introduction to the political economy of development, but it may be months into the course before you're told what that phrase means.
Take it
While the material is superb, and the topic is really interesting, Prof. Bates does a relatively poor job of delivering, especially in lecture. Probably best not to take this course, unless you're really interested and/or are particularly focused on Africa (Bates's specialty).
Good introduction into development theory; its not a class about technical solutions to poverty. The class is interesting, although Bates has a soft elocution that makes it hard to pay attention.
If you have any interest in development issues, take this class.  It gives great background on these topics.
THis course made me understand economic as applied to real life. No ec course will give you this.
The subject matter is interesting, but the professor is really sub-par. I went to every lecture but regretted it every time; I often left more confused than when I entered, and you don't really need anything from the lectures to do well on the papers and exams. As long as you do the readings and go to section, you'll be fine. The TF, Yuri, is absolutely phenomenal and is literally the only saving grace of this class.
If this class doesn't get a "5" from everybody it will be because of the lectures, which are really messy. Other than that, the material is very interesting, something everyone should know about, and Yuri is the best TF one could wish for!
If you ever plan on spending time in a developing country, TAKE THIS CLASS.
Material is interesting, but the lectures are unorganized and very difficult to follow. It's fairly good overall if you're interested in the subject, but the lectures will kill you as a gen ed.
The material for this course is a great introduction to the important concept of development, and explaining why some countries remain underdeveloped.  However, the structure of the course (particularly in Bates' lectures) is weak and makes the course more difficult to understand. Section is beneficial in making up for some of these weaknesses.
If you enjoy economics or government and international policy, this is for you.
If you are looking for a class that deals with political economy of developing countries in general, you should take this class. If you are interested in a particular region of the developing world, this class may not be a good fit for you.
It's not easy, but not hard. Definitely a good class for gov concentrators.
Great course, some really interesting readings.
I have no idea why Professor Bates has received negative reviews in the past- he is engaging, interesting and accessible. I loved this course.
The course really introduced me to the various development theories and some of the big debates development theorists and economics have discussed over the years.  It wasn't the best in opening my eyes on what specifically/exactly is happening in certain countries (like Africa). Examples were used throughout the course, but I don't necessarily have a great picture of specific development policies in specific areas.
A truly excellent class. Robert Bates is not just one of the most interesting and thoughtful Government professors, he's one of the best professors at Harvard overall. His rather bland elocution can sometimes cloud the fact that his lectures are fascinating.
Gov 1100 is an interesting class that will provide a good survey of major themes in development. You will probably like it best if you are already interested in development, and you will benefit from having a basic knowledge of economics (Ec10a).
