Prof Rosen is a great lecturer, and two-thirds of the class is really awesome and well structured, talking about the history of Europe and the World Wars. It feels like a history class, and mostly is, but this is good because you get to understand the context that led from the Concert of Europe and Bismarck to the Cold War. The first two weeks are horribly dry, being solely theory, but it is required for the rest of the class and you will survive. There is a lot of reading to do, but as usual, some of the readings are useless, and you don't have to do all of them to get a good grade. There are 3 short response papers to write, a long paper, 2 midterms and a final, which is a lot of work. It is definitively possible to get a good grade, but you will most likely need to have had a course on IR theory before coming to Harvard to do so. As with Ec 10, this class is pretty high-level for an intro class, and if you're not a history buff, you will be lost at times. I enjoyed taking it, and I loved Prof Rosen's lectures and having Zach as a TF, but the class is not for everyone. Shop it and see for yourself.
It has a reputation for difficult grading and too much reading.  I didn't feel either of those too acutely.  If you're interested in the subject material, don't let that rep prevent you from signing on, especially since the reading list has been greatly reduced recently.
This is the worst class I've taken at harvard.
I'm a neurobiology major and I found this class very interesting form a psychological perspective. It really is what you make out of it. There are specific cases and it's a different approach to history.
Finishing your readings before classes would make lectures much more enjoyable. Also try to work on your response papers early. The one before the first midterm is going to be important since it would give you some guidance for the coming midterm.
This class is an interesting experience.  I am very happy that I learned everything that I did.  I indirectly learned a lot of history I found fascinating and the theories are rather interesting.  However, in some weeks you will have an absurd amount of reading, which you probably can't dedicate much time to if you plan on doing all of them plus the work you have for your other classes.  Also, don't expect to get very good grades.  As we were told, one needs to make "an original contribution to the literature" in order to receive an A.  Part of me understands the attempt to get some good spread on the grades, but I also found that to be a pretty unfair standard taking this intro class as a freshman.  For studying for exams, the internet helps.  Use it.  It will be your friend.  Professor Rosen's lectures are interesting and he does a good job of showing how difficult some of the issues are - especially on the debate-like lectures, which were the most enjoyable.  However, sometimes it is hard to follow his logic since there is no powerpoint or anything and things get mashed up.  I would say, take it if you're interested in international relations and would like to be opinionated about these things, but don't expect to enjoy the actual class.  Also, if you haven't done Gov before, remember to forget everything you learned in Expos and go back to the basics in your writing, and expect to receive a grade you probably will not like very much and will not be a reflection of how much work you put in, it's really just a matter of how well you can structure your arguments in the way that is expected.  Take it, but beware and don't fall behind.
This course is good if you want to learn a few theories about International Relations and a lot about history. Grading is hard and readings are plentiful.
If you're interested in foreign policy and international relations, this is a good course. I haven't taken any other IR courses before, but I enjoyed all the material we covered, I enjoyed Professor Rosen's lectures, and the exams and response papers were not overwhelming by any means.
Take this course, but be ready for a lot of readings. Interesting topics so it will be worth it.
There's plenty of reading, but it is manageable, and it's so worth it to get to hear Professor Rosen.  Take the class.
Take this class if you have interest in international relations, and a broad-sweeping, systemic one at that. Additionally, even if you have this interest, be wary of the fact that this course is immature in organization and scope, and in order that you get a great deal out of this course, you will need to devote at least 5 hours for reading and writing each week.
While the first couple weeks of reading seem bland, the boring stuff is frontloaded and then the class really takes off with interesting materials and lectures.
This class is what you make of it.  You do have to do a ton of reading, and I personally felt I wasn't able to get much out of the class the weeks I was behind on the reading assignments; the reading is definitely a prerequisite for lecture, especially if you're truly taking the class as an intro and don't have much background.  But if you put the effort in and genuinely want to learn, this has the potential to be a great class.
Very interesting class if interested in the subject
This is a great course and doing the reading helps the understanding and discussions in section.
The class is a great learning experience, however the grading can be very tough.  Be ready to receive grades you are unhappy with or get frustrated at.
you have to have be interested in the subject matter to enjoy the class
The lectures were fascinating and Professor Rosen is a motivating and inspirational teacher.  The section is a lot of comprehensive reading though and though the class is organized, expectations for essays are not always completely clear.
The reading is intensive and timely
Be prepared for the steep grading curve. Otherwise, this is the most enjoyable out of all of the intro level gov classes. Professor rosen is amazing and interesting, and this semester emma sky came in to give a talk about terrorism. Overall, great material and very interesting, but don't take it if you're just looking to fulfill a requirement for gov.
Interesting subject material, but grading and readings can be rather imposing (Rosen is anti-grade inflation). Choose between interesting material (this class) or an A unless you're a Gov superstar.
This is a good class, especially if you are interested in international relations or history.  However, keep in mind that this is not a GPA booster and there will be a lot of reading.
This course has a lot of reading -- more than in most government classes -- but it's extremely interesting and relevant, and Professor Rosen is both likable and brilliant.  Definitely recommend it!
The teachers are reluctant to give out As
Be ready to work hard for an A-.  Not many A's are handed out.  This class has a lot of readings, but anticipate which ones are important and focus on them.  There are a lot of random readings thrown in there that are not relevant in lecture, section, or on exams.  Subject material is engaging, but Rosen doesn't generate much enthusiasm, and his lectures can be very sporadic.
The lectures are often engaging and the material is interesting, but my section was usually boring; maybe I picked the worst straw but be ready. I sometimes found lecture unnecessary but if you want to learn the basics of IR before delving into more advanced classes I'd recommend this class. Rosen is really great; Miller's lectures are a waste of time, don't even bother going. Be warned though: this class is NOT just the spring Gov 20, Gov 20 was far more interesting, involved slightly less reading, and is a better class. This is also great but is not really comparable.
Be prepared for a lot of work and harsh grading. the material is very interesting though and is something that everyone should learn
It's a good course. The subject matter is interesting, and Professor Rosen is great.
There is a crazy amount of reading and the expectations from the people who run the course are basically that you spend all your time on this one. If you're willing to do that it's a fantastic course. If not, it's just stressful.
This course does have a lot of reading, but don't be discouraged by this. Professor Rosen has already cut down the reading from previous years. Forming a study group will relieve you of most of the burden, and it's helpful when you study for the exams.
If you really like the material take this class, otherwise find something more interesting. Rosen and Miller are pretty bland lecturers and section is hit and miss. Form a study group to split up the readings. More of a history course than anything.
There is a LOT of reading that is often really not very important except for minor details. Lectures are disengaging and hardly relate to the real point of the material, which you won't figure out until your section leader presents it based on the readings.
Professor Rosen is great, course does get bogged down in theories some.
This course has more work and is more difficult than I would expect an intro Gov course to be.
Too much reading, impossible to digest it all.
There is a lot of reading but if you are interested in the course material the course is worth taking.
This class is extremely interesting, but you have to consider that the grading in this course is  particularly hard.
A lot of reading, harsh grading.
There are some interesting topics discussed in this class, but it is very unstructured and I sometimes felt I was floating in a lot of reading I didn't understand all that well.  The longer the course went on and when I studied for midterms and finals I began to appreciate the themes of the class and actually enjoy the material, but most of the time I was lost in the immense amounts of readings and didn't feel confident that I was learning the material well enough.  I like Professor Rosen
This class really likes grade deflation.
This class is one of the worst classes I've taken at Harvard. Despite what Professor Rosen says, you need a strong background in European history. Professor Rosen mumbles very frequently, and his lectures are not very helpful. Be careful in choosing section leaders. Choose any other IR course and you will have a better experience.
A class that seems, at times, to not know what its doing or where its going. The readings are history, the interpretations based on one government theory, and the evaluations are horrible. Half the time, lecture covers nothing or skims the surface of important topics.
The amount of reading is ridiculous. The exams are pretty easy. Pretty much comes down to whether or not you have a good TF.
If you put in the time, you will learn a lot. Gov. 40 is like 2 courses in one. You need to learn the history, and then a whole bunch of theories about the historical events. Knowing European history 1800-present will provide a considerable advantage.
This course may be appealing to students who are certain that they will be concentrating in Government, but otherwise, it does not engage other interests very well.
It's an interesting course that has great lectures, but the structure of the grading this course is terrible.
Only take this if you absolutely have to. Will be filled with Freshman who haven't learned it's pointless to do this much reading-- and what you will take away won't be worth the work you put in. If a Gov concentrator, definitely take another class.
This course is very demanding, especially reading wise. I did find the course very rewarding and it is an excellent introduction to international relations and politics. Rosen is fantastic and I highly recommend the course.
This class is well taught and very interesting, but you must be willing to work hard.
you'll have to read a lot but it is great as an introductory international relations course. You'll learn a lot.
Be prepared for a lot of reading.
It is a great course for those interested in IR.
If you want to take an intro gov course, take Gov 20. It is much better organized and the lectures are more engaging.
There is a substantial amount of reading, generally about 150 pages each week. They are interesting, but its easy to fall behind. Be sure to keep up! Professor Rosen is very nice and accessible.
It is very interesting, but it requires a lot of work.
Interesting material but a LOT  of reading.
The readings are hard. Real hard. And don't expect any sympathy from the faculty, who by and large epitomize the pernicious stereotype of government people. But it's certainly rewarding, particularly if you're prepared to do the work (and get a study group).
Be prepared to do a LOT of reading.  Find a study group early on.
It's a fascinating topic. Most of the time, you'll be (at least) intrigued.
I think I liked the history part best; I might tell similarly minded students to shop pure history courses, for instance. Rosen's lectures were good, some readings were interesting, but others weren't. Not too much work other than reading.
This course does give you a good introduction to the important topics in IR, so take it if you are really interested in government or IR. Otherwise don't. It's hard, too much reading, and covers too much material at a very surface level.
I had really high expectations because I heard Professor Rosen was great, but I was surprisingly underwhelmed.
It's a lot of reading, but lectures and sections are interesting.
It's a great government course but has a lot of reading.
This course really follows the law of diminishing returns. You learn very little after a lot of hard work and unfortunately I think most people will not remember what they learn in this course simply because it was relatively uninspiring. Professor Rosen and Dr. Miller give rather dull lectures and often do not hit the main points until too much unnecessary elaboration.
This course is good for an introduction into IR but covers a lot of material quickly so that each part is not particularly learned very well and you leave the course without a clear sense of a theme.
The course is very challenging.  The professors and TFs are not understanding nor are they particularly supportive.  If you've taken Gov classes before, it might not be so challenging but for first-time Gov students, be prepared to figure things out on your own.
It was a very good class, but there was a lot of reading, an excessive amount.
This is a great class for those interested in international affairs and relations, or even just how the world works on different levels.
There is way too much reading, and the grading is too strict.
Very thought provoking.  A great core if you're willing to do the work!
I think it is a good class if you have not dealt with any of the topics in depth before, as the class provides a survey of modern European history that is very broad in its scope.
I was so excited to take this course, and it didn't disappoint me one bit.
its ok, not a great class- lecture can be boring, but you don't really have to do the reading or go to lecture to do well. join a study group and focus on the things they tell you to for the midterms and on general course themes
This is a great class if you are interested in International Relations and do not care too much about your grade.  Heavy reading, light writing, hard grading.  Form a study group to split up writing notes on the readings ASAP, you'll need it.  Be original but don't take on too much in your essays.  Rosen is awesome, Miller is average.
Decent course, but not necessarily worth the grade deflation.
Don't take this class unless you need to for a requirement. I learned the most from section and readings. The lectures are boring, and a lot of the readings are long and unnecessary.
Lectures are interesting, albeit sometimes hard to follow. The readings are overwhelming but Wikipedia can be helpful. If you're interested in a few explanations on how nations interact before, during, and after war, this course is a good start. If you're looking for a more well-rounded IR course, look elsewhere.
If you want to take a difficult, rigorous class, there are probably government electives on international relations courses that are more interesting.  Unlike Gov 20 with comparative politics, I do not think this course did a good job in providing a survey of the field of international relations.
Really interesting class, but frustrating. Rosen is great and so is the course material, but you are potentially sacrificing your GPA and a LOT of time. The costs are high, but you do get a lot out of it. You really do come out with a better understanding of international conflict, and it usually isn't a chore- the concepts are interesting.  Is it worth it? Depends on how comfortable you are with government (DONT MAKE THIS YOUR FIRST GOV COURSE. ITS NOT AN INTRO COURSE. DONT DO IT), and how much you are willing to sacrifice.
Take this course if you are looking for a Gov class that focuses more on history than on theory. This class does not provide a solid background in IR theory, but the discussion on historical events is quite good/insightful.
Gov 40 is a great experience. If you are a science person like me, don't be intimidated by the prospect of lots of reading and writing. The workload is totally manageable and you will learn a variety of new ways of looking at the world throughout the course. TAKE IT!
It's a great course with interesting material. It definitely isn't easy, but it's certainly rewarding. Do NOT fall behind in the readings and you should be fine.
Great class that applies theory to case studies, so its broad and specific.
DO NOT take 5 courses concurrently with gov 40 unless you are great at assessing historical events in terms of theories, or if you have prior knowledge in the history covered in this course. There are some very engaging readings, but a lot of readings require you to skim them instead of wasting time digesting each one and can be summarized in 2 instead of 50 pages. Study groups are very, very helpful.
Be prepared to read a lot.
It is amazing. If you want to learn about international conflict and cooperation, and are ready to put in the work, definitely take it!
This would be the best course ever, if it were the only one you were taking. The amount of reading is impossible and the expectations are very high. Interesting topics/progression was good. Would not take as a core/gen ed requirement.
There is a lot of reading, and if you don't do it (I didn't) you won't get much out of the course.
The professors and section leaders expect a lot but frequently the lectures and readings do not prepare you enough to do well on the assignments. You gain a broad knowledge of World history, which is very useful, but the course is not very enjoyable and the reading load is huge.
Interesting course material, not a ton of work. A great class to take as an elective.
interesting material even if not a government concentrator. great course that incorporates both historic cases (Sparta and Athens) and current events (chemical weapons, Iraq)
If you do not like reading or have difficulty with a high volume of reading this may not be the class for you. With that said it is very manageable particularly because it is interesting.
This class has some issues. The readings are interesting, the professor knows what he's talking about...it's just that the two aren't connected particularly well. The course is sometimes vague, and sometimes things don't make sense. However, if you like international relations, check it out..
It is an interesting class, but it is very demanding and work intensive.
There is a great deal of reading, a lot of which is theory as opposed to case studies.  Often, there is too much reading to complete each week.  That said, the course does offer a good introduction to the field.
Very great class to introduce you to international relations. Professor Rosen is extremely intelligent and you will leave thinking differently (which is the mark of a great class).
This class may be disorganized now but it has much potential for the future. Though it helps to come in with some knowledge of international relations theory, it is not necessary; you can pick it up as the class progresses.
Not a great class. The material seemed to just be a history of some major wars, and the lectures and readings were not always well connected.
Really hard class, no matter what you do.if you're not a gov concentrator, have ANY other classes, or are just trying to fulfill a GENED, don't take this class, because you for sure won't get an A nor A-
do not take this course. really. don't.
This was a good course, but don't expect to be able to do all the reading, its quite simply an absurd amount of reading.
Great class, a lot of work
This class was probably a good introduction to International conflict, but I wasn't entirely impressed by the way it was taught.
Gov 40 is very upfront about the fact that it is a difficult intro class. The material is extremely interesting, and you should take this course if you want to have a deeper understanding of many of the decisions that have shaped the world as we know it.
This class did not meet my expectations at all.
it is a crap load of reading
Lectures suck; how good the class is depends on the tf.
This class is very rewarding but you have to expect to not do so well as the expectations for exams and papers are too high.
Requires a lot of work!  But it's a very interesting class.
Take it if you're ok with getting a B, or if you have the time necessary to devote more attention to it than your other classes.
This class failed to meet all of my expectations - lectures were disorganized, one-sided, poorly structured and boring. Course materials were too long, technical and frustrating. While this course is listed in the government department, it should be put back in the history department. The professors did not include enough political theory.
Government 40 offers a great chance to expose yourself to ideas providing a basis for study in international relations.
Turned me away from taking future gov classes
Professor Rosen is a good lecturer who knows a lot about what he is teaching. The readings are lengthy, especially for someone who is not used to gov/humanities.
Often times it seemed like the TFs didn't really know what was going on. Very often I felt that the class did not fully explore aspects international relations that Professor Tingley didn't care for.
No one should take this course if it is there first experience with government--it doesn't leave a good impression of the Government Department. If you do take it, the book readings are practically useless. Though, the material is interesting and it may just be the way that it is taught at creates such a  bad impression.
I did not get much out of this class, and expectations were far too demanding for it to be enjoyable or useful.
Lectures were often boring, sections never went over readings, and the class culminated in a 30+pg paper and 15+ min powerpoint video presentation worth ONLY 15% of our grade. The paper required extensive research and writing, meeting with the group, and writing draft after draft, and the group format was OUTLANDISH for a college level class.The lectures should not directly copy the textbook, be verbal recitations of the powerpoint, or move as quickly through interesting material. The conceptual framework is VERY interesting. Prof. Tingley doesnt need to try and trick us with candy; he can rely on the really engaging primary source material and go further in depth into concepts. Also, the midterm should not ask for direct evidence from readings. Professor Tingley is a really nice guy, and I feel bad for this review, so I'd like to mention that he is amicable and has the potencial to become a great lecturer. I did poorly on the midterm, but I consider myself to be a strong Gov student. I usually receive "A"s on papers, midterms, and exams. I got a D, despite studying harder than usual for the test. I had organized my thoughts CRITICALLY--like, I thought, hmm what are applications of political theories? How can two-level game theory be applied to historical events? Gov 20 is a great example of a class that does just that; it asked us questions like, "Could the ethnic conflict between the Hutu and the Tutsi have been prevented by democratization?" Instead, Gov 40 asked questions like, "What is the exact sentence from this random reading about China?" and then took off actual numerical points for incorrect responses. Learning to apply the theories behind political thought is the only way I will use any of the things I have learned in this class. Finally, the group format for a 30 page paper and 15 min presentation is an OUTLANDISH one for a college level class. I have other things to do with my time. I am SO frustrated with having to spend HOURS doing this report, ESPECIALLY because other people in the group defect from their responsibilities. I had to spend about 30 HOURS writing something worth only 15% of my grade. I do not mean to insult the entire class. I understand it is the first semester, and we were the test subjects. But I could have really loved the material, and I could have really loved the class. But a lot of things were done incorrectly. We had to memorize a lot of trivial information, and really didn't learn how to actually use much of what was taught in the class. Its a shame because this could be really interesting. I felt a boiling rage throughout the semester. DO NOT TAKE THIS until they work through the frustrating parts of the course. It might be good in 2 or 3 years.
This course is really disorganized, and the professor is not great.  Not a good choice of government course (especially if it's the first one you take). Consider a higher level Gov class or Gov10.
This class was fine and really taught a lot of IR theory. The readings were completely unnecessary to do well in the course. I didn't even know we had a textbook until I started studying for the final, and even then I didn't use it. Read summaries of all the theorists, know who said/believed what, utilize the review sessions, and take decent notes and you can do quite well in this class. Also, the big group project is kind of a pain. Put in a little bit of extra time on your small policy memos. Together they are worth 20% of your grade and they are really quick and easy to do. That's the same amount as the big policy project. So spend a little extra time on them to boost your grade.
Standard stuff that you need to keep up with the readings, but know that for most all you will need is a general summary of the author's main point.  You will learn a lot from this class, and it will teach you to keep up with current events.
Definitely shop the class if you are interested, and take a look at the syllabus.
This is a satisfactory introduction to international relations, but nothing too fantastic.
Beware the syllabus: if the long memo is still on there in its current form, don't even think about taking the class.
It is not an easy class, but the professor is worth it, and you'll learn quite a bit.
Gov 40 had a lot more work than I expected. There's a ton of reading, two papers, three debates, a midterm, a final, and a semester-long group research paper. That being said, if you have the time, it's a pretty cool class.
Do all of the readings and know the math
This class is a fantastic introduction to international relations. If you have a chance to take it in your freshman year, do! I am a premed and not even a gov major and I found the material incredibly interesting and the reading load very doable. Plus, the policy memos are fascinating and the TFs are incredible! Take this class; you'll love it!
The theories you learn about are interesting, but Professor Tingley could do a better job of relating them to historical examples to see how they are applicable.
There was alot of work--I think many people found this frustrating. I found that I really learned a great deal in the class and I came to like Dr. Tingley alot. The work is worth it.
The class was really basic intro to IR which was good. A lot of work though on the policy project. The class had its ups and downs when you start dealing with issue areas as opposed to theory it gets more interesting. It wasn't very clear what was expected on exams until you took them, but they turned out to be rather straightforward.
Excellent as an introductory course. Lots of readings. wikisum has good summaries of a few of them. Make sure to associate ideas with the author and vice-versa. It comes in really handy during the exams. If I say "Waltz," the first thing that comes to mind should be the three levels of analysis. If I say "Rationalist War Model," the first thing that pops into your head should be Fearon. Highly recommend taking notes on the readings as you go through them. Printing them out into little booklets makes it easier to stay focused if you find yourself checking Facebook and not caring about what Mearsheimer has to say about the efficacy of international institutions. This year was Tingley's first time teaching. He'll undoubtedly be better next year.
The group assignment is fairly stressful, but the enjoyment of the class makes up for it.  Readings and lectures are interesting enough and section is done very well.
This course presents a balanced approach to international relations that introduces students to basic concepts and theories. Large quantities of reading, but not too much individual work required. The long policy memo does require numerous hours working outside of class with your small group of classmates, however.
This course covers interesting material in its lectures and readings; however the course structure is confusing and lecture can seem reductionist at times.
The content of this course is fascinating, but the level of teaching and the group policy memos are frustrating. You may be better off taking a higher level course and filling in any gaps in your basic knowledge on your own.
Gov 40 is a great way to learn about international relations and sample a broad range of theory topics.  Professor Tingley is a great professor, but he is not too fond of curving tests heavily. However, the midterm and final are not extraordinarily difficult.
Probably take another class.  This one is not that good and I think its a horrible introduction to the great things that the government department has to offer.
This class was not at all what I expected. It focused very little on real life situations and instead spent a lot of time in the theoretical realm. Also, there was a lot of math involved, which for me was a major turn off. There was a group project which was a train wreck from day one, but other than that the class wasn't horrible. The exams are nitpicky, so be prepared to pull some random facts out of no where.
Interesting material. A lot of it is fairly intuitive/common sense/apparent if you know stuff about history + current events, but it's nice to have it formalized. The group memo took effort disproportionate to the points it was worth, but everything else was pretty easy. Lectures aren't that great.
Decently interesting course, the course switches between sometimes dreadfully-simple lecture material and decently complex political readings. Pretty good for an intro gov course, but not stellar.
Be wary that the game theory component of the class takes a lot of practice to get down. The structure of the class, albeit this is Tingley's first year, is not the best. There are some weeks that require you to do a lot of things. The class is not a cakewalk.
The group project was half a semester's worth of headache. Other than that, it's an alright class.
If you really want a background in IR, take it. But honestly, you can just read the textbook and be done with it. I just dont think the work and stress of this class is worth it.
Take this course if you are interested in IR.
This class is a great IR class!
This is a great class, but it is a lot of work.
Don't take the class if it still entails a group, long policy memo project.
It's essentially a course on a specific application of game theory to IR ... but assumes students will not be able to understand game theory without a great deal of hand-holding.  There were lots of complaints that the long policy memo was a lot of work.  To put this in perspective, groups of 5 people had to collectively write 25 pages over the course of two months.  This averages out to maybe a (short) sentence per day.  Sure, group projects suck, but it wasn't a lot of work.
I was a little bit disappointed by this class: the first lecture was pretty engaging, and I was really hoping that this course was going to convince me that Government should be my concentration. Professor Tingley was definitely invested in the class, but at times his lectures were a bit dry, maybe even a little elementary. The work load wasn't too burdensome, but some of the readings would require a little bit of extra time and thought to grasp a good understanding of them. For the most part, this was a decent class: not one of the best, but definitely not one of the worst. Be prepared though: the second half of the semester gets a little bit more boring as things like international trade, foreign aid, and climate change are the main focus.
Definitely take this course.  Tingley is awesome and sections are good. It's a great first course in international relations and not too difficult.  Strongly recommend,
I would tell them that though it is interesting, it is a poorly designed course and that their work will likely not result in a good grade.
If you're interested in studying Gov, take this course freshman or sophomore year. I wish I'd taken it earlier because so many of the concepts they cover, especially regarding thinking about political science through quantitative frameworks, would have really aided me in analyzing issues in politics more systematically. The group projects are hard though so don't expect an easy Gen Ed intro course.
- This course was taught by Dustin Tingley, a newcomer to the Gov 40 game (it is usually taught by Prof. Rosen). This makes the usefulness of these evaluations somewhat questionable for future students--check to see who is scheduled to teach this course. - Gov 40 was the class that convinced me to come to Harvard at Visitas. When I actually took it, I loved a good amount of the material. Since I had already studied a good amount of IR, I already knew (and was therefore bored by) some material as well.- Many of the TFs were exceptionally good.- Many students in this class are unimpressive. Since a substantial amount of this course is a group project, this is a serious downside to the course. - Tingley is a fun person to talk to in person.- I suspect my fellow students are going to complain about the midterm. While it was rigorous, it was not exceptionally difficult. Don't worry.
Great class and reasonable workload.
This is an interesting course if you're already interested in IR. Otherwise, it's a bit skimpy. Heavy on the theory, not heavy on the application of the theory. There's a terrible group project involved, so beware. The workload is pretty heavy. Lots of readings. Be sure to participate in section.
This class may get better, as this was the first time the revamped course was taught. The workload isn't difficult, mainly readings. The group project may be a hassle... 30 pages between 4-7 people is more difficult than at first glance.
Look over the syllabus carefully; especially the density of the readings and the requirements for the group policy project. Also, there is MATH in this gov course: pay attention when he explains it in lecture.
I am confident to say that out of 24 courses I have taken this was by far one of the worst class experiences I have ever had at Harvard. I came to this class thinking that it would be such an engaging experience, but, unfortunately, made me cry every week, and regret my decision of having taken this class. It goes without saying that Professor Tingley has some really good, impressive and innovative ideas for the course, and showed strong dedication and commitment to revamp it. His intentions were excellent, but the performance and implementation of many of these ideas/thoughts were mismanaged in many aspects, to say the least.Amount of workI knew that the class required some significant amount of work/time commitment, but what I experienced went beyond my expectations. Like other classmates, I wanted to drop this course midway through the semester, but could not do it because of the missed add/drop deadline. Ultimately, this class was a significant source of stress (more on this in the next paragraphs), and made me very sick for a week, during which I could not go to any of my classes/and could not perform any other activities.Syllabus/StructureSyllabus is very condense/intense but the topics seemed interesting and eye-opening. Professor Tingley demands much more than any other intro-IR class in the world would. However, in terms of the structure/design of the class, I oftentimes found myself lost in the material/structure, not knowing how to connect a particular topic to the themes of the course (which I still dont know what they were/are). Although Professor Tingley invested a lot of his time to prepare slides, those slides did not always do a particularly good job  they were not structured/organized (and material was all over the place).AssignmentsThis class requires the following: 1) two short policy memos, 2) group policy memo, 3) midterm, 4) final, 5) section attendance (inclusive of three in-class debates).The two short policy memos were kind of interesting. Honestly, if I had not done policy memos in my other classes, I would have had no idea how to proceed with them.The group project: many try to freeride, contributing no work to the project at all, while others are ignorant and abrasive.Midterm and final  no clear expectations; no themes provided. Mean on the midterm: 70%.SectionA section component of this class was THE WORST NIGHTMARE ever (i.e. maybe my perception of this class would have been a little bit better if not this section). My strong recommendation is to AVOID Ms. Kara Ross Camerana. Each section/interaction, she was passive-aggressive, polarizing, and condescending, which very negatively affected the educational aspect of the class. I oftentimes felt that her approach to students/people was very inappropriate/politically incorrect. She seemed like she was forced to work with students, and she looks down to them. Moreover, it seems to me  that her evaluations/test-grading were biased and unfair. Based on my experiences, I can tell that she did look at the name first, and depending on whether she liked the person or not, she gave or did not give (partial) credit.
This class offers a good general overview of international relations, and a strong grounding in theory that will be helpful moving into upper level government courses. However, the structure was weird at times: too many readings that weren't referenced again, a huge final memo project with spontaneous due dates, and a midterm that reflected only a small section of what we had learned. Do the readings (reference the recommended ones in assignments) and go to lecture.
I would tell them it was a first year course when I took it. If you are interested in the subject then definitely take it. It may be a little rough around the edges but working with the teaching staff you can tell they all mean well.
It' fairly straightforward if a bit dry.
Be prepared to put in a lot of work for a gen-ed/intro gov course; definitely do the readings, as they are both very interesting and also on exams.
Overall its a decent class and not that hard. The individual policy memos are a great way to apply the theory to current events. The group policy project was awful. Lots of logistical/structural problems etc If they get rid of it (there was some talk of replacing it with a third individual memo etc) then the course is fine. If they keep it, do not go NEAR this class. Other IR classes are better.
Gov 40 is a great introduction to international relations concepts. You learn a lot about different IR theories and how to concretely apply them. The course flows logically, and Professor Rosen is an excellent lecturer. Be prepared for a lot of reading, which would be best managed in a study group of fellow students. If you're more interested in current events, this course is probably not for you unless you are looking to acquire a stronger background in IR theories - which is very useful.
This class is a great introduction to international relations and gives a good basis of theories that are important in politics and government. Professor Rosen is an amazing lecturer who is really smart and engaging, though he doesn't provide many notes/doesn't use powerpoints so lecture is important to go to. The readings can get a little long but it's interesting and in the end helpful. The actual course-load is very good because there are 3 response papers throughout the semester (which once you actually start them are pretty easy) and 2 midterms and a final, along with the reading. Overall a great intro gov course that teaches things in history and international relations, like the causes of the World Wars and the Cold War, that are good to know for life in general.
A very helpful and comprehensive introduction to international relations theories and perspectives. I learned a lot from this course and really enjoyed it!
Rosen may be a little boring in lecture, but the material presented is fascinating, the class is well worth it.
Honestly one of the best lecture classes I've taken from Harvard. The one hour lectures are fascinating and fly by and the sections provoke interesting discussion.
So much information, you really are a better speaker in any debate with this information in your arsenal. Understand the world better.
This is great course if you are interested in international politics and/or history. The first few weeks deal with theory, which is very important for understanding the literature on international relations. After that, it is very historically based, drawing from 19th- and 20th- century world politics. The professor is a great lecturer and is very knowledgeable in the field.
If you're looking for a course where you learn 'facts' of political theory and how to apply these theories to historical political examples, this course will be for you. If you want a philosophically rigorous dialogue as to why/whether these theories of understanding international relations are useful or sound, or if you want to engage in questions of why we think in terms of states/nations in the first place, this course most definitely is not for you. Sections also seem to be pretty hit or miss, and it was not clear what was expected of you in exams or assignments.
It is pretty easy and straightforward and a decent introduction to international relations theory. Lectures and readings can get pretty dull at times, and there aren't enough consistent assignments to keep you up to date with all class material. If you don't like gov/IR, probably not a class for you.
While the international relations theories may seem tautological at times, this course is useful to give you a general overview of the language used to build them up and helps you see the assumptions people may have. Grading may seem arbitrary, but the lectures are very good.
This course does involve a lot of reading, but it is well worth it. If you are interested in history, politics, or even are just curious about why states interact with other countries the way they do, I would highly recommend this course.
Expect it to be mildly biased, hope for a better section than I had
It covers a lot of material but does so well.
Origins of Modern War with Steve Walt is harder, but the additional rigor makes it a lot more worthwhile than Gov 40.
if you do all the readings - or, share reading summaries with friends - this is a great and straightforward introduction to International Relations. Nota Bene: if you fall asleep during the first lecture, you will likely fall asleeep all year long.
There is a ton of reading.  Form a study group, or get good at skimming. Wikipedia is helpful. Section is also very helpful.
Great overview of international relations! Difficult readings, but very rewarding and informative
Very interesting class on international conflict.  take it.
Rosen is great!
Take this course if you're interested in 19th and 20th century (mostly european) history. The content is interesting, but not presented in the most engaging way.
The reading is dense at the start of the course, but after the first couple weeks most of it is tolerable, if not enjoyable.  Professor Rosen is a very good lecturer, especially on the subject of war and conflict.  If you want to learn more about IR, this is a class you'll want to take.
This is a really interesting course if you're at all interested in international relations. If you split up the readings with a few people, the material is very easy to manage.
Issues covered are interesting, readings are not too long (by Gov standards), but section isn't the best place for learning.
On the whole, the course was very interesting and helped expand my way of thinking about international relations.
Not a bad class, but not a great class either.  If you are interested in IR, you'll learn some good information, but the structure of the class isn't the best.
There aren't a lot of readings, and if you've ever followed the news, you will easily see how the theories apply to real life.
This class is really interesting. The textbook is clear, and the lectures are fun. It has two professors, which can make things interesting, but it is also slightly confusing, because in the middle of the semester you suddenly have a completely new professor, with a different lecture and class style.
The lectures are dull because they just read from their slides, they attempt to keep kids engaged in mundane ways, "Talk to the person next to you!" results in everyone awkwardly glancing left and right before deciding schizophrenia would be a better alternative to participating in this course exercise.
Interesting material, low workload, excellent as a gen ed/elective.
Great class on international relations
This class is so useful for your development as a citizen of any and every country.  I highly recommend it, even if you are not at all interested in pursuing government as a concentration.
Material is very relevant to the news today. Christopher Lucas is the best TF, and the course is structured well!
I would say that it is neither incredibly challenging nor easy. I would recommend it to people in economics looking to learn more about government policies. I would caution people who have no interest in trade, economics etc. from taking the course. I would also suggest trying to find a non-intro level course as it often seemed that this course just gave new names to basic concepts.
If you're at all interested in international relations and the different theories that govern the occurrence of different phenomena then this is the course for you!
good course, you learn a lot and its not difficult enough for you to have to lighten your schedule elsewhere. Also what we discuss is very interesting and thought provoking.
This class is interesting and not too difficult. Lecturers are engaging and teaching fellows are great. If you are concentrating or getting a secondary in gov this is a pretty easy course you can take to fulfill a requirement.
This a FANTASTIC course and was definitely one of my favorite courses this semester. I would highly suggest you take this class as a freshman! It has made me want to be a gov concentrator.
As a non-gov concentrator, I found the class to be a very insightful gen ed.
Not a super exciting class. Not inspiring, but if you want a basic understanding for international politics it's good to take.
Interesting course material with a decent amount of reading
Not very interesting overall, but good information to know
The expectations were incredibly unclear and the teaching staff seemed not to completely understand the course or course material. The second half of the semester was quite boring, and the lectures were difficult to follow.
This class provides a very broad introduction to IR, much of which you might be familiar with if you took Ec 10. I wish it went deeper. That being said it has a highly manageable workload and is a low stress class.
Very good course, especially Prof. Hiscox's part on international political economy. He is a very engaging and knowledgable lecturer whose lectures will expand your worldview. The class workload is not overwhelming. On the contrary, the assignments are incredibly interesting (three short response papers on topics of your choice, readings from international relations publications), and the exams are very fair
Excellent professors this year! I've shopped this course several times, and waiting to take it until this year was a great choice. The topics stayed contemporary (mostly 20th century) which kept it interesting. The textbook was painless, you could choose your response paper weeks. Hopefully they make the final exam time longer in the future because the time constraint was very challenging.
Its an introductory class, so it's never particularly specific, but it will give you a broad-based understanding of the basics in this field.
This course is a really interesting introduction to foreign relations/interactions.
Not a lot to gain or learn
If you're looking for an easy, relatively interesting course to add to a heavy workload look no further. If you really want to be engaged and challenged, maybe try another.
Low workload class that will give you a very basic foundation in international relations. Once you figure out how your section leader wants you to very rigidly and specifically structure (for better or for worse) your midterm answers and response papers, it's pretty straightforward.
Covers a lot of awesome ideas. Just don't expect the tests and assignments to evaluate you justly
You can get much more from the Gov department.  The course may improve now that Catalinac is leaving, but give it a few years to develop.  Hiscox is a fantastic lecturer who could teach the course himself.
If you are very engaged in politics, took a previous international relations class, or did something like debate which requires a lot of research on IR, this class will be very easy. If you have no background, then it is a great way to be introduced to IR.
This class is amazing. Both Professor Catalinac and Professor Hiscox as well as all of the TFs did a great job with the class.
This Gov class was relatively easy in terms of course load and has interesting and applicable content.
Don't be misled by the syllabus. Though the topics look amazing, this course is not taught well. You would learn as much ordering and reading the textbook.
This class is fun and a blast. It is one of my favorite courses.
This class was a good introduction to IR and broad survey of topics. The subject was very interesting and I definitely learned a lot. It also was not too stressful, but I will say that the response papers were more challenging than I anticipated since they were so open-ended and each required separate research. The projects/assignments for this course could be better, but overall it was a good intro-level class.
Gov 40 is a great introduction to international relations.
Easy course but extremely interesting. The readings are cool and relevant, and lecture is enjoyable.
This class is not very intensive or in depth but it gives a good survey of a lot of interesting material.
This is definitely one of the most enjoyable classes I've taken at Harvard. It gives you a good basic knowledge of international relations and doesn't require much background if you're don't know much about gov. The professors are great and the course will make you a better informed citizen who is not only able to but also willing to engage in current world politics. The only downside is that the readings can get a bit long and boring at times, but they're necessary for preparing for the exams. Overall, the course covers a lot of topics and aims to provide you with an at least cursory introduction to the many ways nations interact. Some lecture topics include immigration, the bargaining model of war, trade, and environmental issues. Section gives you a chance to take what you learn in class and analyze historical and current events through those lenses.
Excellent introduction for those who are trying to see which subfields in the Government department they prefer. Lectures are enjoyable and easy to follow.
This class really had the potential to be interesting, but it wasn't. The first half (taught by professor Catalanic) was well done, but unfortunately she's moved to NYU. Lectures in the second half of the course were hard to follow, unengaging, and poorly delivered. The paper component of the class is easy enough. Honestly, you should take this if you need to fulfill a gen-ed requirements, as it's not that much work, but be wary that it's going to be pretty boring.
Excellent course, my first introduction to the study of government, and I really liked it. The workload is pretty even throughout the semester, the midterm and final are well explained and fair, section is useful, and most of the readings are quite interesting. I really liked the course content, and feel as though I learned a bunch. My favourite part was one particular reading where I felt as if all of a sudden all of World War One and Two made so much more sense - the whys and hows and whos. I highly recommend this course, one of my favourites this year.
Take this class if you are looking for a basic understanding of IR. The information is useful but the class isn't particularly engaging or stimulating. Very minimal workload is required and the exams are straightforward.
A great introductory course for anyone with even mild interest in international relations!
This is a great intro course in IR. Not really a rockstar-professor type course, but still very interesting and useful if you appreciate the subject. You don't really need a background in IR to be successful - in fact, if you know a lot about IR, it may not be the course for you. Some sort of thing social-science related in high school I would highly recommend, though, jus in relation of being able to keep pace w/ material. There are also notes online, but going to class is and interesting idea.
Good class, more theoretical than practical.
I think that the class is quite constricted to presenting different theories and issues in politics from a U.S perspective by mostly giving examples of U.S. related cooperations and conflicts. Also, the class is quite disorganized and the syllabus was relatively vague and the requirements were changing all the time because the class was "under reconstruction" this year. It was definitely stressful to write response papers without actually knowing what the requirements are. Hopefully they'll improve the class for next academic year!
The subject material interested me although it was so poorly taught that in the end this really didn't matter. I expected a nuanced discussion of international relations and I was really disappointed when went to talk about foreign aid and the professor's summary of the topic was basically "Rich countries should give to poor countries because they are poor. Some say this money isn't very effectively spent or effective. Others say we need to we need to increase aid anyway just because we really don't spend that much of our budget on foreign aid" We didn't approach this topic with any depth and i was deeply disappointed when this trend applied to very other concept we learned in class. I get that this is an into class but the readings actually covered good material and I don't understand why lecture didn't even come close to matching the intellectual quality of the class readings. There are so many other good class in the gov department that you could take instead of Gov 40.
This course is a straightforward way to learn about international relations. It was well organized (both in organization of content and in delivery). However, sometimes the course did not feel innovative or creative, but rather a series of readings, matching lectures and straightforward discussion sections. A better balance between organization/stability and dryness would be ideal to ensure the course is organized but still engaging.
The course is a fantastic Gen Ed and the first Gen Ed I have taken which made me feel like a more worldly citizen
Great class for an overview of international relations. Workload is light and assessments are straightforward.
This class is basically spoon feeding you IR. You should read the material if you want to participate in section, but going to lecture is the most important, because both teachers basically summarize and expand upon what you read. Make sure you do the three papers early so you don't have to worry about doing them while studying for the midterm. There is a lot of material, so start studying early. Overall, the class was interesting, but not the most engaging. It is a good introduction to IR course, but will be boring if you have taken IR before.
It is helpful as an introduction to politics, if you have taken other gov classes before this one might seem a little boring though. It is a good gov class to take if you want to avoid the ridiculous amount of reading some others have. To extend your knowledge it's helpful, but not really if you want to challenge yourself.
This class really does have a lot of potential but it isn't meeting it.
The course was ok I guess. I didn't really get much out of it: material was basic, overly theoretical, and not particularly interesting. Lectures were usually dull and an exact recap of the readings. Response papers were arguably the best part of the course, though the word limit was unreasonably short.If you're taking this course to fulfill a requirement, it's pretty painless, though again, it's a bit dull. If you're taking it to actually gain a better understanding of IR, probably best to look elsewhere.
Gov 40 gives the illusion of being an easy class but it is not. Professor Catilinac was the best part and she is leaving Harvard for NYU for 2015 fall :(
If you love IR, take this class as it's interesting and covers all the basics. It won't blow you away but it's still a great course.
It's recreational knowledge to help guide your political conversations with friends and family, but for a responsible and engaged citizen, this class is a must-take. Really opens your eyes to what you thought you knew, and where the evidence lies. The lectures move at a comfortable pace, so it's tough to fall behind. Just do enough of the readings to contribute in section every week and you'll be solid.
Whether you take it as a Gen Ed, an elective or a concentration requirement, you are going to have fun!
The second half of the course is not as interesting as the first.
Go to lecture- they are super good
This class is probably not worth your time. I am sure there are classes in the Gov department that fulfill the IR requirement and better engage with the scholarly literature and are less all-over-the-place. This class is easy-- you only have to write 1500 words over the course of the semester, and there aren't many readings. There's a textbook, but you barely ever use it. Professors Catalinac and Hiscox mostly teach from the textbook, and Catalinac was the worst perpetrator of this crime. However, she won't be teaching it next year, so maybe it will be different. I would recommend taking this class only as a Gen Ed. And if you have already fulfilled SW, don't take this class.
It is very easy. Take if you are generally interested in IR. The essays and sections are good opportunities to think about IR issues in greater depth.
This class provides an excellent look at IR and various issues around the world. It peaked my interest in a lot of new topics and I thoroughly enjoyed learning about how states interact and deal with some of the most pressing issues of today. Lectures in the first half of the course were a bit dry because it was a lot of theory on why wars begin, but it was helpful in giving a better understanding of how conflict begins.
Great class, definitely take!
Great class
Good class
The first half of gov 40 on the bargaining theory and the theory of the war is fascinating.
This is a good gen-ed course to fulfill the requirement, but it seemed kind of disorganized and at times confusing with regards to the syllabus schedule. Section was helpful, but not very conducive to discussion. The gap between gov concentrators and non-gov concentrators made the setting intimidating to learn in.
This course is a good survey course without much work. However, at the end of the day, I didn't feel like I learned much. Perhaps consider taking a higher level course if you are very interested in the topics.
This class is engaging, interesting and very applicable to current affairs.
Interesting class. Quite easy.
This course covers interesting concepts that have to do with international relations. What you get from this course depends on how much effort you put in and the TF you get as well.
This is a great introductory course. Whether you are a non-social sciences student looking to knock off a Gen-Ed or a Government concentrator looking for an easier course to round out their schedule, this is the class for you. The readings and information are interesting. Great course to take.
If you want to understand how international politics work pick this course. While there are a lot of theories, it never felt tiring or overly academic, but instead very tangible.
This course will allow you to gain a more informative perspective about international politics. After taking this course, you will view the news way differently. The concepts covered in this course will continue to change how you view the actions taken by different politicians and nations.
The readings are important for the exam. You will be asked about them specifically even if it seems like they just repeat the lectures.
How interesting the class is depends on how engaged you are during lecture and section.
This class is probably best for students with little background in international relations. It's a great sampler of IR topics, but but can feel very surface level if you are already even a bit familiar with the concepts. That being said, it's an enjoyable, stress-free class. The professors are lovely, and the section component is actually very well taught.
This class can be extremely boring, and I often felt like I learned more by reading the textbook than attending lecture.
I came to college thinking I loved international relations, and sure that I was concentrating in government. This course completely turned me off to both fields. That's not to say it was a bad course, it's just I realized that government was not for me. That said' I think it was interesting, and not incredibly challenging. It makes for a good elective.
This course is an excellent Gen Ed to take, requiring minimal work of you, but if you want to get anything out of it, do the readings carefully and prepare for sections! It will make you a more interesting person, trust me!
This class is a good class to begin intro to IR, it is not the most exciting class per se but that academics are good, the learning is broken down and the case studies can be very interesting to learn.
This class is full of fascinating topics and is great for an overview of multiple disciplines within international relations. You will learn a lot about the field and what specific areas interest you. The concepts are applicable to different sectors so it's worth the time.
Great Gov class
This class was kind of boring in lecture, but it was overall a good class, and not hard. It's a good introductory class if you're interested in government, or just want to learn about the world.
This is a fantastic class covering various areas of international relations, from economic policy to human rights. It is a truly comprehensive government class.
This class was overall pretty good. And this has a lot to do with the fact that they removed the 30 page group policy memo from last year. I thought that both the readings and section were at least moderately interesting. But be prepared to do debates in section, which as something that I did not realize was a part of the course. As for the exams, they really make sure that you understand the readings and that you have read the required readings. So overall I would recommend this course to someone that was interested in IR, as well as someone who never took an IR course as long as they are willing to do the readings.
Very interesting class. The lectures are interesting and lively. The work load is fair.
This course has been considerably revamped and is just great now. Professor Tingley gives AWESOME lectures and is really engaging. Lectures fly by. Likewise, the course simulations are great - especially towards the latter end of the course. Highly recommended for anyone in the college, especially if you are interested in foreign affairs/national security and want the fundamentals for how we should think about major contemporary issues that face us in both of these arenas. Very manageable workload and quite enjoyable too.
This is an excellent course. Professor Tingley is awesome! He's super funny and enthusiastic. The class is extremely interesting and lectures are very interactive. However, there was a little bit too much math for my taste.
This class is a really great introduction to international relations, and you don't need to be a gov concentrator to appreciate the content because it covers a lot of interesting topics that come up in the news or are relevant to different aspects of life that are both political and non-political.
Class is engaging. Section not too much. But I'm not too sure I'm really learning that much.
I feel that you could get a much better International Relations course elsewhere. Only take this course if you are extroverted and are comfortable debating and presenting in front of large groups of people. Also, it is obvious that the professor and TFs have a certain grading distribution to hit, so grading often seems arbitrary. On the positive side, the lecture material is interesting. However, you just have to be prepared to deal with random grades (this is especially true with participation grades). Carefully search all of your IR options before taking this class.
This class was incredibly engaging and interesting. I even found the readings to be very worthwhile to read.
Wonderful introductory international relations class taught with infectious enthusiasm.
The course does a good job of picking great readings, but, frankly, doesn't teach or give assignments that approach anywhere near their level.  I usually felt like I was in a class designed for eighth graders who don't know even the basics of how countries work, which made assignments graded more on who put more time into them than on who actually had a good understanding of  the material.  It would be much better if actual papers replaced the short "policy memos" and lecture material matched the level of the readings.
Make sure to read FLS readings -- super helpful to prepare for quiz/final!!
If you are at all interested in International Relations and would like to know more about it, I would definitely recommend this course because it provides a great overview of the field in an interactive format. The course is well-structured and goes through various areas of international politics and global issues, and you do several engaging simulations of conferences and negotiations which can be fun. Professor Tingley is an interesting lecturer and Rob is an awesome TF. The readings are not too overwhelming and many are quite interesting, and you only have two written policy memos and one quiz during the semester.
This class was great.  It wasn't a huge time commitment, had fun and relevant assignments, had a great lecture with interactive simulations, and taught a lot of information.  Kinks from previous years have been worked out and I would recommend this class with enthusiasm.
I really enjoyed the class. The lectures were very enjoyable and informative. I think this class would definitely be good or bad based on the professor teaching it. Tingley was very funny and tried to incorporate some really fun simulations to help with the understanding of major concepts.
Tingley is a great lecturer and the policy memos really get you involved in simulating enacting change within the world community.
The lectures are great, but section contents will vary from TF to TF
This class was amazing. In its second year, the professors and TFs improved the class so much that it is incredibly enjoyable-- by far my favorite class this semester. I highly recommend it.
you will never watch the news in the same way. after taking this course, you'll be mentally applying game theory etc as you watch international relations unfold real time.
MY FAVORITE CLASS. i just really like looking at how countries interact and this class was a great introductory course for that. The work was manageable and section was great when the readings were done. They give enough time for everything so I was never stressed about anything. I would recommend it for any gov concentrator or anyone looking to learn more about the world and how countries relate to each other.
Expanded my world view.
If you're interested in IR, take a higher level class. You might think that the fact that it's an intro class means it's an easy A but that's not true. If you're not interested in IR, you have no reason to take the class.
This class really felt like a middle school class, not a class that was being taught at a college. The work seems pointless, the lectures and sections are not engaging, and I do not feel like I learned much at all. Your time is better spent in another class.
This class has potential, but it is NOTHING compared to Gov 20.  Tingley is great, both as a professor and as a person. He needs to do a better job picking TF's, though, especially Head TF's. The section component was apathetic and confusing. Honestly, I came into this class thinking I wanted to be a Gov concentrator, but this class's section components reflected all the terrible things I have heard about the Gov department in such a way that I am now thinking History.
Do the readings and look over lecture notes.  All you need for an A =]
Gov 40 is Gov 40. It's not a special class by its nature, because it teaches realpolitik theories and essentially disconnects those theories from what anyone believes is right and wrong. Political theory (excluding just war theory) isn't really made to deal with those questions anyway. But honestly, even for someone who isn't particularly interested in political theory, Gov 40 offers some valuable frameworks, even just for the later Gov classes that you'll take in which your prof or section leader mentions Jervis' security dilemma and looks down on you if you don't know what it is. It's worth taking to get the knowledge, but it's not going to be one of the classes you think back on later in life and say "Wow, now wasn't that something." To clarify: that is no way the fault of the professor. I think Tingley teaches it as well as it could be taught, really (sections could definitely have been better though...). It's just the nature of the topic.
If it being taught through online modules... don't take it. Professor Tingley is nice but the course was disorganized and could use much more structure. The TF's weren't stellar either.
This is a very interesting class that will teach you a lot about international relations. Prof Tingley is passionate and a great lecturer. Overall great class
I would recommend this course for students who are interested in concentrating in government.
It is a great class, you have to work really hard but it is worth it because the material is interesting and you learn more about the world we are living in.
This is a great course for anyone, even if you're not a gov concentrator. I came out of this course with a greater understanding of international relations and am able to better follow the news. Preparation before class is more than I anticipated- in addition to weekly readings, there are videos and often case studies or section activities that need to be read/watched/researched which can take some time. Overall, definitely worth it, though.
This is a cursory glance of everything that can be studied in IR, and it will be useful for determining what about IR excites you the most.
This course is a fairly easy way to learn about international relations, an incredibly important field.
Gov40 is just too much. So much is expected from students, while professors don't put that much in. Readings are extensive and monotonous. Lecture is often interesting (simulations, etc.)All-in-all this course is good if you're willing to put in A LOT of work to get anything out of it. Otherwise, it is tedious and often frustrating.
I think this was an interesting class and you learn about international relations, but the grading was unnecessarily tough for the project and policy memos. Having to watch lecture videos outside of class can prove time consuming especially when all you do in class is review case studies/simulations. The reading is not bad (a lot of people still just cram for the final). I would take the class again, but be sure to really understand what you want out the class. Not a gem, but only because of the tough grading without serious basis.
Gov 40 is an excellent class, especially if you have any interest in IR or want to pursue a career/concentration in Gov
I would tell future students that this class offers a good introduction to the basic theories of IR, however, for those looking for a more in-depth examination of IR should know that this course may not be for them.
This course is really interesting. The teaching staff works really hard to make class interactive, so you will do a lot of debates and simulations. If you take this class you should feel comfortable presenting and speaking in class, as it is often required. It's not necessary, but is definitely beneficial to know a bit about current events coming in to use as examples that you can apply theories to.
This course is a great introductory course. However, there are videos that you have to see before class starts and questions that you have to answer that often take up a lot of time. The readings are nice but are sometimes too much and take too long. Apart from a quiz early in the semester, there are only policy memos that you get graded on before your final exam. Make sure you word economize on the policy memo because you only have so much room to say all that you want. Also, go to office hours and ask your TF what they are looking for and go to your TF after you receive your grade so you know what to do before hand. It is okay if you are disappointed with your policy memo grade. Also, when you do your group project, be sensible about who are in a group with and what topic you choose- don't be too ambitious as it opens up to too many areas of questioning.
very simple concepts but I liked applying them to current events
If you're looking for an engaging and interactive introduction to the fundamentals of international relations, then this class is for you. If you prefer a more sit-back-and-lecture style, then you should try something else.
This is an interesting course but will not really teach you a whole lot about government or international relations. It is pretty easy and is a good deal different than other gov courses.
The course is not a ton of work, and Tingley is very engaging. He seems to really want his students to do well, which is very refreshing. As long as you do the online video stuff and participate in class, you'll get the main concepts of the course. To be perfectly honest, a lot of the main concepts are almost oversimplified, so if you have taken a class in international relations before I would not recommend this one on top of it.
Although structured fairly well and with a promising description and grading system, this class really disappointed me. We spent all our time on theories that to me just seemed like common sense. I felt like I couldn't offer my own opinion on a topicrather everything I said had to be justified by some theory or long dead professor. Forcing ideas into the constructs of liberal and realist was limiting.
This is a great intro class. Very manageable workload, but very effective in teaching you the relevant information.
This is a fair class if you are interested in international politics. However, lecture is generally pretty boring and they give you quite of bit of reading.
It is an interesting class but requires a good amount of work.
A lot was just common sense, so wasn't hugely interesting. The most interesting parts were he case studies - but we only did three of those.
I came into this course with reservations because I had heard not so great things. However, do not fall into these rumors. Professor Tingley and the TFs have really taken their time to refine the course, teaching you the theories behind how the international world moves. If you are interested in international relations, this is a good first course to take.
Very enjoyable, engaging class.
Great for those who love government/international relations. If you're just taking it bc you think it's easy don't be a jerk- let someone who will actually contribute take the class.
Gov 40 is a great introduction to IR. I fought very hard to get into this class off the waitlist, and I am glad that I did. This class, run for the first time in its current format, follows the flipped classroom model where you watch the lecture videos (you can do 2x speed) at home and then do interactive things in class, such as debates, group work, simulations, etc. The first 15 minutes of class is spent not only discussing current events in IR but eventually applying the theories we learn in class to them. You begin with game theory, which left us originally confused in section but then became pretty simple after having it explained in a different manner later on for the quiz. There are also two policy memos, a group memo, a final which is probably going to be very difficult. I would recommend that you stay on top of the readings, which is difficult to do because we rarely discuss them in section and I would recommend they change that. Overall, take this class, and worst case scenario it is a gen ed anyway.
