I came to this course as a foreign student from the Harvard School of Public Health, and initially felt out of my depth as I had neither a background in American history or in political science. But the other members of the class were very helpful, and both Prof Gay and Prof Hochschild were encouraging, and with sustained effort, I began to engage at a reasonable level with the weekly readings, and ended up thoroughly enjoying the class, and getting a lot out of it: I will definitely be able to apply what I've learned at this class to my work in public health. I would absolutely recommend this class to others, and reassure students with no political science or government background that as long as they are prepared to put in sustained effort, and participate in discussion, there is much to be gained from taking this course.
This course really pushes you and exposes you to a wide variety of debates but in a rigorous and organized manner. I feel very much prepared to ask questions and discuss issues relating to race and ethnicity in the United States (and comparatively with other countries). The teaching was excellent - I jumped at the chance to take such a small seminar with Prof Gay and Prof Hochschild!
Carefully consider taking this class.  If you want to be challenged, this is the class for you.  If you want clear direction, this might not be the class.  But both Profs. Gay and Hochschild are brilliant, open and available to discussing methodology and disciplinary approaches to a variety of interesting questions.
The course is challenging, yet the topics and discussions trigger your enthousiasm if you have a general interest in immigration, race, ethnicities and political issues related to these topics.
If you want to think about race and ethnicity in American politics, as well as gain an overview of how these two forces have shaped and have been shaped by politics, then this course is well worth your while.
I would say that I took the class in its experimental phase, and it was still pretty good.  I am sure it will only get better from here!  I think the role of the "Synthesizers" needs to be re-thought a little, and structured more carefully, perhaps more along the "Defenders of the Text" lines we talked about.
Great, informative class! Just be aware that this class is extremely reading intensive (although the readings for the most part are very good) and somewhat disorganized.
It's an excellent opportunity to gain an in-depth, cross-cutting understanding and analysis of historical and contemporary race politics.
I would definitely recommend this course to anyone who is interested in gaining a better understanding of how race and ethnicity affected the development of the United States and its current institutions and policies.  Although I would insert the caveat that this course is time-consuming and challenging for those coming from outside the Government Department, I would still recommend it.
Any opportunity to learn from Jennifer should not be an opportunity missed.  The intimacy of a small graduate seminar with her was an invaluable experience. But be ready to work! The course reading consumed my semester. Maybe I was overly ambitious trying to do all of it each week!
It covers a wide range of material that is all really interesting and challenging. I would definitely take it even if it were just an elective course.
If you do not know how to skim or do not know how to make your way through a LOT of reading, do not take this class. It is a very discursive class so if you engage, you get a lot out of it. Jennifer and Claudine both really see you as equals and take your thoughts and opinions very seriously so bring your best to the table and you'll get the best in return.
This is a fantastic course! The course takes on big social issues, and provides students with an understanding of how and why the politics of race and ethnicity are so central to American politics.
This is an excellent course if you are interested in the trajectory of race and ethnicity in the U.S.
As you do the readings, think about potential research that you could do in the future.
If you are at all interested in race, take this class.  We began the course with the history of race in America and then explored current political science issues.  Take this course!
Do NOT take this class unless you are prepared to advocate to yourself to a point of pretty spectacular shame (e.g. when grad students ignore you and don't know your name more than halfway through term despite the small seminar size). This doesn't just come from the grad students - who maybe act as they do because they try to distance themselves from undergrads (as they are relatively new grad students). The professors give little to no support to undergrads and are incredibly difficult to approach. The readings are simplistic and it feels difficult to critique them when everyone is referencing grad school work that you have not seen because you are not in grad school.
