Amazing professor and interesting topic! Definitely take this course if you're remotely interested in the subject. Not too much work and you can choose your own focus when you do your own research. The professor really tries to make it a good experience!
Ruxy is an engaging and passionate seminar leader and she makes the topic at hand very interesting by keeping current events in the class discussions and grounding that in the migration research and theories we read about in class.
Take this course! This course was an amazing experience. I learned so much through it. Sections were well run, the assignments were fair, and the readings were informative. Overall, it's one of the most rewarding classes I've taken at Harvard.
This is a great class to expand your knowledge on migration and the changing world. Ruxandra is extremely engaging and insightful and gets you thinking about the final paper very early on. She provides rather in-depth constructive feedback and is very approachable, so do visit her during office hours! The class often touches upon current events and provides the opportunity to engage with pretty awesome guest lecturers.
This is probably one of the best courses I have ever taken at Harvard and one of the best seminars that the Government department has to offer. Professor Paul (Ruxy) is one of the best instructors I've had and has done a wonderful job of carefully constructing the course in terms of curriculum, discussion, feedback, structure, guest speakers, and organization. Her passion for political science and migration studies is definitely contagious. Her feedback was extremely helpful and has helped me to seriously think about writing a senior thesis on migration in the future.
Need to be very interested in the topic
This course is engaging and very interesting.  You are able to apply what you learn to current events. One of the best seminars I have taken at Harvard.
Ruxy is a phenomenal professor. She really cares for each and every one of her students, and makes an effort to make discussions comfortable for everyone. She is also incredibly articulate and well-read, and the insights she shares in class will really challenge the way that you think. Regarding the material of the course, it's very interesting. The reading load gets heavier as the semester progresses, but it's not all required. She provides you with all of these readings in the hopes that something in them will stick with you, and help you as you think about your research paper. This is not really like other courses in that respect. Because it's a junior seminar, it really is more of a class focused on what you produce (research paper) rather than discussing all of the theories that come up in readings. This is good in the sense that it forces students to engage in a different kind of intellectual exercise (i.e. other gov courses may ask for a paper as a complement to the course, but your experience in this course is really tailored to your research interests within migration studies) and leaves a lot of time in discussions for current events (this was HUGE my semester given the migrant crisis). It can be challenging to the structure of discussions however; because everyone is coming in from different backgrounds and different interests in migration studies, it can be difficult to have a cohesive discussion in which everyone stays on topic. This is not necessarily a bad thing, but it's definitely different than other section discussions I've had. Overall, I think if you're interested in migration even in the slightest, lottery for this course. You will learn a lot from Ruxy, you will glean some interesting insights from the readings, and you'll produce your own work at the end (this was really exciting for me, as I'd never done something like this before).
This class will teach you many theories about why people migrate and will allow you to look at the flipside of migration, from receiving to sending countries, from national governments, supranational actors, etc.
Ruxy is amazing! You can tell she loves what she's doing and the subject matter that we're discussing, which makes the class very enjoyable!
This is a wonderful class, I'd recommend it to anyone even remotely interested in migration. Ruxy is wonderful, really cares about her students, and gives very useful feedback on assignments and presentations. Section discussions are very interesting and varied. Plus, we had guest speaker series that brought in outside perspectives on migration. This is one of the best Government classes I have taken and a great way to fulfill a Gov 94 requirement because you get a lot of feedback on your work and are actually able to work on your final paper throughout the semester.
This course does an excellent job of introducing you to issues of migration. Factors shaping policy, forces driving migration, and changing conceptions of the migrant and the nation are all considered. After a thorough treatment of the topic, you get the opportunity to write a research paper under the eminent guidance of Dr. Paul, a bright scholar.
Take this course if you are at all interested in migration and policies of migration.  The speaker series brings in people who work on these issues outside of the classroom and engaged us in learning beyond readings.  Ruxy is also fantastic! Our MFA trip as a group was also definitely a highlight! Figure out your research topic early and make use of the research design and draft deadlines for feedback.  Ruxy gives amazing feedback so it's definitely worth it to try to really figure out what you are going to write about.
Find a different seminar
