This course is somewhat challenging and there is a decent amount of reading. However, I learned a lot from this course. If you are someone who interested in learning about the war on terror and national security, with a particular emphasis on their legal aspects, I would strongly recommend taking this course. This course will make you a better thinker.
This class had really interesting subject matter that was covered thoroughly with the course materials. The reading could get heavy, and since it's a research seminar there's a minimum 20 page paper as the final, so the workload was not light. Adam had us work on our paper throughout the semester by doing paper proposals and rough drafts, which was helpful in forming an idea for the paper but only added to the work or the class. Adam was good in class because he led discussion well, but he was unnecessarily and overly critical in his comments and wasn't very helpful in telling me how to change my topic so that it would be better.
This is a really interesting and enjoyable class where you will learn a lot and come away with a great understanding of America's actions during the War on Terror. There is a lot of reading, but it is all very interesting and varied (court cases, briefs, news articles, books, etc(, which is nice. Adam is incredibly knowledgeable and witty, leading the class and discussion well.
This course is very informational, but it is a very serious course. There is a lot of reading each week and the understanding of deep legal documents is a key to doing well in the course. Additionally, the teacher is serious and sticks strictly to the content of the course.
This was such a great class!  The readings are relevant and I came away more informed about the legal debates that surround the War on Terror.  The subject material is so crucial and important to understand in our society.  There is a lot of work, but in order to really understand some of these complex issues, it is necessary.  The guest speakers were amazing!!!!
Amazing class, one of the few at Harvard that substantively engages with current legal questions. Take it take it take it. Also, Adam is exceptional and is probably one of the most well-spoken and eloquent grad students you are likely to encounter teaching this kind of course.
