Political scientists spend a great deal of time discussing methods, but not as much time on research design, a somewhat higher level of abstraction. This course is a very nice corrective to that neglect.
A course like this should be required for all students in government. What I found most helpful is that it helps the student to reflect critically about various commonly used and alternative methods.
This is THE class to take if you are interested in Social Science research - should be mandatory for all social scientists.
Incredibly helpful course for (a) developing a potential research project and (b) thinking critically about research design in political science. The course provides an analysis of political science/social science methods that the standard quantitative sequence misses.
really helpful if you plan to become a political scientist
This is one of, if not the best, course I've taken in pursuit of my PhD.
I think 2009 should be a required course for every grad student in the department - it complements 2000/2001 in very important ways.
This is an essential course for graduate students in the Department of Government. The material covered in the course is foundational to the discipline and hugely stimulating. Professor Hall's guidance is exceptional.
This is an excellent course for anyone interested in doing research in the social sciences. It covers incredibly helpful specific methodological issues but also more general and fundamental questions about doing research and developing a dissertation idea. Prof Hall is a wonderful person and a great discussion leader. The assignment was also very helpful.
This course is likely to be helpful to someone who wants to develop a specific research design.  If students are not interested in engaging with the philosophical aspects of social science inquiry, I'd recommend a different course, since the first half of this one focuses quite heavily on those issues.
If you have an idea for a research project you really want to develop, and want detailed feedback from a top-rate political scientist, this class would be great for you.
The assignments and feedback you get will be very helpful. In addition, you will find the last few weeks of class very informative. The first few weeks of discussion, however, will be somewhat less useful.
If the syllabus was reoriented around counterfactual analysis, I would recommend it.
This is a very valuable class for any graduate student in the social sciences; in fact, I wish I had taken it earlier.
Excellent course and Professor Hall is a great teacher. You will learn a lot from discussions in class with peers, and you will receive extensive feedback from Prof. Hall on every assignment and draft of your paper. The only class I have taken where you are walked through the proposal writing process from theory development to case selection.
I would tell students that this is a fabulous class and is particularly well suited for students who want to step back and think about the different questions that social scientists can ask and how to approach different types of questions.  This is not a great class for someone who wants concrete answers to methodological questions, though it does give a sense of how to design research.
Take this course if you need a broader understanding of the discipline, and could use some extra skills in preparing a prospectus or research grant proposals.
this helped me figure out what type of research i wanted to do (the type of question i am interested in), but don't expect it to be a "practical" course.
An incredibly useful and insightful look into what exactly we're trying to do as social scientists  a great way to go beyond the rote usage of statistical tools to think critically about designing and doing research.
Prof Hall has a superb grasp of the main fields of inquiry in political science, and teaches you with great energy to think about their main promises and pitfalls.
I would tell students that this course is a fantastic introduction to the *stuff* of political science, and social science more broadly, and incredibly helpful in terms of thinking about how to situate one's work and structure one's arguments with respect to the discipline as a whole.
This class gives you a great opportunity to develop a research idea and test out its viability.  This includes not just identifying and defining a "core concept" but writing a formal grant proposal and presenting discussing your idea with Prof. Hall.  Highly recommended especially for 2nd year Gov. students thinking about a prospectus.
This course is great for getting professionalized into the discipline and for having a structure in which to begin drafting your prospectus.
If you want or need to go beyond a 'recipe' in your research design, or are at all interested in  philosophy of social science but have not had much chance to study it, this is a very valuable course.
