This is a really fantastic seminar. Definitely take it if you're interested in looking at political thought through a lens that you would be unlikely to get in general lecture-style courses. The readings are interesting and fairly manageable, and Cheryl Welch is great!
It's a very good class if you're interested in political theory.
Readings are good
take it if you are interested in theory and/or imperialism!
Really great course - particularly if you would like more exposure to political theory. The readings are all good, not always the easiest to get through but things you will be glad to have read. The professor is really dedicated and works closely with each of the students. Be sure to come prepared to class ready to discuss!
Government 94le is a unique course that gives students a comprehensive overview of liberal political theory as it relates to Western imperialism. As a student who had never studied political theory before taking this course, I can attest that I now have a solid foundation in the writings of philosophers such as Locke, Mill, Tocqueville, Burke, and Hobson. Professor Welch is an expert in this area, and she is an outstanding instructor. In addition to being incredibly knowledgeable about political theory, she is a helpful and dedicated teacher who is generous with her time outside of class. While the term paper is a challenging project, Professor Welch helps guide you through the research process.
This class provided an excellent introduction on liberal theories of empire across a wide swath of time. Professor Welch is extremely kind and helpful, providing excellent feedback and giving strong background in class. I highly recommend taking any class that she offers.
Through this course, professor Welch has cemented her place in my heart as my favorite Harvard professor. She has an excellent way of running the class, weaving everyone through the readings while finding ways to engage everyone in the class, even if they are a bit shy. She went above and beyond the norm, with special occasions for the class to meet that were a real treat that would not leave anyone disappointed. This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard, and while that may seem hard to believe given some of the readings, it can surely be attributed to such a wonderful professor.
