This course is a great government class and one of the few that covers the Middle East extensively.  The course staff are specialists in the Middle East which is a huge asset, and they are also able political scientists.  The course provides a good background in how to analyze poli sci arguments, while also giving a great background in the roots of government in the Middle East.
If you have an interest in Middle East history and comparative politics, this is a good class (assuming you don't mind reading many papers each week).
This class is a great way to learn about Middle East government and history. The readings are manageable, and the lectures provide many different frameworks through which one can intelligently analyze the Middle East. The class can feel a little disorganized or even not quite sure of its own aims, but - dependent of course on the teacher and tf - the interesting elements of the theories and history studied can themselves make up for the disorganization, making the class worthwhile.
This class is being offered with a different prof next year and will probably be dramatically different; best advice I can offer is to check out the syllabus thoroughly and shop it.
I learned a lot, but the sections are not that helpful and you will have to learn a lot on your own to do well.
Take the course if you would like to obtain more than a passing understanding of Middle East politics specifically and state-building more broadly. Also take it if you wish to equip yourself to discuss the present day middle east in historical context and to understand the Middle East in a degree of detail finer that simply "regional" i.e. to differentiate in a useful fashion between countries.
This is a wonderful introduction to the politics of the Middle East, that does not assume any prior knowledge (it was the first gov class I took). The readings give you a comprehensive introduction to the history and comparative political theory of the region, and Professor Mohseni gives fantastic and pregnant lectures that treat the theory effectively while constantly tying in contemporary reality and cases in point.
While the subject matter was very interesting, there were requirements not listed on the syllabus that required quite a few additional hours of work.  Furthermore, the midterm required us to memorize a lot of dates and details as opposed to focusing on broader themes and concepts which quite frankly felt like a waste of time.
This class tries to do too much and doesn't end up doing it well. In hindsight, I would have chosen a different course. I haven't learned anything new about the Middle East and have just been frustrated with the demands of the professor not aligning with the what the course was presented as. The mandatory movies are a total waste of time. They in no way apply to the class and the fact that the professor chooses to do a full lecture on top of 2 hour movies is annoying and unnecessary. The entire first part of the course is theory, which is very frustrating if you wanted to learn about the Middle East and not go over things that should have already been learnt in previous gov classes (specifically, Gov 20 and Gov 97). This class can best be described as a disappointment. The department doesn't have many classes on the Middle East so I was excited that there finally was one but it turned out to be a let-down.
This course was a bit of a hot mess which, to be fair, can be expected in the first year of any course. This course is definitely not as 'comparative' as the course title might indicate but it is one of the few that delves into Middle Eastern Politics (if not, the only one that does so) in the department. Response papers should be considered seriously. Emphasis on the political theory and state-building aspect of this course.
I am very knowledgable about the Middle East now and this class is the reason for that.
This class was an epic circus. A joke. As a Gov concentrator interested in the Middle East, I struggle to find applicable courses at Harvard, so I was thrilled that this course was going to be offered this year. It was a disaster. Miserable lectures, unclear teaching, obvious tension within the teaching team, harsh, arbitrary grading, and worst--I didn't even learn that much. Do NOT take it if Professor Mohseni (sarcastic, unfocused) is still teaching it. I grieve for the lost potential.
this is hands down the absolute worst class I have taken in my academic career, which is unfortunate considering how important and interesting the topic should be.  definitely consider taking the course if there is a different professor.
If you already know alot about the Middle East, this class will teach you a lot of theory to use as a framework for understanding it better.
This class is largely based on theory rather than on application. While you do somewhat learn about what is currently going on in the Middle East, the current issues are in the last part of the course and they don't cover a lot of countries. If you are going to take this class, be prepared for a TON of reading--hundreds of pages of rather dense reading.
This course was disappointing. My TF was excellent. Annie is knowledgable, kind, cooperative, and provided extensive feedback on my written coursework; however, this was the course's only redeeming factor, and because Annie is leaving next year, it is thus not a factor worth taking the class for. Lectures were basically summaries of the reading that managed to be both dull and confusing at the same time. The midterm was extremely challenging not because it applied concepts in a creative way, but because it tested us on trivia material and not comparative political ideas. The syllabus did not provide the date of the midterm exam, nor did it mention the three required movie screenings or the guest lecture that would go an hour over the scheduled class time. This course was disorganized, disjointed, and did not provide a comprehensive overview of Middle Eastern politics, instead focusing on only Iran and Turkey. How did we not have a lecture on Egypt?! While Professor Mohseni is obviously a kind, extremely knowledgable, and passionate scholar, this course needs to be revamped in terms of structure and content in order to provide students with an adequate learning experience.
Take with caution, only because those without a specific interest or background in the Middle East are likely to get confused/disillusioned with Middle Eastern politics if they cannot follow the readings
Expands greatly on knowledge of the MiddleEast
This is a well-taught class that's very relevant to today's issues. Solid lectures, interesting readings, and fair assignments.
Seriously take your time with the readings. There is a lot of material and a lot of information but it is extremely relevant and very helpful. It will take a lot of time.
Definitely take a few other easier gov classes before diving into this one.
The course was incredibly disorganized (we had to section 5 different times before things were set, the TFs didn't know what was going on logistically with the course, etc). The midterm was extremely unfair, testing us on random facts rather than overarching themes. The course focused very much on history and spent little time on the Arab Spring/present day, which is much more interesting. More readings than a reasonable person could complete.
I took this course because it seemed to be one of the few courses on Middle Eastern politics here at Harvard. It was enjoyable, and easy if you do your work, but not particularly fulfilling. You'll have fun during lectures, but the sections aren't all that helpful.
Take it if you're really interested, but it's easier if you already have a background in the region.
This class is extremely relevant, interesting and I'm glad I took it. It also had an unrealistic amount of reading and was very hard and stressful.
This was a really enjoyable class. It is probably more accurate to call it a Comparative Politics of the Arab Spring, since much of what we did centered around that topic. Though we looked at history and institutions in the mid-20th century, much of it was framed as the backdrop for the events in the past few years. Everything before independence we covered very quickly.
If the section sizes are reduced I would be likely to recommend this course, but if not I would tell students to prepare to have to do a lot of analytical work on their own.
This class will give you such a comprehensive understanding of the Middle East and North Africa, a region that will always be relevant. You will be able to truly understand occurrences in the region, ranging from the rise of ISIS to the state breakdown in Libya. Professor Cammett is excellent and engaging. Definitely take it!
I took this course expected to finally understand the politics of the Middle East. Unfortunately, that's not how it works. I definitely walked away knowing more about the Middle East than I did before, but I certainly still don't understand it.
This class tries to cover way too much. I'm happy I took it because I learned a lot, but the class provides little guidance for assignments and I feel like you are at a disadvantage if you know very little about the Middle East. I would say that if you're going to take it and don' t know much about the Middle East then you should REALLY do the readings and attend all lectures.
Very relevant and interesting class. I feel like I really understand the issues facing the region now. However, it was time consuming - there is a lot of reading and the assignments are lengthy and requite quite a bit of studying
Professor Cammett does a great job breaking down her take on what's going on in the contemporary Middle East, using empirical and sociological data and surveys. If you know nothing about the Middle East, it can seem like drinking from a fire hose, but you will learn a lot and class will not be boring.
Take this course if you're interested in the Middle East. The material is extremely interesting and it covers a lot of ground on the region. Beware that the readings are at times long and dry, and that sometimes things are not going to be so clear or understood. Keep in mind that this was the first year, but also that the TF and Professor Cammett need to incorporate a lot more theory and material from the readings into the actual lecture. The midterms are OK, but at times it's not clear how grading is done or on what basis, which makes it seems arbitrary, as is the case with any gov or social science course though.
This class is amazing - if you are really interested in the Middle East, even if you've studied the region or a few countries extensively, you will still get so much out of this class. It's great because you can get as much out of this class as you want. I love that this class covered Ottoman Empire history and country-specific history in addition to dealing extensively with contemporary events. The history of this region is absolutely critical to understanding today's politics and I thought the course balanced both the historical and modern elements really well.
I really liked this class. You will learn a lot, just be prepared to do the readings. The material is incredibly fascinating and relevant for modern days, there's just a lot of it. If you're curious about the Middle East and want to better understand current affairs there, I highly recommend!
This class is extremely difficult. Do not take it! Readings were totally out of control (took forever to do them), and even though I went to every lecture and did all the readings I didn't do well.
take it if you are puzzeled by what is going on in the Middle East
This is a great course! There's a lot of reading but with a reading group, it's manageable. The material is well organized and you'll learn loads! Appropriate both for those with no background and those with extensive background in the region.
The material is very interesting but the class is not structured very well. Workload is completely manageable but make sure you meet with your TF and get feedback in advance to learn about the style of grading.
This class is a really important class to take given the contemporary situation in the MENA region. Professor Cammett does a good job of focusing in on key issues that the region faces, and the assignments, such as the policy memo, make you think about ways that you think the governments could address what is going on in the region.
Professor Cammett is an energetic and incredibly smart person. She was so inspiring. The readings for this class are long and there are many, but it will give you a very thorough understanding of the situation in the countries of the Middle East. Read the textbook - chapters are long but will really help you figure everything out. You don't need to memorize details from the textbook or anything - just need to know the authors of the other readings and their arguments. Lectures were super interesting. Highly recommend!
This is a fantastic course that clarifies a lot of the questions I had about the Middle East. I took it as my first gov course as an elective pass-fail and learned a lot and was not totally overwhelmed. But I would caution against taking the course for a grade if you have not had any gov experience because there was a lot of gov jargon that went over my head. But Prof Cammett is amazing and lecture was always something I looked forward to. Learned a ton.
You need to do the readings.... and its a lot of readings
This class requires quite a bit of reading but it is well taught and organized.
This course is very, very interesting. Professor Cammett is a great lecturer. However, since this was her first time teaching the course here, there are a lot of structural aspects of the course that make it hard to engage as fully with the material, and there are a lot of unrealistic (and overly demanding) expectations for students. Keep this in mind! If you have more familiarity with government classes and the Middle East, you should be more than fine.
If you want to come away with a solid understanding of some of the key issues in contemporary Middle Eastern politics, this is THE course to take.
Professor Cammett is a fantastic lecturer, the reading list is interesting, and the class is very well organized. Take it.
This is a hard class due to the nature of the material.  Can't think of a better lecturer to present the material in a digestible manner, but be prepared for tough readings and lots of advanced thinking for writing assignments.
If you're interested in the middle east and want a class that will teach you a lot in pretty great depth, then take this class and don't think twice! Melani is a great lecturer and really approachable.
This is a great course if you are interested in Middle Eastern politics and international affairs generally, since the Middle East is a focal point of international politics at the moment. Professor Cammett is a great lecturer, and does really interesting research in the field which she discusses in class. She is good at engaging students even though it is a large lecture class, and the readings outside of class are interesting. There is a LOT of reading, though, so be prepared to have a lot of work.
I would urge them not to take it.
