For anyone that genuinely cares about the American state of education, this is a very insightful course.
This class presents in-depth discussions of many interesting and relevant issues today, like Common Core, as well as a more historical portion of the course. It's a flipped classroom, so students watch lecture videos online before class and then discuss the material during the lecture, which gives you extra time to digest all of the information, plus section is great for clarifying topics.
This course is excellent. You'll get a chance to meet insightful speakers, work with passionate students and engage with a talented teaching staff.
This course provides a detailed review of many of the hot button issues in education today. In-class lectures are a little repetitive and can be dense at times because you watch the videos and do the readings which present the same information before class. Sections are awesome, especially if you get Leslie. They allow you to really engage with the information in an exciting way. Professor Peterson is really knowledgeable about the politics of education so pick his brain if you get a chance.
Education and education policy are incredibly interesting, but this course isn't. I honestly could have taken this class online and I think I would have had an equal (if not better) experience.
Nuanced yet balanced take on almost all modern educational policy issues. Focuses heavily on historical context for the first half of the semester. Second half more focuses on evaluating studies of various policy issues. Data-oriented approach, which is great. No statistics or econometrics knowledge required. Flipped classroom approach means that we watched videos and did readings and spent lecture in more of a discussion format. The small class size allowed us to have engaging discussions during lecture which Prof. Peterson moderated. Section with Leslie was more guided and often involved primary source documents.
You will do most of your learning through the online videos and section components of the course. If you cannot get pass this obstacle, this course might not be for you. Beyond that, the course teaches you a great deal about American Education policy. Also, Leslie is an amazing TF. Try to have section with her if she is around. You can tell she really cares about the material and teaching it to you.
It worked very well as a smaller class.  Keep up with the videos and the major studies and you'll do fine.
A really interesting class in which you learn about a lot of the problems and nuances of the American education system in a short period of time.
This was a fine class. Hopefully they smooth out the EdX side of things-it makes the lecture component feel almost tacked on as is. But even if they don't change anything, it was still an okay class. Interesting stuff, and it's definitely important.
It is an easy class on a pretty interesting subject but the videos get pretty annoying and sometimes lecture can be boring.
The topics covered in class are really interesting and Prof. Peterson and the TFs are very nice. However, we don't go very deep into the material, lectures and the material are a little bit repetitive and it is very clear from sections that some students really don't care and still do well.
The course provides a great overview of the American education system. It goes over the basics of each of the major topics which was helpful, so if you already know a lot about the different aspects of the school system it may not be the most exciting class. Lectures are mainly discussion based, as all of the material is learned through videos you have to watch beforehand, and the weekly readings are manageable.
The content is great for anyone with the slightest interest in education: it is a thorough overview of the issues in American education, including historical context and a look into policies for the future. However, prof Peterson is not very personally engaged with his students so lectures can be a little dull, especially when they rehash the lecture videos. Overall, midterm and final weren't hard and there is plenty of time to do the (short) final memo. Take the class!
The video component of this course actually helps you stay on top of the work. The Material is very interesting and the assignments are fair. The daily quizzes are no big deal if you have watched the videos and the memo was a short but close look at a policy that intrigued you. Definitely recommend for someone with interest in education policy.
The subject matter is interesting but lecture becomes a repeat of videos watched outside class. Not a difficult gov elective.
I took this as a senior as a gov elective. If you are interested in education, this is a great course. The material presented is a great overview of the literature and is presented in an accessible way. The quiz every week is easy - just watch the videos. Don't let that scare you off. The assignments are straightforward so if you want an easy grade, go for it too. The course could be improved a lot. Its an academic version of USW 35 - you learn more content but it is just taught in an uninspiring, unengaging way.
Skip it. Lectures are not at all useful if you've watched the videos before class, which themselves have relatively little content; I'm not sure I ever learned something I couldn't have gotten from perusing the syllabus on my own.

Take Professor Fryer's education class if you're interested in the topic. 

TFs were nice!
If you would like to gain an in-depth overview of the history of the American education system and the current challenges a and ideas for reform you should take this class. In a short amount of time you cover a lot of material without feeling overwhelmed by it. Assignments allow you to form your own judgements on how to improve education.
This course was a wonderful survey of the core issues regarding public education in America, from past to present. For anyone interested in education, particularly education policy, I highly recommend this course.
Get Amanda as your TF. Listen to all the lectures. Attend lecture. Work hard and efficiently on your project. The class's informative component is unparalleled in clarity and depth. Peterson is flawless and amazing.
This is a one of those classes where it's all about you. Great opportunity to work on a creative and interesting project that could actually go somewhere in the real world.
The strength of this class is Professor Peterson. He is a great lecturer and is extremely accessible. The way the class is structured can be very frustrating.
The content of this class is interesting but you learn most of it outside of class, through watching video lectures. Overall interesting content but class is two hours and passes slowly. By the second class, you have to start thinking about the final project and presentation even though many students know very little about the subject matter and as a result, feel unprepared to make a group and topic choice.
The emphasis of the class felt like it was mainly on the presented projects and not on the VAST quantity of material covered concerning education. And the project itself didn't even necessarily have to be related to the "Politics of American Education," making the name a misnomer. However, there is still a final exam, so it feels as though the class is trying to rectify a semester long series of mistakes. The TFs did not seem at all invested in the course and were unhelpful in working on the projects.
The thing that stands out about discussion in this class is that everyone has interesting perspectives to contribute from their personal experience with the American education system. Professor Peterson is exceptional at facillitating discussions and - this is important because not enough professors do it - shooting down student ideas that are not well-thought-through. The material is profoundly important to know for being a highly educated citizen of the US, and the reforms we cover - charters, vouchers, class size reduction, etc. - are very interesting. It is pretty laid back yet still engaging. Section was somewhat pointless though - a class that itself is a discussion needs no additional section time.   The reversed classroom format of the class I think is really effective.
this course is a joke in terms of time required. the weekly quizes are very easy as well, just watch an hour of video and you are good to go
It is ironic that a class on education was taught so poorly, and this was probably one of the worst of my Harvard career (as a senior). Feedback throughout the course was bascially nonexistant and very unhelpful. Sections were terrible, mainly due to the TF but also the structure. Lectures consisted of usually pointless discussion. Grading was arbitrary and difficult to understand. The heavily weighted final exam was also an unfortunate assessment given the bomb-threat, also because of the subsequent take-home open-book take home exam.
This course covers a lot of interesting areas relevant to American education reform and provides a good introduction to them. However you could easily watch the videos or read Peterson's book to get the information.  Lecture itself was just a big discussion of people talking about their school experiences which got old.  Overall I'm glad I took this course and learned about education policies in the US, but there are a lot of better ways to get the information across.
The class in itself is easy, but you need to make sure that you do the weekly readings and watch all the videos in order to do well in the class.
Shop the class if you think you're interested!
Easy, interesting, good gov class.
Great course to introduce you to education and the problems and solutions that have been tried on education at a national scale. Great course if you're looking to try a education start up company or simply want to learn more about how the US is failing educationally in comparison to many other superpowers!
There is a lot of potential in the class material, and I did enjoy the project as well, but I felt as if the lecture time could have been used a lot more effectively.
While this course looks good on paper, the class itself was boring and poorly managed. If you want an easy, low effort class which you will take very little away from, then this is the class for you. If you actually care about your education, I would suggest something with actual educational benefit.
Although the material is interesting, especially if you are passionate about education reform, the class needs to be restructured.
This is an easy class. I did not find it difficult and I thought it was manageable with everything else that I was taking. On that note, if you are looking for something to engage you and really change the way you see the American education system-- I don't think that this is the class for that.
The entire grade is basically the final group project. This is a cause for concern.
If you're interested in education policy and have ideas about how to improve education, check the class out.
this is an awesome class if you are at least moderately interested in education reform
If you are looking for an easy elective or gov requirement, this class is definitely worth taking.  It has a lot of strengths.  The topics that we studied were all really fascinating - e.g. merit pay, charter vs. voucher, virtual education - all important debates in the education world.  I definitely have a better sense of the education policy playing field and I really liked the flipped classroom approach, where we watched the lectures before the class, because I was able to learn at my own pace. Another big strength was the guest speaker portion, especially getting to hear from the former Secretary of Education for Massachusetts. If you like group projects, that would also be a big asset to this course - along with the fact that the class only meets once a week and section is a time for working with your group.  Professor Peterson is a great listener who makes himself available outside of class. He does not have an inflated ego despite the fact that he has a great deal of experience in education.  Peterson has published a lot of work in this field and his perspective is a really interesting one to hear, especially on virtual education  a main focus of higher education at the moment.The in class discussions are mainly filled with students telling the class about their own individual experiences in high school and the course does need to develop a better system for providing feedback - I still havent received any concrete grades from the class  but these are two issues that make the class pretty easy.  This is a good class to take if you need to fulfill a requirement plus you will learn things you didnt know about the history of American education.  I would recommend it.
Probably a course to avoid. These guys kind of have to get their stuff together. A relatively satisfactory course in terms of learning about US education, but the course assignments do not fit well at all and really detracted from the experience.
You learn a lot, but you could do it without attending class. They tried to do the flipped classroom model, and failed --which is sad because the content of this class had so much potential for GREAT discussion. But I felt like I spend hours watching videos for class, and then listened to the same thing while sitting in class. They could have improved it, for example, by setting "discussion questions" before hand for us to keep in mind while watching the videos, and having us come to class with opinions ready to share with the class. I never knew what Professor Peterson would choose to focus on, and in any case he would ask us facts that were in the video, I never felt like we were actually having a discussion --more of an in class relaxed quiz session. And, I also felt like he was never objective during discussion --it was always clear what his opinion was, and it was hard to feel like he really listened to you if you didn't share his opinion. I took this class with my best friend, and we had great discussions about the class content --I wish I could have had the same experience with the rest of my classmates
So much to say about this class.1. If you care about minorities or poor people, this is not the class for you. Professor Peterson is only concerned with making the smarter kids smarter, and actually asked "does it matter?" to make the kids who are struggling, proficient. You learn nothing about the achievement gap between low income/minority students and rich/white students, and focus heavily on digital learning, which is basically only going to benefit smart kids with money. He is a huge fan of vouchers and charters, which isn't a bad thing, except he offers no solutions for concrete ed reformie, making neighborhood schools better. 2. SO MANY ONLINE VIDEOS. Why is it necessary to watch an hours worth of videos (or more) just to go to class for 2 hours? It isn't necessary. Class time is spent listening to other people's opinions. Like, because of the videos, we all know what Prof. Peterson thinks about digital learning, school choice, vouchers, ect....so all we do in class is listen to what other students think, which is such a waste of time. There is no need to do that for 2 hours. Maybe 30 minutes, but not 2 hours. And you can tell it's irrelevant because Daniel, the tf, is never even paying attention, just chilling on his laptop sending emails and whatnot. 3. The final project. Jeez. Basically you spend time trying to find a project that Prof. Peterson likes (so basically something involving digital learning or charters) and then struggle to get practical help from your tf (if it's Daniel). You do a policy memo/business plan and a presentation where skeptical classmates try to dissect your idea for no reason, and without taking into account that we actually didn't learn enough to successfully implement our project. How can you choose a project the 2nd week of school when you haven't learned anything yet?3. Grades. You wont know yours because you dont get anything back. The weekly quizzes are graded check minus, check and check plus, and you're only notified if you get a check minus or check plus, but they don't tell you what those grades translate into. And then if your tf is Daniel, you never find out your grade on the project that you spent all semester working on. So on report card day your grade is one big surprise.
If you're interested in the content, it's a really great class.  The teaching staff definitely focuses more on fostering discussion than giving out a certain number of each grade, too, so it's not a terribly stressful class in that sense.  I did the reading/watched lecture videos more out of interest than compulsion, which was a nice change of pace for me.
Professor Peterson is a great lecturer, knows so much about the subject, and is very approachable
It was a fun, pretty easy course, about education.  Since the course's subject area is education (something with which all students have firsthand experience) discussions were interesting and detailed without the need for the students to learn too much background information.  I enjoyed the discussion style lecture and the course project was a very good way to focus on the course material while developing the very important life skill of formally presenting a project proposal.
This is a great course to learn about the problems facing the American education system. Professor Peterson empowers you to find your own solutions to education problems throughout the semester. There is a lot of lecture discussion and the oral presentations are fun. Don't be intimidated. It's well worth it. This is one of the few classes that will help you become comfortable giving presentations and speaking to a class. I highly recommend it.
If you are passionate about the status of American education, or simply interested in acquiring an introductory understanding of the class, this is a great government course.
Read the readings to get a lot more out of the course. Good class but wish there was more feedback on exams rather than just a grade with no comments.
A good class to take if you're looking for an easy, interesting gov elective. While there was a little extra work to do on a weekly basis (Professor Peterson recorded himself lecturing and asked us to watch the lectures before coming to class), the only assignments were a midterm, final, and a group project, which I actually really enjoyed doing.
Do not take this class until there have been significant changes made in who the TF is and the format of lectures.
It's a great class if you're interested in education. Generally the people who choose this class self-select to be those who really care about the issues we discuss. Though some of the discussions were redundant, because the people who would disagree with the class consensus are not the same who would take the class, it's inspiring to be surrounded by such passionate classmates and teachers in a class that deals with very real world problems.
RUN AWAY. This class is a hot mess. Prof. Peterson is a terrible listener and neither he nor Daniel (the TF) have any idea how to lead or facilitate class discussions. Should you make the mistake of taking this course, you will learn a considerable amount about K-12 education, but this truly awful teaching team will make sure it's a miserable experience for you. The final project idea was kind of interesting, and you learn a bit about presenting ideas in a professional context (note that this skill has nothing to do with what the course advertises itself to be) but it really didn't overshadow the grating experience of the rest of the course. It is a shame that such a terrible class on American education exists at Harvard when we have a graduate school dedicated to this subject matter. As someone who is truly interested in education, this course was an unfortunate waste of time.
The material is interesting, but only take this class if you are interested in education.... the class itself (structure, assignments, teaching) leaves something to be desired.
A good survey course of the history of education, but don't expect any real government theme to it.
If you really enjoy education and want to ability to work on a creative final project, this is a great class.
Given that Professor Peterson redesigned the course so he had students watch the pre-recorded lectures ahead of time, the lectures were devoted to debating points enumerated in the lectures and the sections were devoted to preparing students for their final projects. I felt like the redesign had a lot of potential but it fell a little short this year since I felt like the discussions during lecture would focus debating on one or two points mentioned during the lecture, leaving little time to discuss other parts of the lecture. However, do the readings because I learned so incredibly much about the history and educational reforms in the politics of education.
This is a great introduction to American education system, though sometimes can be a little dull. Take plenty of time to work on your final project.
The material is interesting, but it is often neutralized by the operational difficulties of this class.  The TF seems not to care about the students at all.  I never received any responses to the (few) emails I even bothered to send him.  It's really demoralizing, and students stop caring about the class when they see how disengaged the TF is.
Don't worry if you know nothing of education policy, this course covers all you will need.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. If you are interested in education, definitely take it. Even if you aren't that interested in education now, you will be after you take the class. It is one of the best-taught classes at Harvard- the requirements are reasonable and you can tell that the teaching staff really wants you to learn. They are not out to get you with tough grades or crazy assignments- they really want you to learn about a topic that is extremely important today.
I think if you're interested in policy, education, America in general or politics, this would be a great course.  It incorporates a lot of different disciplines: social sciences, history, politics, economics, and is a great introduction to the history of education and the contemporary issues we face to day and why they have developed.
Great class for those interested in the American public education system.
The content in this class is very interesting and the subject is important, but it is very poorly taught.
The class isn't organized very well, and it's possible to get by without really doing a lot of work. But doing the readings and engaging in section discussion is rewarding and especially relevant given the current public interest in education.
This class is not very interesting, even if you find the subject interesting; you'd probably learn more about American education volunteering in a low-income school than taking this course. It's not a waste, it's just not well taught.
If you want to learn about the history of American education, take this course.  If you're interested in the debates in American education and want to dive deeper into the subject, take another course or one at the Graduate School of Education.
Really great subject matter. Not too many assignments but they are interesting when you have to do them. The lectures are a bit dry but the subject matter makes up for that. Overall, a good course to take, but not an all star.
The class is easy in that there's not a lot of work, moderate amount of reading, you do gain insight on the American education process. However, the lack of grades and feedback is not so great; it's also very vague in how it's graded and the lectures are way boring.
This class is by far one of the best government classes I have taken at Harvard. The material is actually really interesting, Professor Peterson is a great professor, the assignments are useful and engaging and you come away from the course having learned a significant amount of material.
At the beginning of this course you will be amazed by how little you know about American Education and by the end, you will be amazed by how much you know.  I whole-heartedly endorse this course.
Do go to the lectures, and you may want to be interested in this topic beforehand or it might bore you
This is a standard gov course. Do not be fooled by the subject matter. But, it turns out this is a particularly great standard gov course, particularly the section component. The level of discussion was very challenging and informative.
Lectures are not particularly engaging, although the course may be the only overview of the politics of education in the US available.
Although there are some organizational flaws to the class, if you are interested in education, this class will provide you with everything you need to know and more. It will inspire you.
It was my favorite class this semester by far.  I enjoyed the readings and help.
Great introduction to education.
The material is interesting and relevant. Lectures are not as exciting.
this class is so much less than it could've been... lectures are boring, there isn't much interesting discussion in section even though everybody in the class is genuinely interested in/passionate about the subject matter, and the midterm grading was silly
It is a course that you can get as much as you want out of it. If your truly interested in American education, take it. If not, the course may turn out to be more of a hassle than anything enjoyable.
Take it, but be aware that you only get one person's opinion on education reform and education history.
The class was not very difficult, and section was interesting. Peterson is very knowledgeable on the subject but does not create extremely enthusiastic lectures.
This was a solid class.  I feel like I learned a lot about American education, and am now in a position to contribute meaningfully to debates on the topic (if I should ever happen to find myself in that situation.)  The Professor is kind, and Daniel Nadler is an excellent TF.  Go to his section if you can.
The material covered by this course is so relevant to what is happening in America and the education system today, this course provided a fantastic insight into the politics of American education.
It is important knowledge, but the class is kind of dry...
It's informative but drags at times.
Great class. Great overview of the American educational system. We study a lot of different topics/aspects, and I feel like I've come away from the course with a richer understanding of education and everything involved in the process.
If you are interested in education then I highly recommend this class.
This course dispels the notion that Harvard is solely a liberal institution and a bastion of massive socialism.  Richard Nixon would be proud.
The material presented in this class is interesting and not found in any other undergraduate course. However, Professor Peterson's lectures are often dry and disorganized, and he primarily presents his own opinion on modern educational debates, particularly school vouchers.
What you'll get out of this course is a pretty thorough understanding of how the modern American education system became what it is today and what the major policy arguments are. The lectures can be boring if you're not really into this stuff.
they should take the class if they're interested in education: it covers a lot of material critical for understanding of the challenges education in the US faces. but do not expect that lectures will contribute a lot to your learning.
The topic is great. Material is covered well. It is somewhat biased towards conservative policies and the lectures are not thrilling.
This class is very factual and an interesting baseline for a study of American education.  It is not particularly driven by debate or hot topics.
For Government concentrators, "The Politics of American Education" is an excellent choice for fulfilling the American government sub-field requirement. However, I belive the class can be enjoyed even by non-Government concentrators provided they have an interest in American education and public policy in that area.
Easy-ish class, great professor who literally wrote the book on the topic (and a good book by the way!).
I was really interested in education, and so I enjoyed the class, but the sections weren't all that great, and the lectures were pretty boring...so beware. If you care about the subject matter a lot, great. Otherwise, find a more engaging class.
Very unorganized lectures.
A fantastic, broad overview on the historical context of the American education system, wrapped up with specific troubles in the contemporary system and potential offered solutions to those problems.
Take very good notes
The course was not very engaging however it provides a springboard for topics to study and go more in depth independently with.
Fun, very interesting material, funny professor, TFs who are interested, and even guest speakers (who happen to have wrote the articles we read!).
The subject matter is interesting, the lectures are a little slow.
If you put the effort in you will learn a lot.
I liked the class a lot if you are interested in the material, that being said if you weren't interested in the material the lectures would have been fairly dull
interesting subject matter and the course is not too difficult
The content was interesting but the lectures and sections were boring.
That they should only take this course if they are willing to not blindly listen to the professor's lectures.  It is critical to both listen and look at the figures he shows and then to draw your own conclusions
This class is endlessly interesting if you care about American education. The material applies to our everyday lives and is well taught. Sections, however, were among the worst I have had at Harvard. A real disappointment.
Easy class that will give you dinner party knowledge of education policy
Take it if you're interested in the American education system, even if you think you already know a lot. Trust me - you don't.
This class is extremely interesting and is a class everyone should take to understand more about a crucial foundation of America.
The course does a wonderful job of challenging you to think about educational reform through a new lens.  It is wonderfully unsettling to learn that the reforms that seem obvious and achieve broad consensus often are the most ineffective.  The reforms that are the least politically viable and contentious offer the greatest potential for actual reform.  Be open minded about choice and competition in education.  If you patently reject consideration of their potential, you will be closed off from truly engaging with the issues and the deep learning associated with it.
very good class for anyone who wants to have a general knowledge of education and education reform.
Take this course for the subject matter only, not for the instruction.
Peterson is a little bit dry, but you can learn a lot about the American education system in this class.
You learn about how you learned (think about it)
Solid introduction, though it can be more substantive.
Politics of American Education deserves a second look.  At first glance, it might seem like a boring government class, but the material we went into was actually pretty interesting and relevant to our lives as well as our nation's future.
Painless, but pretty boring
You'd better be a policy wonk -- but if you can handle a little wonkery, this class is an excellent and relatively painless introduction to the complex world of education politics. I learned more in this class than any other I've ever taken. Warning: lots of empirical data involved. Not for the theoretically-minded, you will be frustrated.
Readings are fantastic.  Lectures are a bit muddled.  Depending on your TF, you may or may not ever know what is expected of you on assignments.  So choose (lottery?) wisely.
