Workload was easy but I didnt feel like I learned that much.
This course is definitely what you make it. The work time commitment is infinitesimal. In addition to being short, though, the readings are very interesting and clear, which is where I did most of the learning in this course. Lectures are a bit confusing, but the material is nothing that you can't understand through the readings. That said, the material could probably be learned on one's own.
You will learn a great deal about the inner workings of Congress and its effect on the public. Since the workload is lighter than most, it's a great course to take in conjunction with intensive work-heavy classes. It's enjoyable and painless.
This is an absolutely great class. Not that work is required, but the more you put into it, the more you will learn. Sections and lectures are optional, but attending them greatly helps on exams. I went to all the lectures and sections and the exams seemed easy for me. some of my friends didn't do this and they had some difficulty. Also, Professor Platt's lectures are awesome.
informative and accessible
If you write well, this is the class for you!
Very easy. The lectures are great, you should go.
waste of your time with all the amazing classes at this school
for high level gov students this class will be a bore.  its good if you want to take a class with a lighter work load.  don't be fooled though, course is still graded pretty tough.
The papers seem tricky but are graded VERY leniently. Take it pass/fail and you can be done by mid-April!
This is the easiest class I have taken. Section is optional!
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!  The professor is the best lecturer and is extremeley intersting and funny.  The TFs really help break down the readings in section.  Definitely the best class I've taken while at Harvard.  Professor Platt makes you excited about the material and the guest speakers are fascinating.
This class requires very little of the student, which can make it less than rewarding. Prof. Platt is awesome though.
It's an incredibly light workload (4 5-page papers, no midterm, no final).  You can do a minimum amount of reading but still learn a lot.  Sections are optional.
Good and interesting course and doesn't need much reading to do the four short essays which make up the whole grade. Lectures and sections were optional.
This is a fun, easy interesting class
It's an easy class - only four 5-page essays. You don't really need to read the readings. Attending lecture gives you a pretty good idea of what's going on. Then, you can skim the readings necessary for the prompt / question you end up choosing to answer. Take this for an easy class.
Only take this course if you are already a Gov concentrator.  Otherwise you leave the course with a sizable body of fairly technical knowledge of the Congress that is not incredibly valuable in the world beyond political science
Take this course!
Easiest class I've taken at Harvard
Great for thesis-writing seniors. When you're really busy, you can choose not to put much time into the class, but it's interesting enough that you'll want to devote more time to it after your thesis.
if you want to actually learn something, don't bother
This is a great course, but because there are only four components that comprise your grade you need to put a lot of effort into these essays. Luckily they are only 3-5 pages. Go to section! Section is very useful.
Very little time is required
Professor Platt is funny and charismatic, but the course is not well organized. Section is useless. It's moderately interesting material, but just keep in mind that it is not really a course about the workings of Congress, so much as a course about various political theories using Congress as a case study.
This is a great course for students who want to take a gov class and learn a lot about a new topic. I would highly recommend going to section, it is fun and interesting and really helpful for the exams.
It's an easy gov class but I don't know if it's worth it. I think I would have done a lot better in a different, more difficult gov class.
Lectures are not needed to do well on the papers, but they are interesting and if you do go to them and pay attention it's tough not to do well on the papers.
This course is extremely easy. All of the information is fairly basic and the exams are not stressful at all. With sections being optional, lectures regularly ending early, and only four 3 page papers you can't go wrong here.
This is a great introductory class. Relatively low workload but I still felt like I got a good introduction to the basic structure of Congress and the problems that come up in enacting policy.
It is a relatively painless way to fulfill the american government requirement for gov majors, or just to have a pretty painless class for people used to writing papers. This is not an easy class, but the requirements make it manageable.
Its not a high workload class, but you may not get a lot out of it.
I would like to tell them that it is AWESOME!
This is a fairly easy class, but if you want to get anything out of it, you have to go to optional section and try to keep up with the readings, which is really hard. The readings are dense, technical and boring but you need to read them for the papers, which ask fair questions and are graded fairly. Lectures are hard to understand and really will not help you much.
very few requirements
fairly easy class
VERY low workload and pretty interesting material if you're at all interested in gov.  Take this course.
This is probably the easiest class I have taken at Harvard. There are only 4 3-5 page papers throughout the entire semester and I found the grading to be pretty lenient. Also, you don't have to do the readings or attend the lectures. You can just wait until the professor posts the questions for the exam and then do the readings that pertain to that topic (the questions usually only cover one topic and the syllabus breaks these down pretty easily). This is a great class to take for an easy course, but there's not much incentive to actually learn the material.
not an impressive gov class that you think of at harvard
easy and interesting. Lectures help a lot to write the essays.
This is a really great class and you learn a lot. The exams are pretty easy and Matt makes the lectures funny
You can make it what you want, it is really enjoyable.
Great class. Professor Platt is a great lecturer and he makes the lectures very entertaining with funny references. That being said going to class is not required to do well at all.
This is the only class I took this year that I might not have taken if I went back in time...Because it's "easy," no one does anything, which basically means that a lot of the people treat the class as a way to just write four essays and get credit for it. The course structure breeds apathy, which is sometimes reciprocated by the teaching staff (unless that just happened this year because of the mad rush to hire a ton of TFs last minute..). If you're taking this class because it's "easy," fine..it's only "easy" if you don't do any of the work.
Too easy so you don't learn very much, but a good class to take as a senior
The class lectures are extremely interesting and I never once got bored.  The amount of material covered is also impressive.
This class actually made me less interested in Congress and that's saying something as a Gov concentrator with a focus in American government. The class was poorly run. Professor Platt didn't care if students attended lecture or section. This may be a good thing as it allowed students so much flexibility, but I learned very little really beyond what the exams called for. The exam questions were ambiguous and obviously ill-thought out. The curve was also extremely rigid. DON'T TAKE THIS CLASS. I really think I wasted my time.
Ridiculously easy to get an A, but you will never actually learn anything.
The lectures are not that organized. He speaks really quickly and the lecture slides don't have that much information (probably so more people go to class and don't just rely on the slides). The exams are fair, generally three prompts, you have a week to complete them. The readings are ridiculous in length therefore not too many people do them. However in the end they are very helpful with completing your exams and gaining more knowledge then what you have ascertained from lecture. Section is optional so barely anyone goes, however it can be helpful, because due to the small class size you can easily spend a lot of time reviewing material you don't understand or are confused about.
This is a very interesting and important class to understand how politics in our class work.
This is a great elective to take where the teaching staff doesn't assign pointless, and time consuming work.  Also a very general and interesting government class if you don't know much.
If you know much about Congress, don't take it.
to read all the articles and go to lectures and section because they are very beneficial
Easy.
It is a nice class to take if you are going to be taking fairly hard classes at the same time.
Go to class and go to section. Some of the exam questions may sound confusing if you skip class and section leaders are very helpful when it comes to preparing you for the exams.
unless this class is re-structured, it is not helpful. there is little to no incentive to do the readings, or even go to lectures. since section is optional, most people don't go to that either, which makes things awkward if you do go. people cram right before the papers are due. you learn about the topicof your paper, but that's pretty much it. and there is little to no feedback on each paper you write, either.
It is easy to do well but the lectures and reading are dull.
You can learn as much as you want to in the course. If you want to learn, you can read and actually learn a lot. But if you're busy with other courses and extracurriculars, you can get away with very little work.
The class does have an easy reputation and you can probably get by without doing much.  But if you take it seriously, you'll find that the lectures are AMAZING, the topic is really important, the readings are applicable to real life.  Take it seriously and you'll get a lot out of this class.
Good overview of institution of Congress but not personalities of Congress.
I think that the amount of effort required to put into the class depends on the TF you get, which can be frustrating.
It's worthwhile to attend lectures because it will help when you have to cram to write the papers
Definitely a gut -- you're way ahead of the game if you just show up for lecture and section -- so you don't have to do very much, but you also won't learn that much.
Intro to Congress is definitely lighter gov course but still is a great learning experience. Non-mandatory sections can be something to get accustomed to but make sure to stay on top of readings
Great class
This is a very interesting class.
Go to section.
Be careful! While the workload is low, this can seriously come back to haunt you because you are not really prepared for what is asked of you!!
It is a good class that teaches the basics of our political system
Pass/fail this class senior spring
It did not add to my general knowledge of life.
great class
If you want a straightforward class on the Congress without the large amounts of assignments, then you should take this course.
The lectures are pretty terrible, the work is favorable.
Easiest Gov class EVER! Minimal, minimal work, you don't even have to go to class. If you're looking to do absolutely nothing and at worst get an A-, this is the class for you.
if you like american government this is for you
The difficulty level depends on who your TF is and you definitely decide how much you will take away from this course.
Straightforward, lectures not mandatory, neither are sections but they are helpful to go to, assignments can be annoying but there are no surprises here.
If you're looking for a class with a manageable workload within the Gov department, this one is solid. Professor Platt is a good lecturer, and the lecture slides are funny. By the end of the semester, lecture and section attendance begin to dwindle.
The questions ask you to think a little theoretically and hypothetically on the papers. It can be weird at first if you have never written a gov paper, but the staff is really good about letting you know what they expect of you. Go to section! They are super fair about grading and don't ask anything absurd of you.
Lecture is fun and even though not as many students go as they should, I think it's definitely worth it. The exams are a pain though, the topics aren't really interesting and the grading for them is weird as well.
Take it! Professor Platt is great. Work load is very manageable.
Very, very light workload.  Attendance to both lecture and section is optional, but lecture notes do help with the writing assignments.  The class is not very involved at all.
The work in this class builds up if you don't do the readings as they are assigned.
It's interesting, the exam structure is super helpful and it takes a lot of stress out of midterms/finals and actually forces you to really learn the material.Professor Platt makes information you might not find otherwise interesting really enjoyable to learn. Lectures have a good dose of humor.
This class can be very dull if you are not interested in american politics. With that said, it is a great class to test the waters of government with.
I thoroughly enjoyed the lectures as Professor Platt integrated current events. The paper topics were also very interesting and reinforced the material. I felt that I finished the course with a strong grasp of the U.S. Congress. This is a very easy workload. I spent a lot of time on the course when we had papers due but it did not require much time on the whole. I would definitely recommend.
Go to lecture. Go to section. The professor and TFs are great resources that should be taken advantage of. Engage with the material and discuss it in section...that's how you actually learn!
This class is a fun and easy way to fulfill a government requirement. However, if you are not the least bit interested in congress this is not a class you should take.
Interesting and easy.
The four exams seem like they'll be easy.  But, if you screw one up, the whole course is done. Also, a lot of the information is very common sense and seems boring to learn.
You end up working very hard on final papers, but the rest of the class is manageable.
Many take this class as an 'easy' class, but if you try and do the work well you can take a lot from the course materials and teaching staff.
Platt is a great lecturer. If yu pay attention, you can get a lot out of this class
Take this class not for the easy workload, but if the material genuinely interests you.  Classic example of the college academic experience giving as much back to you as you put in.  You can get by with very little work and pull off a decent grade, but you'll feel much more fulfilled if you go to section and lecture and are an active participant.
Just an absolutely great class that gives a student a good foundation on everything incorporated with Congress.
Unbelievably easy. I never attended lecture or section.
The readings are really informational. you can get by on minimal work, or lots of work
You should be a student interested in Government. Otherwise, this course may seem boring at times.
Do the readings and write the paper. It's easy.
Easiest course I have taken at Harvard! I definitely recommend it.
good elective
This is probably the easiest course in the government department. The course's set up doesn't provide much incentive to go to lecture/section, but if you're interested in the class you should try to anyway. Platt is a solid lecturer, and my TF (Joseph) was great.
Fairly easy course. Make sure to attend section and use numerous sources in your papers.
This class is a great introduction course to government. In addition, the exam papers were an really interesting way to be tested, I had never been exposed to that method at Harvard.
Very easy/low workload for a Gov class.  No exams, papers graded very leniently, and optional section (though you should go as it helps with the papers).  Professor Platt goes out of his way to try to make his lectures on a dense subject funny and entertaining.
easy concentration class or elective, light workload
I reccomend this course as an easy government class/elective but not as an engaging, thoughtful class.
Satisfaction with this class really depends on what you wish to gain from it.  If you're a spring semester senior looking for the easiest class possible with minimal effort required, this is the class for you.  Attending lecture and section really isn't necessary to do well in this class.
It is a very interesting way to learn about our government and how it works.
Take if you need an easy elective, but it's easy to not learn much unless you make an effort to go to class and do the readings.
Stay on top of the readings; this will enable you to easily complete the paper assignments. Also, take advantage of Professor Platt's Talking Politics program, they offer a great opportunity to interact with the professor.
So boring; felt like I hardly learned anything.
very easy. interesting course to take as an elective. only 4 papers.
Very very manageable US Government concentration requirement. Platt is a great lecturer. Optional sections are a plus. Assignment structure of midterms is nice.
This is a very nice course for students with lots of other time commitments. Prof. Platt is a really great lecturer and connects well with his audience.
You won't actually learn much about Congress, but take this course because it's easy and enjoyable.
Learned a lot without feeling overwhelmed by work; thus, took assignments and sections more seriously because they weren't as pressurized; the exam format is good for people who need structure to work
Pretty good class with only a few papers.  However, because of this, each one is weighted significantly and it is pretty difficult to get a great grade.
An awesome class which is not very time consuming, isn't particularly difficult and that has very interesting lectures.
A great, easy class that is highly informative with a fun and engaging professor.
The course exam structure may change in the future, but if its kept the same as it was this year, you'll really enjoy it.  The essays are very doable and graded very fairly.
Assignments are manageable, material usually interesting.  Lectures could use more work
It's an enjoyable class and the workload is fairly light.
Take the papers seriously!
Good overview of Congress if you don't know anything about it.
The class isn't very difficult, but it's not the best class in the gov department. Very little work, but also not super informative. You could probably learn most of what you learn in this class just by reading a textbook.
It's an easy course with low expectations, but if you are one of the six hardcore gov concentrators at the school, you might want to shop around.
Useful if you're looking to work in policy.
Great class with only 4 papers to make up your grade. The Professor Platt is incredibly enthusiastic about the subject matter, and he made it wicked enjoyable to come to class.
The assignments are super painless and if you do the reading you will learn. It's really easy to skip the readings and section, though, in which case I think that you'll find the class pretty boring. Lectures are really entertaining, though very sparsely attended.
Try to keep up with concepts in class for homework
...
This class demands very little of your time and energy.
Figure out what your TF wants when writing your essay.
This class is a great introduction to Congress class, very easy American Gov credit if you don't know anything about American history/government.
Its easy but kind of annoying, not necessary, too easy
As a foreign student I knew basically nothing about American politics before I took this course. It was very interesting and has made me think about changing concentration from the life sciences to government. I would highly recommend taking this class even if you are only remotely interested in government.
The professor gives very engaging, interesting, and relevant lectures
Your grade is based on four short essays. As a result, it's pretty easy but there is no incentive to read for section or even go to lecture, which is why section discussions were really bad. That said, professor platt tries hard to make lectures funny with a lot of pop culture references and jokes. Fun, easy, but you won't learn much or be very intellectually stimulated.
Interesting. Lectures are very good...the professor mixes in videos, pictures, pop-culture references that break things up. Sometimes class goes a little too fast but it isn't too bad. Not a gov concentrator, but I still enjoyed it.
You will only take a away a lot from this course if you put a lot into it. It is very easy to get by without doing much at all, and while that may be appealing, it is not a very satisfying feeling.
great class to learn about the complexities of Congress
Minimal work, short papers
The lectures are really entertaining and you learn a lot, and the workload is really, really light. But for some reason, it almost felt too easy, like we weren't being pushed hard enough.
The readings and papers are the most engaging part of the course
If you are planning to concentrate in government, then this class is a good one to take.
This doesn't really seem to be an intro class, the readings are very technical and dense, and you probably won't come away very satisfied. Where the professor is friendly and entertaining, his lectures are too brief and fast-paced. The workload is manageable, so it might be a good addition if your other courses are very demanding.
This class is pretty easy and interesting, especially if you are a gov major.
The professor is good. The workload is, unsurprisingly, manageable, since you only really need to write four papers. But if you do--or even just skim--the readings you'll (also unsurprisingly) learn more and understand what's going on better, even if it's not the most time efficient approach.
This class is very easy, so it would be easy to enjoy if you are into the subject material.
Good class and interesting material. Not much work or class time. No final :)
Short classes, moderate reading, fun sections
The only effort you have to put into this course is when you are writing the exam essays. You don't have to do any of the reading until you pick your topic for exams because you aren't required to know the readings for section. Also, definitely don't blow off the exams. They aren't that hard, but make sure your organization is clear and logical and you answer the entire question.
Great class! interesting and not that hard. Section leaders are very important to the experience.
Good for seniors, interesting and not too much work.
You will learn a lot, but be prepared to be frustrated with sections and with Prof. Platt's flexibility. He is extremely strict when it comes to late assignments and missed classes-- unfairly so, in my opinion.
go to section. don't go to lecture. do the readings relevant to the essay questions.
Easy way to fill a gov req or elective
This class's content is awesome - I thought it would be a drugding history of Congress, but it was an enlightening, interesting look at how Congress has changed and continues to change.  However, the class lacks accountability, so despite the fact that I knew I could get so much out of it, I found myself doing the absolute minimum, which consisted of occassionally glancing at readings so I would know what to check out for the 4 3-5 page papers.
I would tell future students that I really enjoyed Professor Platts lectures. The topcis were interesing for anyone interested in politics/government.
Go to lecture, it's fun.  Also try to contribute and foster a discussion in lecture.
very easy course.
Great class - a lot of fun.
This course is a great class, but gets into some very not intro theories as they relate to Congress. Also, do not expect to learn how things actually work in Congress. The class is very theoretical
Very informative and not a heavy workload by any means. Great class to take if you're interested in current Government.
A bit dry but informative nonetheless. Prof does a good job of trying to spice things up.
Very interesting to learn about how Congress works and how it compliments what the president does.
Extremely easy course.
I felt like the grading was average and the lack of a participation grade really hindered the class overall.
Great introduction to Congress, and the grading is generous, fair, and didn't screw me over.
Even though it is not a lot of work, I never felt motivated about the course.
The class is interesting, but can be hard.
I would tell future students that this is an interesting course with interesting readings, but that they will probably learn more by taking other classes in the political science department.  Lectures were interesting on their own but were disjointed, and there was little structure unifying the course from lecture to lecture.  Sections were not required and discussions were often poor.  In addition, the course requires four take-home exams, which means that work is minimal - however, it also means that students don't really learn about or study the topics other than the ones they choose to write about, which prevented me from emerging from the course with any overarching conception of how Congress works.  I learned a lot about individual topics in Congress (legislative rules, electoral incentives, etc.), but I'm still not sure how they coalesced to create the modern institutional foundations of Congress.
By far, the best course I have taken at Harvard thus far. Professor Platt is amazing - funny, brilliant, and down-to-earth. You will leave this class a mini-expert in Congress. If you actually want to learn important, relevant stuff - TAKE THIS COURSE! You will not regret it for a second. Amazing elective.
great class
If you are truly interested in the mechanics of working through a spatial model maybe this is the class for you but having thought this was a historical presentation of what Congress is about about the cogs of that system I was horribly mistaken.
Unless you are a very visual learner this is one to avoid: interesting and important subject matter but let down by poorly designed exams that were worth 25% of the grade each!
Tests in the class have gotten more difficult, and are given over weekends. If you are a spring athlete be careful with this choice, because time allotment for tests is not extended even if you have a rigorous athletic schedule on that particular weekend.
The exams are poorly written and confusing, just going to lecture does not ensure that you will be ready to take the exams
Interesting class, Platt was great. Don't take assuming it's an easy A as the course was changed from the past and most people did poorly.
This class is pretty simple and easy but don't take it just for the sake of getting an "easy A". Your time here at Harvard is limited and if you aren't actually interested in Congress....don't take this class then.
New format is difficult. Exams require a lot of time.
This was the worst class I have ever taken at Harvard; lectures were very basic and could be summarized in 2 sentences; no one ever showed up to sections because they were optional (which really discouraged those who did show up); HUGE grade disparities and section effectiveness between TFs (some went through readings while others did not, and some gave really high grades while others did not); grading scheme is terrible (the point system meant that if you did poorly on the first exam, you are screwed for an A); professor is unwilling to accommodate grade disparities between TFs, or allow section changes after allowing other people to switch; overall, this class was a waste of time (and my GPA)
Although lectures are not bad, the overall relaxed feeling of the course makes it difficult to stay engaged with the course material outside of class, which makes the class less than worthwhile.
They made this class harder this year. The exams were time-consuming and covered material that was often not mentioned or explained well in class. I went to class every day and still struggled on the exams.
Just stay on top of the readings, and go to lecture. This course (as well as attending the lectures for the course) is definitely well-worth your time.
The class is relatively easy. Just make sure to not fall behind on the readings!!
Professor Platt is an entertaining lecturer and this is a good intro gov course. Exams were made more difficult last year, with more specific information required (i.e. do the reading) to accurately answer each question on the exam.
Nothing.
The lectures: easy. The sections: easy. The exams: extremely difficult and your entire grade is based on them.
It's not a gem. Do not take it unless you know Congress inside and out.
They have made the course tougher to go against previous claims of this being the "easiest course at harvard"
This class was ridiculous. So poorly organized and misleading in its workload. Professor Platt was almost unfair in the specificity of the questions he asked on the exams and there was a clear disconnect between the prof and his tfs. This was hugely problematic. I am a senior government concentrator and this was perhaps the worst class I have ever taken both in the government department and at Harvard in general.
Dont take it.
they made it really hard and unfair this year. only take it if they change it back to the old way
Take-home exam questions tend to be vaguely worded and are intensely frustrating.
Lectures were interesting to go to, but did not help prepare you for exams, which were almost completely based on the readings. This did not incentivize attendance at lecture. I learned more from teaching myself concepts during the take-home exams than from lectures. This class could be amazing if they coordinate lectures and evaluations better next year.
Exam questions can be unclear.
False advertisement. The professor billed this as an easy class and then proceeded to make it very difficult.
This course has interesting reading and interesting lectures. However, the tests are not very clearly written and take longer than expected to complete. If you want to do well, you're going to have to work harder than you might expect.
The lectures were interesting and informative.  The class is definitely laid back in that it is only take home exams and section was barely held.  But, exams were then sufficiently tricky.
A course that challenges you a little and gets you to learn about Congress. Not much work required until exam time. The exams are vague and can be annoying at times.
I really enjoyed this class and feel like I came away with an enhanced knowledge of our Congress and a greater sense of the problems and reasons for these problems.  I loved lectures -- Professor Platt is engaging and funny and very skilled. I think that many people say it's easy, but the take-home exams are actually pretty tricky if you haven't done the readings or attended lecture.
Do not take this as an easy class. You'll probably do well, but those exams actually require some work and an understanding of the readings. Also, go to lecturer because the lecturer slides are useless without notes.
Do not take this course unless you are looking to burden yourself necessarily with a supposed "introductory" course that in reality is not introductory at all
.
its a little more in depth than an introductory course.
The class is interesting, but the exams are not exactly representative of what has been taught in lecture.
I would tell future students who genuinely want to learn about Congress in a stimulating way not to take this course. If you are a student looking for a low time commitment course, this is a good option (optional section, you dont need to go to lectures to do the exams, etc).
Definitely not "the easiest class at Harvard" anymore. I was disappointed that I didn't learn more. I wish we had focused more on current events.
Very basic. Read Wikipedia instead.
I would say that the exams are graded out of 50 which makes it very difficult to recieve proper credit, and I would say that there is a great deal of grade discrepency amongst the TFs.
This class is a straightforward government class in which you can learn a lot about the way the United States Congress works.  However, the discrepancy in grading from the courses TFs and the Professor's indifference to this discrepancy made it a nightmare for a lot of students this year.
Fun class, low time commitment.
Platt received pressure to make the class more difficult. By far the least useful class at Harvard, I learned absolutely nothing about Congress.
Four take home exams, average lectures.
This class is able to give you a broad overview of Congress but it is not very well organized sometimes.
This course is terrible. The exams don't really relate to class, and the grading is draconian. Platt is a very humorous, intelligent lecturer, and I would recommend listening to him, just not in the context of this horrible class.
Don't believe the teacher when he tells you that he gives everyone A's
This course was intended to be difficult, it seemed, to reverse the reputation of the course as an easy one from last year. Go to lecture.
This class was not at all what I expected it to be.  It was too fast-paced to be considered an actual introductory course, and I felt that many of the exam questions were designed to trick you rather than test your understanding of the material.  I also thought that the TF system negatively affected this course.
grading is too arbitrary, assignments are difficult and not necessarily based off what you learn in class/section
Complete waste of time but relatively easy A- or A with minimal work. Overall, a good fourth class if you have a lot of other stuff going on during the semester.
Take-home exams. They're tough, a lot tougher than previous years, but it's about four hours of work every three weeks. Pretty chill.
In the past this class probably was very easy. The current state of it is clearly a response to former Q scores that made it seem like this was a give-me class. It is not longer a fourth class and until some serious rearrangements are made, it's not even worth taking as a government concentrator. The reactionary stance this class took really shot it over the edge, making it completely unmediated and pointless.
I took this class because I thought it was easy but it is not.  Also, the material is very dry so unless you are interested in nitty gritty political science this is not the course for you.
This course is now difficult. The assignments are highly technical, and there is little clarification about what is expected. Prof Platt is largely indifferent to the student experience. This class is clearly not his priority.
The grading is largely based on which section TF you have.
Although the Q evaluations may make this class seem easy, it was not. The class is not very organized, and lacks cohesion. Your grade is completely dependent on the section teaching fellow you are designated and the way he grades. I do not recommend this class, as the amount of work you put in, sometimes doesn't reflect on the grade you obtain.
its fine, if you don't want to have to attend every class. Lectures  can be good, if you go.
Poorly designed course with ineffective lectures and convoluted exams.
It became much more difficult this year and there was a LOT of general discontent about the grading scale.
The class is pretty easy but it's not the most fun or rewarding.
Useless class full of esoteric knowledge. Then you get to answer exam questions that are completely irrelevant in the real world.
There's no work besides the four take home exams, but you should go to lecture or you're screwed.
Not the gem it used to be
This class is super unorganized. Don't take it just because you think it will be an easy A. It really isn't. Just because there are 4 take home exams doesn't mean that they will be easy. Even with the lectures and the readings, the exams are such a pain. It is a waste of time, take another gov class.
You don't learn as much as you would hope and the exams are incredibly difficult just because the Professor is trying to make a point.  The questions are convoluted and they are not satisfying even when the time and effort is put in.
Interesting, low workload, exams were somewhat vague, but the grading was fair.
Do not take this course unless you have some inherent interest in Congress because the four exams will be literally painful otherwise.
Got shafted.
Having completed the class, i now know many of the intricacies around Congress, but still do not understand the basics.  The class is based entirely on four take-home exams that all look for very specific details from the readings, and do not focus on actually how congress works.  I would certainly not take this class had i known this was the format, and i do not recommend it.
The exams were often about concepts out of the dense readings not lecture itself- which was not useful in teaching me anything substantive about American government.
don't take this course - you have to teach yourself everything you need to know for the exams. the exams seem like they are purposely designed to trick you. i didn't learn anything about congress except that professor platt thinks it sucks.
It's not as easy as everyone says it it is
Taking this class was a mistake. Professor Platt has little to no regard for his students or their grades. He was unhelpful, condescending, and borderline rude at office hours. The lectures made very few actual points, and sometimes they flat out did not make much sense. The content seemed thrown together in a random order, and professor Platt was very redundant. I am not prepared to say that my knowledge of Congress grew from this class in any major way, which is a shame because I am interested in government. This class was considered easy in the past, and this year the course changed dramatically - ie very difficult midterms.
It is a useful class especially for Gov concentrators. The tests are not easy, but there isn't too much work outside of that besides for reading so it is very manageable.
tough class
The exams are a pain to do and grading can be somewhat arbitrary seeming on the essay portions. Overall the class is advertised as easy but there are better options. Take it only if you are interested in government or politics.
The new exam format is pretty tough. Questions aren't worded very well.
The exams which are the only grades in the course are very difficult and in-depth.
Make sure you get a good TF because the discrepancy between them is unbelievable.
If Platt is still the Professor, I would steer clear.
Do not take this class
Unless you actually care about how Congress runs, do not take this class.  No longer an easy A
The exams were made to be confusing.
This course is fairly easy and the work load is reasonable, and you can get a lot out of it.
Do the readings in a timely fashion and you'll be fine for the exams. Do not procrastinate because the day before the exam is due you will be overwhelmed and perform poorly.
Very easy, but not too rewarding. I think this class needs mandatory section and reading quizes to incentivize participation. There needs to be some motivation to wake up and actually go to class.
This course confirmed that it is not enough to look at the evaluations of past years--there were many changes made to this course, which mislead many of the students who chose to take it. This resulted in a lot of stress and unmanageable work. The grade differentials based on TFs is also quite an issue, and leaves a lot up to the objectivity of each individual TF.
Although it has a very interesting lecturer, the course material is not always connected to themes discussed that week or to the exams. Additionally, the take home exams are over the weekend (coincidentally over two campus-wide extremely busy extracurricular weekends of Cultural Rhythms and Visitas), and take a fair amount of time to do. There is also very little structured support outside the course for exams (such as availability of TF office hours over the weekend and a study session for the final exam).
This class was harder than it was in previous years. It's format this year was 4 take home midterms and could definitely be taken as a 5th class or an easy class on top of other classes. However, if you do not go to lecture or don't try at all, it will not be as you think.If you go to lecture, you will definitely learn something about Congress and most of the take homes will be straightforward. If you do not go to lecture/skip a few, then you will be faced with having to go through a ton of readings and getting lecture notes.Ultimately, this class can be taken as four days of work over the semester. The takehomes were given over a weekend. Most people started Sunday night, hated it, complained about it, and finished by the deadline and got A's/A-'s. Having said that... the class is almost easier if you go to  most lectures. Platt is pretty interesting and makes lectures funny. Ultimately. Go to lecture. The class will be straightforward. Outside of lecture, you will have no work. The readings can all be done when doing the take homes.
Professor Platt is an awesome lecturer and you will learn a lot!!
I really liked the class. Prof. Platt is great and keeps lectures interesting. You'll get out of the class the amount of work that you put in. I wish I had actually done the readings because I feel like I would have really learned something and enjoyed the class much more.
It's an easy, painless introduction to how and why Congress works the way it does.
The material that is covered is extremely interesting and the professor gives great lectures but the test component can often be confusing.
Do not take this course.
Platt is a great lecturer however the exams are extremely difficult and do not reflect the material from lecture. This class was harder than Gov 20.
This course is extremely difficult without being at all informative. I wouldn't recommend it because I don't think that it even fulfills its own stated goals of giving the student a good understanding of the workings of congress.
The exams are difficult. Keep up with the readings (seriously) and you should be fine. Go to section (even though it's optional) - it's very helpful. Also, record the lectures in Word. Prof. Platt speaks very quickly and having audio is helpful come exam time.
Take it
It's a great class, with a very manageable workload. if you attend lecture and do the readings, you'll learn a lot of interesting information about Congress and American politics.
It's tougher than it was! But go to class, do the readings, and you'll come out with a better understanding of the ins and outs of Congress than you would have thought.
This class is not the most engaging, but in the end you do leave with a general knowledge of how Congress works. Most of the learning comes through doing the exams, which are fairly unpredictable. Overall I was unsatisfied with grades I received and the hours I put into the 4 exams.
This course fulfills the American Government requirement for government. However, a lot of the work must be done on your own
Don't take this class.
It seems as though the exams were made much more difficult this year.  If your section isn't helpful, you should do the readings before taking exams.
the take-home tests are very time consuming - you need to allocate your entire weekend to getting them done (1-2 full days)
Worst class I've taken at Harvard, bar none (I'm a second semester senior).  Be prepared to teach yourself everything by reading a lot of government journal papers because the lectures are usually not related to anything you'd be tested.  Sections were more helpful than lectures, but not by much.  The exams were challenging only because we were tested on things that weren't covered in class.  Basically a waste of time.
This class was significantly harder than previous years.  It is still a good elective to take because it is interesting and the assignments are structured in a way that isn't too painful.  Some of the take-home midterms are easier than others.  Definitely worth shopping but it is not the gem that it was in years past - there may be better electives out there.
The material featured in this class is interesting if you are like me and find institutional design interesting.  However, the lectures are performed too quickly for students to get the full value out of them, and the method of evaluation is entirely unfair due to the fact that the tests are incomprehensible.
Hands down the worst class I took at Harvard College. Don't be tricked into thinking this course is a "gem" when it is not. Honestly, the readings have nothing to do with the lectures and the Exams are way to difficult considering it's an introductory course. Don't take this class, you will absolutely regret it in the end. In fact, my TF told me not only that he made it harder on purpose (because everyone was getting A's before I took the course) but he will get suspicious if the TF give too many good grades. So, TF's look for reasons to give you lower score than you other wise would have (For example getting 3 out of 4 on a question you answered completely correct or getting 0/4 on a question you answered half correct). And when a class only has 4 - 50point exams, that proves almost too difficult and too fatal
Unless you have background in government, you will find this class challenging and confusing.
Be on top of your readings, and even if you are, be warned that the exams are tough
If you want to get something out of it, go to section and class. Not necessary though
Very disorganized and unclear expectations.
This course has the potential to be an extraordinary class. However, as of now it isn't the greatest course. Most readings are not all that engaging and section is not mandatory so very little good discussion takes place.
The exams are absolutely absurd, and don't match the material covered in the lecture at all. You don't actually comprehend anything taught in lecture unless you spend a lot of time doing research and reading on your own...but even so, I couldn't exactly understand much because I have never been really exposed to government. Don't take the class if you haven't, and are trying to get an A in a class.
DON'T TAKE THIS COURSE. Platt is a horrible professor who uses a rubric for the exams that is impossibly strict. This course is terrible.
This course was much harder than previous years. Make sure to get a good TF or switch because most of the course is taught in section. Lecture's are very engaging but are difficult to reference back on because most slides just have pictures.
unless you need to take it, don't take it.
This course is brutal. Literally went from being easy last year to just being plain old confusing. Not enough time spent on the important stuff and issues I really wished I knew about.
Though this course may not be the cake walk it was in previous years, it is still not very strenuous and also teaches you important things about current events.
Informative course that helps you understand the inner working of Congress.
Go to lecture that will give you  have a general idea of major schools of thought, models and concepts that Prof Platt wants you to use in the exams. That also helps you see congress in a different light. I personally have a more optimistic outlook b/c now I have a better idea of why it is the way it is and the reasons for and against certain institutional changes that are often recommended. This is a pretty pragmatic gov class for introducing you to the field of political science and helping you understand congress. The workload is doable, just know exams can be intense if you have not gone to lecture and do not know the major points of key readings he emphasizes in class.
It used to be easy but Platt made the exams really hard and it is not worth the headache you will have for four weekend during the semester when you have to search through obscure readings to find answers to poorly constructed questions.  If you want an easy gov class this is not it!
It is a tricky class because of how it is presented and taught and what is expected for exams.
The exams are lengthy and unrelated to lecture material.
If you would like an introduction to the basic foundations of congress, than this is a good course to take.
If even if you're not a gov't major, you should still take the course because Platt's lectures pertain to everyday life.
Many people take this class because it is easy; I think "ridiculously lax" is a more appropriate term.  You probably won't remember anything you learned after taking this course. The readings are boring and this class will become "an annoying pest."  Not recommended.
It's nice having take-home midterms, but they were generally kind of a big time commitment.  Definitely go to sections, at least to learn about how to read a political science article.  I had never done that before, so it was useful to learn the important facets of an article without reading every single word - which is what I was doing and it was taking forever so I got really behind on the reading.
I genuinely enjoyed the class - one of my top two at Harvard so far.  It will really challenge your assumptions about Congress and the way it works. Professor Platt is a really fun lecturer, and even though there are a lot of readings, most of them are interesting and worth reading anyway.
Do all of the readings and go to lecture or else tests will be impossible.
Pretty manageable class, the lectures were fun but not necessary to attend. The exams this year were much more tedious than last years
there are only 4 take home exams but they were a bit tougher than previous years apparently. looks like they are trying to make it a little more difficult, but still not that much work for the whole semester.
Even if you stay on top of the material, you'll be overwhelmed by the exams.
This is a fantastic course that enables students to develop a thorough knowledge of the United States' Congress. However, this course is a lot of hard work.
Think very carefully before taking this course.  The exams were far more complex than anything presented in lecture - and you find yourself very frustrated.
take it, it stimulates interest.
It is definitely what you make of it. If you keep up with the reading and attend sections, it's a very useful course. Otherwise, you might not get anything out of it.
THIS CLASS IS NOT EASY, and be prepared to have no idea how to do the exam when you see it.
don't take this course
Make sure you go to lecture and prepare to learn alot about political spectrums
Do not take this class. This class takes itself way too seriously. It was pubbed as an "easy A", a way for me to take 5 classes. No. It was not. It has ridiculously hard take-home exams that have nothing to do with lectures (not helped by the fact that lecture slides are useless). When you go to section it's pointless, and the feedback they give you on your papers are next to useless. Only good thing about the class? You only have to stress about it 4 times a semester. But those 4 times you wonder what in the world you're doing there, because you may have learned some stuff about Congress, but whatever you learned has done nothing to prepare you for exams. They throw at you situations you haven't encountered before in such a way that you have to make assumptions about what you should do in a certain situation (not just that you need to think critically, no. Imagine being asked the definition of a word, but you can't find it online. It has Germanic roots but you only were taught Latin ones. And you need to use the definition of the word to answer the question. So you have to assume it means something, and go from there. Oh, you got it wrong? Sucks for you.
The exams were absurdly difficult. The questions were vague, you were not allowed to ask for help b/c it was a take-home exam, and the questions tested how well you could understand what the professor was asking, not how well you understood the material.
the exams are unfair and you will only understand the material if you get a good TF, which i did not. plus, sections are optional - so if you go to section expecting to learn, it is extremely disappointing when your TF sucks
class is almost as chaotic as congress itself
The exams pretty much ask you to find a specific line in some of the readings or remember a specific thing that the Professor said in lecture, which can be kinda tedious. Not terribly well taught.
Not as easy as in the past, still not very hard though.  It's actually somewhat interesting, and Platt is a great lecturer.
This course was easy in the past -- it became harder this year. Exam questions were intentionally vague and open to different interpretations, so as to trick people into misreading the question and giving a wrong answer. Platt also is extremely unresponsive to emails with any type of question, so don't look to him to clear up the ambiguity on the exams. Lectures are funny and short, and section isn't mandatory, but if you don't do the readings and attend lectures this course will be very rough.
Section needs to be streamlined and made mandatory. My TF, Eliza, went through the readings each week one by one and helped us answer generic questions that she thought were important. Other TFs (after going to make-up sections) did not do such. Lectures can be hit or miss, but I liked them on the whole. The exams are fair and straightforward. TAKE THIS CLASS!!
I would not recommend this class to anyone. I took this class after reading reviews from previous years, and it seems as though the class was changed some. Here are my main complaints about this course.1) Lectures: Lectures often did not go for the full period of time, and the lecture slides are absolutely horrible. The professor clearly spends more time searching the internet for funny pictures and video slides to complement the absolutely minimal amount of real information his slides convey than in thinking about how to make his course good.2) Take home exams: The only grades in this class come from 4 take home exams. In past years, I believe he gave a week for these exams. This year he gave a weekend for each exam. This was incredibly difficult to do, especially when the libraries close at 10pm every weekend. Additionally, the tests were convoluted and difficult. The questions usually required going back through many dense, boring readings to find the exact section that the professor was referring to when he wrote his questions. Additionally, the TFs know nothing about the content of the exam until after it comes out and, very frequently, they are confused about what exactly the professor meant by a certain question. For our final exam, even though I had worked on it for a few hours every day in the time that he gave us, I pulled an all nighter the last night because I was having so much trouble figuring out the exam questions. The morning that the exam was due, I went to my TFs office hours. At those office hours were about 15 kids, some of whom were not even in my TFs section. Almost all of them had been awake the entire night, and none of us could figure out what an entire question (worth 20% of the grade) was asking. On top of this, one of the questions asked us about a term that had never been defined in any of our readings and had not been properly defined in class, so the TF had to give us a definition to use for the question. Also, that same morning (the final morning before the final assignment for the entire class was due), the head professor sent out an email stating that he needed to cancel his office hours and that he would be back on track the following week. Which is absolutely ridiculous considering the course would be over by that point in time. 3) The lack of coordination between TFs and the professor: Unlike in an incredible course I took this semester, the TFs in this class and the professor did not ever seem to coordinate with each other. The TFs never knew what the exam was going to be about. My TF clearly did not like the class. He was a great TF in the sense that he did his best to help us through the tough exams and summarized the readings for us, but he thought the readings were incredibly boring and often recommended much better readings and articles if we genuinely had an interest in Congress. 4) Grading: this one is mainly a warning. If you take this class, do not ever send your exam to be regraded by the head professor. Although it is an option if you do not agree with your TFs grading, your grade will almost inevitably drop by over 20 points if you do this. Although I never made that mistake, I heard of a few people who did. This is partially because the TFs and Professor Platt do not coordinate, so what the professor wants is often very specific and usually not at all like the answers provided by students. Luckily the TFs are much more lenient in their grading and in giving partial credit, because it is very difficult to understand exactly what the professor was looking for in a certain answer.Overall, I thought this class was absolutely terrible. I came into this class with a genuine interest in Congress and I hated this class. If you really want to learn about Congress, read newspapers, watch C-SPAN, but DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.
