If you want to be a part of a vigilante consumer protection group, take this class!
This class is great and not too high workload. It changes how you would look at the world as well as how you approach problems/solutions. Prof Sweeney and Sean know a great deal and have real-world experience which allows you to get a real grasp of what is and isn't possible/ what has already been done.
This class is really cool. You really learn how to conduct research and to work beyond what you thought you were capable of. You should probably have more of a background in CS and Stat than the class recommends when it says no prerequisites.
The course looks at some interesting cases of problems with privacy on the Internet. However, everything is presented very strongly in favor of the privacy advocate viewpoint with little or no consideration given to other concerns (like economic efficiency, the value consumers get when information is collected about them, etc.) In addition, Professor Sweeney focuses much of the class on her own research, which sometimes means that we looked at projects she's worked on in the past which are no longer as relevant as they used to be.
The course has a rather firm preconceived idea about what "saving the world" might mean (the realms of US consumer protection) and who has the authority to use potentially questionable tools to do so (benevolent Harvard student). However, Professor Sweeney is among the most open instructors I've encountered and will listen and thoughtfully respond to interventions to either of those premises.
This class is incredibly unstructured and the leadership is beyond poor. Professor Sweeney doesn't know what she's talking about (her lectures are often factually incorrect and outdated), and most kids go through the class without learning a single thing. If you want an incredibly easy A without doing any work, take this class.
Definitely a unique experience--it's a class unlike any I've taken at Harvard. Professor Sweeney is great and knows everything there is to know. The workload is light, so it's a great way to balance your other classes.
Fantastic class, Professor Sweeney is amazing. The one problem with this class is that we get no feedback on anything. I have no idea how the final projects are being read/graded, or how I'm being evaluated for a final grade.
A very cool class to take if you are interested in the effects/consequences of publicly available data. As a CS concentrator, many of my projects were technical and required coding, but there were a bunch of non-CS concentrators who had no computer science background who were able to do equally cool if not cooler projects that focused on less technical aspects of a problem. It is a very light workload, but you get a lot of bang for your buck in that you get a lot of cool exposure to different types of datasets and policy problems. Professor Sweeney is also a really cool person to get to know!
This class is the discussion class you never had in your undergraduate career. The professor is brilliant and a leader in her field, and the class is full of people ready to challenge you and help you improve in tangible ways. Largely led by class discussion and motivated by student interest, this class will keep you engaged and help you find ways to expand your intelligence and perspective.
This is a great class that is a lot of fun.  I looked forward to it each week.  It is unconventional in that it was a small setting involving collaboration, free-form discussion, and real-world problem solving.  Professor Sweeney is very smart with a lot of real world experience.  Class was a lot of fun.
The Professor is great and brings a lot to the table due to her tremendous real-world experience. It's a very hands-on, applied, discussion-oriented course
Prof Sweeney is very engaging, and the topics are typically very interesting.  The course is not difficult but I think you will learn a decent bit about data science.  I recommend tackling reasonably tough projects so that you maximize your own learning- the course is very flexible, but that also means the assignments are what you choose to make of them.  Learn something new and experiment with new software in getting your projects done.
This is a wonderful class for people who want to try their hand at a data science in a relaxed setting. It's easy, with only a few small assignments throughout the year, but it will definitely give you a chance to create some cool projects using data. However, Professor Sweeney may be taking a leave of absence, so tread carefully.
This is a really fun course and Professor Sweeney is a great professor. I would highly recommend taking this class if you like working on real problems rather than pointless problem sets.
Professor Sweeney is a wonderful and fascinating person, with incredibly interdisciplinary interests. Really take advantage of her office hours! The course was very unstructured and sudden changes in schedule (due to her teaching 3 classes...) could occur, but the rest of the course was what you make of it. (She'll be on leave for the next semester at least, but if possible in the future, I highly recommend taking a class with her and getting to know her.)
Professor Sweeney is awesome! She really cares about her students and makes herself very available for office hours and random chat. This course also gives you a lot of latitude to pursue projects of your own interests. The more effort you put in, the more you get out of it.
I'm a CS concentrator. I'm used to programming algorithms and learning theories. This is partially a CS class, but in a different way. It will honestly change how you view the applications of programming. You get to approach protest data in interesting ways. Prepare to discuss how tech can work with law surveillance. Research papers by the end of this will be piece of cake to you. The final project is the best and Sweeney is always easily accessible. There was little feedback during the semester since she was teaching 3 courses without help from TF. However, this doesn't seem like it will be the case in the future. Sweeney honestly makes this class amazing: I only went to 3 hours of class a week, 2 hours for this course is time well spent.
This course is useful for those who want an introduction to the legal and political challenges presented by new technologies, particularly for those who have limited awareness of or experience in these challenges. As currently structured, the course is not useful for those who want enriching, thought-provoking discussion on the broader implications of these challenges, or who want to conduct thorough research on a single puzzle or problem. If grad and undergrad sections are taught separately for the next iteration, then the course has potential to be more fulfilling. If not, take at your own risk.
Enroll for this class as a graduate student to listen to innovative undergraduates, and try and combine your academic approaches with other graduate students.
I would absolutely recommend to take this course if the grad section is separate from the undergrad. If not, I would do it if I were somewhat new to this subject material.
Great class! Professor Sweeney is a wonderful teacher, and I found the classwork to be pretty manageable. I would recommend making sure that you have a good group of students to work with each week or at least establish accountability so that the weekly assignments can be completed well. Additionally, make full use of Professor Sweeney's office hours!
You analyze real world problems and actually find solutions! This course is one of the most interesting courses I've ever taken and Latanya is amazing!
This is a gem class for technically-trained students to do some cool things in a chill class setting! Of course non-technical people are definitely welcome as well! The whole idea is using data science to solve problems (mainly by discovering vulnerabilities and biases); the beginning can be a little slow because you are mainly working on one or two of Professor Sweeney's pet projects for a while, but everything's fair game for your final project and there's a lot of fluidity in the class as well!
Very unorganized, but not hard.
It was disorganized, repetitive, and unfocused. I learned a lot about writing scientific papers and about research, and the set up of the class is great, but there needed to be more material and structure.
relatively easy work load for high reward. you work on real, applicable projects that have a chance of being published and actually making an impact all while not being too stressed out about your grades and weekly assignments.
Take this class! All about students driving change.
Great elective for a CS/Stat/AM/Ec concentrator who wants to tackle some interesting questions in a laid-back setting.
Professor Sweeney is very knowledgable about all things privacy and data related. The discussions in class were very interesting and I feel like I learned a lot from my peers's work. I think that this class is disorganized though and the expectations are mismatched between Prof. Sweeney, the teaching staff, and the students. The assignments were not always clear, making for a frustrating experience at times. However, I really do think I learned a lot about some very interesting issues in the public sector.
If you are interested in real world applications of data science, this is the course for you! Keep in mind that in order to have a good final project, you will have to be a little bit creative and take a lot of initiative, but it will be worth it! Professor Sweeney and the teaching staff put in a lot of time to make the course worthwhile.
Very interesting course. Not too much work during most of the year, but the final project was long. Also, you work in groups almost every week, but the assignments are short. The course exposes you to an interesting way of approaching real-world problems using (mostly) publicly available data and also teaches important aspects of scientific writing. The class can be disorganized, so make sure to be in contact with course staff to narrow down class expectations.
This class can be super interesting at times, but it covers very few topics and can get bogged down in units that don't warrant that much time. There isn't much emphasis placed on methods, so the only skill that you really improve is in research paper writing.
This course requires a strong understanding of data science prior to enrollment-- do not believe what anyone else says; you WILL be at a disadvantage if you take this course without Python background or serious Excel skills. That being said, Latanya is a wonderful woman who is clearly busy doing her own research; as such, the course is poorly structured. Your access to various issues relating to data science, however, is unprecedented and frankly amazing. The class's workload feels like it has mood swings-- some weeks there will be no homework at all; other weeks there will be many hours.
