This is a really important class to take if you're thinking about writing a thesis. Professor Hagopian is really helpful, and the class will help you get a jump start on thinking about how you want to design your research project (especially if it's about case studies).
If you are thinking of writing a thesis in government, this class is a must. In addition to helping you think about some of the fundamental of political science research, it gives you an opportunity to develop your thesis topic and get feedback. Highly recommend this course!
This is a really good introduction into qualitative research methods--if you plan to write a qualitative thesis, I would definitely recommend the class
As it was the first year the course was offered, and the department is actively working to improve the class based off of responses from the Q, I would recommend this class with reservations. You've likely encountered most of the exemplary readings in other Gov courses, but the methods readings can be incredibly dry and boring. Professor Hagopian is great, and is very much willing to work one-on-one with you outside of class. If you want to write a thesis, this is definitely the class for you. If you don't want to or are unsure, I'd stay away.
Absolute must take if you plan on writing a political thesis. Also, the end product is a full-blown research prospectus, so this class is a two for one.
Take this course to prepare you for a good thesis and also if you are interested in graduate school.
Was so incredibly transformative in shaping my thinking about methodologies, research designs, theories and political science in general! I highly, highly recommend aka recommend without reservation to any person, especially junior, who is interested in writing a thesis! It was so instrumental in exposing you to the relevant methodologies, research designs and literature in the field; in helping you make signified progress in developing your prospective thesis; And perhaps most importantly instilling in you the confidence to ultimately write one!
Definitely take this class: it will make you much more prepared for the thesis research as well as for any other research you plan to do for the future. Doing it in sophomore year may also be a great idea. Take it even if you are thinking about doing a quant paper, as it will help you put research methods in a much more well-informed perspective.
If you want to write a qualitative thesis in Gov, this is an incredibly useful course in starting down that path.
Harvard needs more classes like this. It gives you an opportunity to discuss your research interests with other students, and teaches you how to best approach your research problem. If you are thinking about doing a research project or a thesis, this class will help you get there!! Professor Hagopian is one of the most dedicated educators you will find at Harvard, and our TF for this year, Jeffery, puts so much time and effort into helping us, he's not your average TF!! TAKE IT!
If you are thinking of writing a thesis for either Government, Social Studies, or even Sociology, definitely take this course. The teaching staff - Professor Hagopian and TF Jeffrey Javed - will give you and your work plenty of attention and guidance and will really change the way you think about research in the social sciences, leading you to approach your thesis-writing with renewed vigor and a much more rigorous methodological approach. The fact that this class didn't previously exist was a huge deficit in the Government Department at Harvard and it would be a mistake not to take it now that it is - thankfully - offered.
This course will serve you greatly in thinking about and refining your thesis research design and methodology.
IF you are writing a thesis absolutely take this
Professor Hagopian and Jeff are so helpful and engaging! It's definitely a challenging class, but it also changes the way you think about writing your thesis. After you take it, you feel much more prepared than other juniors who haven't taken this class.
This class restructured my understanding of what it means to conduct effective political science research. I learned a lot. Sometimes, just the sheer breadth of the concepts we cover and trying to pin down their purpose and place in your own research goals can feel confusing. But that's part of the reason for this course - to expose you to the many different ways to explore a hypothesis in the social sciences and become a better critic of research. The assignments felt balanced throughout the semester, and were neither overwhelming nor too easy - you're made to confront your own research purposes in small chunks, all of which build up nicely to the final 10-page prospectus. I also particularly appreciated the opportunity for workshopping our research plans at the end of the course. It was extremely helpful to both get friendly feedback on my own work and to hear what other students plan on researching and how. If you're looking to write a thesis that is relevant, defendable, and valuable to your academic field, you'll walk out of this course substantially more enabled to do so.Also, Prof. McClendon is a fountain of knowledge. Regardless of your intended research area, she will be able to piece together a research method that makes sense for your abilities and goals, and she'll direct you towards relevant literature and experts in the field. She's a fantastic resource.
Gov 62 provides great preparation for the thesis writing process - you spend an entire semester thinking about research design, research methodology, common issues in the field, etc. It also helps you appreciate existing writing in the social sciences more critically. Professor McClendon is a very engaging and fun professor and is very accessible outside of class. Gives you a head start on the thesis process without being too much work. Highly recommended!
If you are planning to conduct more qualitatively-based thesis research and haven't had a lot of experience in methodology coursework, you should definitely take this class. It will not only help you get started on your thesis earlier, but also structure your fieldwork for the coming year
This class is for the aspiring serious researcher. It will be very helpful for thesis writers. You should come into the class with an idea for a research project.
great opportunity to work on your thesis! readings can get quite dry but teach important concepts.
This is an amazing introduction to doing government and social science related research. Everyone who is thinking of writing a thesis should take this course.
I'm still unsure what to think of this class. The readings were kind of miserable because there were so much reading every week and the majority of them were so boring. The professor wasn't really the problem. It was just a lackluster class for me.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard. It gave me a great framework for thinking about my thesis and I enjoyed discussions with my classmates!
I'm pretty unique in that I took the course even though I'm not writing a thesis. However, the skills you get from this class are pretty applicable to non-academic research. I walked away from the class with some new knowledge & skills, but people who were writing a thesis got a ton more out of it than I did.
If you are going to write a qualitative thesis you should absolutely take this class.
As a social studies concentrator, I thought this methods class was the most practical, relevant, and useful one. I got new ideas for my thesis research through class discussions and workshops.
Subject matter can be pretty dry, but it's definitely helpful for thesis writers.
Recommended for those who have to write a thesis in gov/social studies
Gov 62 is a very useful class if you are considering writing a thesis using qualitative methods. This year, the class consisted of a 2 hour lecture and 1 hour section. Assignments throughout the semester included 4 exercises, 4 memos, a workshop, and a final prospectus. The teaching staff is fantastic and have office hours available in case you have additional questions or need help ironing out certain aspects of your thesis so far.
It's a good class. The professor is good. The TF is wonderful. However, it is boring and dry material. It is important material, though. And the professor is fair. The grading is straightforward. The class is bland but fair. Take it if you need to get your methods requirement handled.
This course is both fun and engaging, all while preparing you to write a good thesis (or at least have a good idea of what you need to do for one).
This should be a requirement for thesis writers in govit is seriously amazing. I went in not having a clue about different methodological options, the validity of qualitative/quantitative/mixed methods research, or really how to research for a thesis at all. I am leaving feeling well-versed in methods and prepared to write my thesis. Personal dedication is useful for getting through course material, as 100 pgs of reading on historical ethnography is probably only going to be interesting to someone for whom it is relevant. Though not all methods discussed were directly relevant to me, I found the material to be interesting overall as a foundation for embarking on thesis writing. All the writing that you do will be directly related to your thesis, and of you're like me you'll conclude the course with a good chunk of the conceptual/methodological aspects squared away. You will probably also come away with a sizable grant, because potential donors love to see that you are pursing a class that can really tangibly help with research.
lots of assignments but if you're serious about research and thesis it will be worth it. Prof. mcclendon is awesome. kai was great!
If you are going to write a thesis, you really absolutely need to take this course. Social studies concentrators, take this instead of SS40!! Absolutely beyond helpful!
YOU NEED TO TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU'RE WRITING A THESIS. This is by far the best preparation I've had at Harvard to conduct my field work this summer including the Gov 94 classes. It teaches you the theory and methodology as well as pitfalls while also guiding you through the question creation and prospectus process. Anyone who takes this class will be lightyears ahead for doing field work and writing in the fall.
Super helpful, even as a social studies conc
If you have a vague idea for a topic and want to explore ways to investigate it, this may be useful, but if you already have a good idea of what you want to do and how to approach it, a lot of the readings, etc may feel irrelevant
Great teaching staff! Professor Hagopian and Leslie are both two of the best teachers in the department. This is a rather new class, and I think they are still working out some of the kinks. Some of the material felt a little bit common sense. Some of the terms were a little bit harder to grasp.
Thank goodness Gov 62 exists! I truly do not know how I would have developed my research question and methodology for my thesis with out it. Professor Hagopian is brilliant, so hope she continues to teach the class! Leslie, our TF, was awesome and super great to work with. It is an absolute MUST for anyone planning to write a thesis in gov. Even if you think you want to use mainly quantitative methods, from the knowledge I have from friends who took this class's twin gov 61, gov 62 is the better taught/run class. It is without a doubt invaluable to the enhancing the quality of your thesis. Even if you suddenly decide to not write a thesis, you will read works of political science with much, much greater precision and expertise. Also, if you are at all interested in grad school, this is a pretty good preview to what that type of work entails. I think there is no other class in the gov department quite as practical, but also enjoyable, as this one.
If you are planning to write a qualitative thesis and expect it to be one of your strongest achievements while at Harvard, I would highly recommend taking this course. At the very least it gives you a space to begin thinking through your research question and design, way ahead of the game before you have to start writing your thesis. The experience overall will give you a strong foundation for your thesis research.
For anyone seeking a solid methods course to help you find more direction as you prepare for your senior thesis. Each week presents a new methodology and you will have the chance to read and evaluate exemplary works. This is very helpful. The best aspect of this class for me was the individual help that I got on my thesis preparation. The instructors were wonderful and so supportive!I am a social studies concentrator. I opted to take this methods class over Social Studies 40 (and other similar courses). I am so glad I chose this class! I think it gave me the broadest background and really relevant preparation for my senior thesis. It is definitely a great choice for anyone in the social sciences planning to write a thesis!
I definitely recommend this for junior government concentrators who are planning on writing a senior thesis as this course is great prep for the thesis process!
If you are considering writing a qualitative thesis in Gov, TAKE THIS COURSE. I cannot imagine writing a thesis without it. It will teach you the basics of a range of methodologies, help you develop your research and thesis question, and generally make your project more grounded in political science. I am going into my summer research confident that I'm on the right track thanks to Gov 62. The final presentation and prospectus was a great way to thoroughly develop my ideas and see what kinds of preliminary critiques and problems there were.
If you are writing a thesis, take this class (even/especially if you're Social Studies)! I cannot imagine beginning the thesis process without this class. It is focused on teaching you how to do research and what research methods and design you will need to get at the question you're interested. These are things I didn't even know I needed to be aware of but which are so so so important for research. It is also structured to help you develop your specific topic and question for your thesis, which is really helpful in junior spring as you're applying to grants and looking for an adviser. I'm Social Studies and it was immensely helpful, though a lot of the methods are designed for a government researcher so if you know you're going to do more anthro or history then this might not be ideal. I can't stress enough how helpful this course is. Also the final project is to write a prospectus for your thesis, which is what you'll have to do anyway in October so you'll be way ahead of the game.
The class is superb and incredibly important if you're going to write a thesis.  Only take it if you think you want to write a thesis, but if you do, it's incredibly useful.  There is a good deal of work, but it is crucial for preparing you for senior year, and is absolutely worth taking and putting in the time for.
Awesome class, but definitely catered towards Government / Social Studies concentrators who are doing thesis studies. Best to have background in these fields if you want to maximize your experience.
The lectures are dry, however I believe it is a really important course if you are interested in writing a thesis or engaging in research.
If you're planning on writing a qualitative thesis, this course is great for getting some of the groundwork out of the way. The readings can be dull, as is the nature of a methods class, but McClendon breathes a lot of life into the material. Gabe is also a fantastic TF. The workload is extremely reasonable, and every assignment has a clear purpose.
it can definitely be a little dry, so it's in line with the other reviews, but it really does prep you well.
This course is great because it forces you to actually plan out your thesis throughout the semester. Gabe is wonderful and gives great feedback on your project. However, you are ultimately responsible for coming up with the project yourself. This is to say that it's good to come into the course already having a rough idea of your question or the topic area you'd like to look at. Obviously, this isn't a requirement, but you'll have to figure it out before you write your first paper.
Very helpful in terms of forcing you to think about thesis - but also makes you feel like you should already know what you're writing about, which caused me some anxiety and was pretty unproductive. Understandable, because it's hard to come up with methods for a thesis that does not exist, but also maybe a little unrealistic. Overall, McClendon was amazing so it's a real shame that she is leaving. She did a really good job of making incredibly boring content (readings on different qualitative methods) seem approachable and interesting.
This course is a must take for anyone thinking about writing a qualitative gov senior thesis. It provides a broad overview of different research methodologies, helps get the thesis process started, and gives you useful feedback in terms of the future direction of your research project.
If you are considering writing a thesis, definitely take this class. Not only does it keep you thinking about your topic, but it is also very informative. It's also really helpful for you if you realize that writing a thesis isn't for you. Basically, if there is even a chance you will write a thesis, take this class because it will make a huge different.
If you want to write a qualitative social science thesis, you need to take this class.
This is a great course to fulfill your methods requirement and provides great preparation for writing a thesis. The course material is directly related to your thesis and the TF provides really helpful feedback for developing methodology. There is a lot of reading that is dense, however.
This class, with Gabe as the TF, is graded extremely harshly, so be warned! Otherwise a good way to learn about qualitative methods if you want to write a thesis.
This is a good class to take as a Methods requirement.  But I would not recommend to someone who is still unsure what they want to write their thesis on or someone that is not going to write a thesis.
This class is great for helping you think through a thesis topic. You might change your topic or stick with it throughout, but either way you learn a lot about methods and the lectures are interesting and interactive.
This class is difficult but I can't imagine being prepared to write a thesis without it. You will get great personal feedback from the professor and TF, especially if you make an effort to meet with them.
If you want to write a thesis using qualitative research methods at all, take the class. Just do your future self the favor and take it.
While the material itself is fairly dry, you'll come away from the course with a clear gameplan for conducting research, and how to justify the research method you chose. The assignments also really helped me think through the research method I would use for my thesis, and the final assignment is a full 15-page research prospectus, so you know exactly how you will approach the summer by the end.
Honestly, classes like this should be mandatory for all thesis writers. Take this class if you want to get a massive yet gentle jumpstart on your thesis. It was extremely helpful in catalyzing the process and getting feedback.
This is an excellent class if you plan on writing an honors thesis for government or social studies. It will undoubtedly provide you with important tools to have a firm research design. The feedback is great and the readings are very interesting. I certainly recommend this course!
If you are interested in writing a senior thesis using qualitative methods (e.g. interviewing, archival research, etc.), you should definitely take this course. All of the assignments are geared toward your individual research interests, and the prospectus you write at the end of the semester is awesome preparation for summer research and for Gov 99 in the fall. This course offers indispensable tools for potential thesis writers - definitely take it if you're interested in independent research!
This class is extremely lecture-focused but helpful if you know you are writing a qualitative senior thesis. It takes a good amount of preparation for section each week, but it helps a lot in planning out your thesis.
This class was tremendously helpful for figuring out my methodology. I was quite anxious about how I would actually go about doing research for my thesis during the summer, but I'm so glad I took this class and was forced to think about the accuracy and details of my methodology. I'm going into this summer with a far more concrete plan and a prospectus, both of which I would not have had if I hadn't taken this class. I'm a Social Studies concentrator, and I was also considering this class and the Sociology methods class for my methods requirement. However,  I think this class is more helpful to those who are going to write a thesis with a more interdisciplinary methodology rather than just limited to qualitative interviews.
This Course is an amazing prep for any qualitative thesis writer. I would not be ready to move onto thesising this fall without this course.
Great preparation to write a thesis!
Absolutely take this course if you are even thinking about writing a senior thesis in Government, Sociology, or Social Studies. The class walks you through every step of writing a research prospectus for your thesis as well as force you to think about how you will design your research. You will save yourself a lot of pain by taking this course! Professor Hagopian is the kind of professor you know loves teaching undergraduates about political science as well as enjoys passing down the baton of scholarship and research methods from one generation to the next. She also gives amazing feedback on your work. TAKE THIS CLASS!!!
Professor Hagopian and Belen were awesome teachers who cared really deeply about what they were doing. That kind of support and expertise is why people come to Harvard. One of the most useful classes in terms of getting a head start on my thesis. Must take if you're doing a thesis (I'm a social studies thesis and the SS 40 syllabus was very not appealing to me).
If you have a research question and think it will involve a qualitative method, then take this class! This class does a really good job of helping you get ahead of the game and organize your methodology so that you will be ready to go when the summer or fall rolls around to write your thesis.
This course is amazing for anyone who is planning on writing a thesis. As a junior planning to do so, I loved how this course walked me through the research design of my thesis project step by step and gave me feedback on what would be most effective in conducting a stellar senior thesis. However, sometimes the material is a little dry and lectures could have been more engaging. I highly recommend this class for juniors writing a thesis in government, but only recommend it for social studies students who are learning towards a thesis focused on political science.
Its great if you are sure you will be doing a thesis
If you are planning to write a qualitative gov or social studies thesis next year (and especially if you will be doing research in the summer) PLEASE take this class. Professor Hagopian and Belen really do their best to prepare you for the process, and I would not have known how to approach it at all if not for Gov 62.
If you didn't enter the course with a firm thesis topic, no part of this course is really going to help you come up with one. It will only teach you about research methods having already made the assumption that you have settled on a specific research question.
You end up learning more than you think and it's definitely helpful to have had a prospectus written if you're going to be writing your thesis--it forces you to sit down and think about all the things that have been said on your topic before and how you want to actually conduct your research. That being said, I don't think it will be so useful outside of the thesis and thesis-type project world, so just keep that in mind when you think about why you want to take the course.
