This is a very unique class at Harvard College and you will certainly learn a lot about a subject that is not widely taught at the college.
Do the readings, go to lecture, and you'll be fine. The course can get very tricky, there are a few grad students and lawyers taking it so the discussions can get complicated. You should have no problems as long as you do your work.
Students have to be self-motivated, especially because there are no deadlines. They have to be diligent about attending class (b/c it meets for two hours on a Friday), and keeping up with readings.
although the topics seems interesting the two hours lectures are rather dry and I wouldn't recommend this class if you find it hard to focus on 2 hours classes based just on the professor speaking and occasional contributions of a rather uninterested class
It is not the most exciting class out there. If you want an introduction to International Law then it's the way to go, but if you are not passionate about the subject you may find it a little boring.
Long lectures.
This course is not that challenging and can provide an interesting overview of international law. However, if you're looking for a detailed review of instruments of international law, look elsewhere, as the course does not get very specific and suffers from a lack of detail and relative lack of substance.
The class has lots of interesting reading material, but the lectures are long and sometimes seem disconnected from the reading and section discussions.  However, if you really want to learn the basics of international law, I would still say this course is a must.
If you are looking for a survey course take this; I heard the course this year was very different from in previous years and that there will be a new professor in the future so I'm sure the nature of the course will be very different in the future.
this is not your typical law class. it is not dull at all and anyone can take it-even people not interested in concetrating in government! it helps people look at the world through a different lens and understand how relations between countries are maintained
It depends on the section leader a lot, because the professor does not do very much, and grading and feedback is very section based.
A decent introduction to a number of topics in international law. Some students may not find it structured enough.
The workload is not that difficult.  Try to get all the response papers done as soon as possible. Start on the final paper as soon as you can and set deadlines for yourself.
The class is an excellent introduction to international law and provided some of the best discussions I had during my time at Harvard. Take it - you won't regret it!
Whether you believe in the effectiveness of international law or not, this class will force you to reexamine your approach to international law through both theoretical and practical applications. Lecture is interesting and section is very well taught.
Pretty good course.
Interesting, very relevant course, but grading is tough and can be arbitrary.
If you don't know anything about international law you'll learn a lot. Readings are interesting- lecture and section are fun. I had a good time.
Professor Meierhenrich does not put nearly enough effort into teaching this class. His lectures were disorganized and almost entirely uninformative. I learned nothing this semester that I could not have learned in an afternoon on Wikipedia.
The class, although good, was not exactly what I was expecting. This class focused a lot more on theory and subjective questions of effectiveness/morality than it did on the actual law. I would have appreciated a more substantive approach to the topic.
Fantastic class! A must-take for anyone considering international law as a career, or simply interested in international relations.
This is a good course to learn about the development of international law and its applications to modern day. There is a lot of material to cover and though, so it is difficult to explore any one topic in depth.
The subject material of this course is interesting, but I found the course to be annoying logistically. Lectures felt long, and the papers were only given a week in advance without the opportunity to discuss specifics of your argument with your TF
It is easy to completely disengage with the course material if you are not called to the inner circle, which makes it easy to get through but you may not learn very much.
This course covers a broad range of topics related to international law. It focuses on the applicability of international law, and you will learn that there are many nuances in the field. Work-wise, the class is not very difficult. There are three papers required, and you don't technically need to do the readings beyond what you need for your paper. Of course, you'll get more out of the class if you do. Professor Simmons has put a lot of effort into designing the course, and she's a great lecturer.
Fantastic course for anyone with an interest in international relations or considering a career in the law. Definitely accessible to non-government concentrators and it made a great elective. The course covers a broad range of subjects and connects nicely to current events. The senior panel option is a great opportunity to get practice in such a setting and to interact with some leading scholars in the field.
Overall, the lectures were relevant and engaging. There's reading but not an overwhelming amount of it. Definitely worth taking. Also, if you prefer papers over exams, this class is for you.
This was by far one of the best classes I have ever taken. Professor Simmons is a very dedicated and very informative lecturer. Additionally, though she may have had unorthodox methods rarely seen outside of law courses, this year's new method of having a round-table/discussion panel was a large benefit to the class and people within the panel. It forced one to be able to think more critically and apply that week's reading assignments to various scenarios.
A great course if you're interested in international law that doesn't take too much time
Great class, great professor. If you are at all interested or even possibly interested in international law then you should definitely take this class, and you don't have to be a Gov concentrator to get something out of it (although it would definitely help).
A very good overview of international law. I definitely learned a lot from taking this class.
This course is a lot of work but can be rewarding. There are a considerable amount of readings, and it is easy to fall behind. It may be difficult to complete papers given that all three papers were distributed with one week before submission.
This isn't a bad course, but it could have been a lot better. Structure, organisation, and lecture were fine, but the material could be improved. The main problem is that this course didn't really go deep enough into anything, and was ultimately not engaging enough. It could have discussed the theory behind different kinds of international law, or discussed cases, or discussed the effects of the laws being the way they were. But instead it just kind of told us that laws existed (almost like a list). In general, not enough of the material promoted argument and discussion, which made it too easy to disengage. Section, reading, and the papers don't require much of you. This would be a decent fifth course or freshman fall course if you need to find your feet in IR or have a lot else going on, but if you want to put in time and really learn from it, there just aren't enough opportunities to do that.
Professor Simmons is very engaging and an excellent educator: Her lectures are very clear and she is always willing to assist you in her office hours. The course material is interesting and not too difficult to read. Sections are useful for the essay tests.
This is a good course that covers the fundamentals to international law and relations theory. If you are looking for a course that lays a foundation for you in this area, I recommend this course. However, this is not a course for you if you are looking for a course that resembles a law school course.
You should have some background knowledge in IR.
This course covers a wide range of topics in the international field and is extremely useful to use as a framework for understanding current events.
If you already know a fair amount of international law, look elsewhere. Though the course number is in the four digits, this is an introductory course. Readings and lectures complement each other nicely, and Professor Simmons as well as the TFs are really helpful and invested in our success.
International Law with Professor Simmons was a fantastic experience. I've learned so much in this course, and I've had a lot of fun doing so. Lecture is never boring, and sections are always very enjoyable. Professor Simmons has done a very interesting thing with lecture this semester by bringing in inner circle discussions; it's really facilitated discussions and participation. This class is definitely a rare gem within the Harvard course catalog. If you get the chance, please do give it a try!
This class went beyond my expectations and is definitely a class that brings together tough concepts in such an interesting manner. If you would like to take a super cool class that is not very difficult and one of the funnest section ever, definitely this one.
You'll gain an understanding of International Law, but also a better understanding of international politics, current events, and diplomacy.
This is a great introductory course for anyone with an interest in international relations. Beth Simmons is a very knowledgeable, approachable, and innovative professor.
Not much substantive knowledge, dominated by gov concentrators, kind of disorganized and unstructured but Boram was great and tied the class together for me. There is no incentive to go to class or do the readings other than for section, but section was pretty interesting. I appreciate that there is no testable material.
Prof. Simmons made this class very enjoyable with her engaging lectures. There was a fair amount of reading involved, and not doing the reading will hurt when it comes time to complete the papers.
This is a really good class. Readings are very manageable and not necessary to do every week, but I would recommend keeping up with them because they're necessary to do well on the essays (so don't try to get them all done the week an essay is due). The essay questions can be difficult and require a lot of thought; don't underestimate the time they will take. The teaching staff really expects a high level of creativity and wants you to incorporate ideas from many of the readings in your writing. Even though they're difficult questions, they are engaging and can be fun to think about. The professor is great and really tries to engage with students. Go to her office hours! She's really nice and eager to hear feedback about the class and your own thoughts about whatever topics gone over in class. My TF, Boram, was also really nice and really helpful in terms of answering questions and helping think through the essay questions. Overall, this is a very interesting class and I'd recommend it.
Beth Simmons is a fantastic professor. Course material is interesting and explained very well in lecture, with sections devoted to debates and discussions. Definitely a class I would recommend for anyone interested in international relations.
Relatively easy course, but can be incredibly dull at times. There isn't a lot of structure to the course and its easy to just fall into a lull and stop preparing.
Good introduction to international law but nothing more than that.
This course offers a great introduction to the issues that exist in international law and how law may not be the best solution to these problems. Professor Simmons is a great lecturer, but when it's your turn for the inner circle, make sure to do all the reading ahead of time.
LOVED this class. There was a lot of reading, but it was all very pertinent and relevant to class and to the essays. Simmons was fantastic and I felt that the course was very well organized and engaging.
I would wait until you're a junior or senior to take this class as it is very challenging.
This is your standard Gov course but Professor Simmons is highly knowledgeable about the field that is becoming more and more pertinent in understanding world politics.
The lectures can be a lot to take in, but if you're interested in international law, this class is both fairly graded and very worthwhile. Don't expect the material to all be super glamorous!
Good classes that fulfill the Gov IR requirement are far and few between, but this class is a gem! Professor Simmons is a leader in her field and presents the content engagingly and effectively.
If you are interested in the role international law plays in a diverse set of areas, take this class. Professor Simmons is a great lecturer and the material is interesting. Section ranges from boring and repetitive to really fun; usually they try to incorporate activities and debates, which make up the best sections (but sometimes require additional readings so beware) but it did turn into mini-lecture sometimes (especially at the beginning of the year). Do the readings! This is the type of class where you aren't regularly accountable for them (section brings in a lot of extra readings), so missing a few isn't that bad, but if you miss a lot writing the final paper will be very difficult.
Professor Simmons is a really wonderful teacher. She is very passionate about her area of expertise and really tries to generate enthusiasm in her students. Although I didn't like the class that much, I think that if a student is proactive and really make the most of reading Professor Simmon's book and engaging her, they could benefit greatly.
Not much work, good lectures, Professor is excellent. You learn a lot about the international system. I wish it had been more contextual instead of factual, though...ultimately getting around to the question of 'why' international law matters and 'how' it is both working and constrained. This class was much more about the mechanics of law instead. But it was interesting and you really don't need any background knowledge.
The course is really interesting, and Professor Simmons is wonderful! An important point to note is that the class is not really about laws, but about the connection of law and politics in international relations.
This course is great for having an interesting overview of international law with guest speakers who make the material applicable. The readings aren't too helpful, but the lectures are pretty interesting.
A great class for the IR subfield. The readings can be a bit dry, but lectures are fascinating and Professor Simmons does a great job of keeping students engaged.
One of the most well-structured courses at Harvard, particularly in government. Broad enough for freshman, sophisticated enough for senior concentrators, and room for specialization for everyone in between. Professor Simmons does an amazing job tailoring this course to current events and bringing in engaging experts, plus her energy will get you excited about trade regulations at 10am. Simulations in section will teach you a lot. Great class, and great foundation from which you can just understand current events better or find a compelling subject for a senior thesis.
Really wonderful course! Beth Simmons is a fantastic lecturer and very nice/approachable. The assignments were manageable (and interesting to complete) as were the readings. I wouldn't take this course, however, if you aren't interested in international law, as the readings may be dense at times. I would definitely recommend taking this course to anyone else, however. Very interesting and manageable.
This is an amazing course that I wish I had taken earlier in my Harvard career, but it's only offered once every two years so make sure to take it! Prof. Simmons is an amazing professor and she is a leading scholar in this field. The course itself requires a lot of reading, but they're all very interesting so it did not feel too much. The TFs want you to learn in section, and Prof. Simmons cares about your individual participation. Excellent course.
I would really encourage students to stay on top of their weekly readings, and not just cram them all in right before section. It makes lecture a lot more rewarding.
This is a fantastic course that will forever change your perceptions of the intersection of international law and politics.
This class is a must-do for all those interested in international relations. It teaches a unique legal perspective on familiar concepts and case studies, through really interesting lectures and section discussions. The workload is not bad at all. You get out of this course as much as you put in, so only take it if you really are interested in IR/ILaw.
The structure of this course is not conducive to imparting the material of this course. Currently, this is a course that has a subject matter that is likely to be too onerous for someone without a background in international relations theory and some exposure to international law or treaty-making. That said, it is taught as if students without that background can thrive in the course, at what one might imagine is "their level." This class should be a smaller course with a higher barrier to entry. As it stands, it is a fine class to take if you want to get some more exposure to international law and are okay with writing formulaic papers about international legal questions.
Take this course if you're the least bit interested in law and/or international law and want to get an inkling of how things run. Professor Simmons is a great lecturer, and this course is not too hard, and the section and discussion is amazing. Some of the readings may be long, but it is more than worth it.
Hands down one of the best courses I've ever taken at Harvard or anywhere. Beth Simmons is a great lecturer, and is obviously so passionate about the topic (and about teaching it to students). She's always asking for feedback, and she's (more than any professor I've had) very interested in having students participate and engage with the material. The subject matter is also incredible. International law seems irrelevant at times, but Prof. Simmons does a great job of explaining why it's so important (and sometimes, why it's not). The essays were great, section was fun. Honestly, I don't have any bad things to say. Don't fear the inner circle! It's very fun, and gets people excited about the material (even if it seems like a drag at first). The course is also very fair in terms of work. It's super easy, but getting a good grade is not impossible.
I can't stress enough how much I loved this course. I'd never taken a class in the gov department before when I took this, but I didn't feel like that put me at a disadvantage at all. Sections are simulations designed to debate real-world issues, which was an awesome format. Overall, this course provided huge insight into the current landscape of international relations, something I think every informed global citizen should know.
This is a great introduction to understanding how international law influences international relations. The section component, which centers on having formal debates, could be improved to have more opportunities for genuine discussion. But this is nonetheless a very strong course.
An excellent class with excellent staff. Be sure to attend the lectures.
This class provides a comprehensive overview of the most important issues concerning the international legal regime. It leaves out a lot, but the course is well-taught and fairly painless.
Do not take this class if you value your free time or your sanity.
make sure you're interested in the subject matter
This is an interesting and engaging class. For people that don't know much about international relations you will find it more difficult but that was the situation that I was in and I thought I got the added benefit of learning from my peers as well as the lectures, sections, and readings.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading. Go to all of the lectures--Beth Simmons makes every one worth it. In fact, the guest lecturers are much less unreliable. Your lecture experience will be vastly more valuable if you complete the required readings prior to the lecture.
Interesting topic, yet the lectures are dry and simplistic.
Best class I took this semester. Among the best 5 classes I've taken in 3 1/2 years.
Beth Simmons is engaging and energetic, her lectures are interesting and she is a great dresser. I want to be as cool as her when I am her age. Also, her voice is awesome and carries throughout the lecture hall.
If you are really into international politics do it, if you are into law, do not necessarily take it.
That is a good intro international law class taught by a dedicated professor and some great TF's (at least this year).  The sections are interesting with several simulated debates.  There is a ton of reading and papers are challenging.
You learn a lot about many aspects of international law.
If you need to fulfill a requirement, this is an easy way to do that, but definitely not a fun way. If you are hoping this will be a fun elective, it won't.
this is a very interesting and comprehensive course on international law and its effect on international relations. it is NOT a pre-law class though, but a political science one, even though the exposure to legal cases is varied and interesting. however, if you already know quite a bit about human rights, international relations, and international organizations this course may be a little too basic
Beth Simmons is a good lecturer and the material is interesting, but lectures and sections are not well-integrated and unless they change this about the course, it will remain poorly-organized.
Take it.  It's interesting, not a huge amount of work, and you are certainly not required to do all the reading to succeed.
There is a very heavy reading load but the ideas contained in the readings are extremely interesting.  Professor Simmons' lectures are truly fantastic and I enjoyed them immensely.  The sections create a much greater understanding of information learned in lecture.  All in all, this is one of the best courses I have taken.
You don't have to go to lecture.
Go to all lectures and you'll be set.
Make sure you actually like the academic law aspect of international relations.
Excellent choice.
The material and professor are excellent, but be prepared for a lot of reading, difficult essays, and bad TFs.
The course is a great introduction to the range of topics in international law and international relations, with considerable depth in the topics that use case studies. It is great for anyone considering further coursework or writing a thesis in the area of international relations.
The lecture readings are very relevant to lecture discussion, and I benefited considerably more from lectures where I completed readings ahead of time rather than after the fact.  Delaying readings is tempting when it can be done to some extent without jeopardizing one's grade, but those who do it short-change themselves.
Delivers what is promises - an interesting survey of international law's history, present and future.
There are no midterms or finals, for those who prefer writing papers.
This is a good introduction to the growing field of public international law.
it's pretty boring.
you need to be really interested in the LAW aspect of international relations...obviously.
don't take pass/fail!!! it is easy and you will do fine!
a lot of reading
This is a great class that provides a solid introduction to international law.  If the subject matter itself does not interest you, you might get bored with the class, because there is nothing about the course structure or quality that would just be fascinating for a general audience...and some of the readings are dry.  But if IL interests you this class will definitely enhance that interest.  The workload is perfect.
Very interesting class. Be sure to keep up with the readings and to write on what you're interested in, but lectures are not extremely important and always relevant to the material learned.
This is a great class with a great professor.
interesting and broad intro to international law, and its intersections with various international-relations (politics, economics) topics
Very boring lectures, content isn't exactly exciting, no link between lecture material and section discussion content.
The course is fairly technical, empirical, and rational. It does not address broader issues in sufficient depth, and it is difficult to do well in the course. It does, however, provide sufficient overview of international law and the study of it.
It was alright.  Good topics generally.  Guest lectures weren't so great.  Only some readings were good.
This course is a great way to fulfill the international relations requirement for government concentrators, and also a great elective for students looking for another interesting course and a way to learn more about international relations.
Difficult paper assignments.. harsh grading... not much feedback. It's a big class and so you are graded against a wide span of people, some of whom are really really good. Beth Simmons is great... but her office hours are crowded. TFs don't provide much feedback and don't hold office hours. Be prepared for the paper prompts. They are needlessly tough.
This class is really good. Beth Simmons is fantastic and the grading of papers is very fair. It's a standard, low-stress Gov class if you need the concentration credit. Take it if you can!
This class is a great way to fill the IR requirement for government concentrators. Lecture can be a bit dry at times but section is awesome and you will learn so much about international law through writing the essays. Prof. Simmons is one of the best in her field and the material is fascinating though sometimes the details of it can be a bit much.
If you already like international relations, you might really enjoy it. I wouldn't take it as an intro course
Take this class! First of all, the material is a great overview of international law. Secondly, Beth Simmons is a GREAT lecturer and professor. I would highly recommend it. Go to lecture!! They're so good and they're key for getting the information you need for papers etc. I also found the assignments great - they're straightforward, thought provoking and don't feel like busy work at all. TAKE THIS CLASS.
More international theory that international affairs, just want to clarify in case that's what you're looking for (like I was). THe theory gets really interesting though and the readings are worth your time if you want to know the mechanisms of international law.
do the response papers early. It's a bit of busy work with the simulations and responses but I ended up liking the class overall
This is a great class that applies the theories of international law to real world situations. It is definitely not a law class but rather a government class that focuses on the role of legal institutions in international relations. I highly recommend it for anyone interested in international law or international politics. The workload isn't that hard (only 3 papers and no final) and the reading is totally manageable (you definitely don't have to do most of it). Also, if Cosette is still around next year, try to get her as a TF.
You learn so much from this class!
It's an interesting class that challenges you on the papers. But its worth it.
Good class. Lecture is really boring, but sections are great. There are interesting simulations and only three papers. Workload is awesome.
First off, Professor Beth Simmons is the best Professor at Harvard College.Now, while that may be seen as hyperbole,  I think you have to experience her teaching for yourself. She is one of the few Professors at Harvard who actually cares for her students and actually enjoys *teaching* and educating. She's very engaged in her student's learning process and if you establish a relationship with her, she'll remember you on a first name basis. It was an honor to take this class, simply because of her. She is an awesome educator.
This class gives you a good introduction to international law, but remember that it is about international law, not foreign policy. Also, although Professor Simmons is obviously very knowledgeable about international law, the lectures were not always very engaging because it just felt like we were being talked to. Easy to zone out.
Amazing class that teaches you about international law, its history, many examples you should be aware of, and most importantly, how it has been applied so far. This course will expand your mind!
I really enjoyed this class and I'm not a pre-law kid at all, it's a good way to fulfill the gov IR requirement.
Interesting lectures and readings, and even really cool paper topics. The assignments offer a lot of choice, which is great because you can really narrow in on your interests. I recommend this class whole-heartedly - Prof. Simmons gave the best lectures yet throughout my entire Harvard career!
Good course if you want something easy and you can probably learn a lot if you put the effort it, but the course doesn't really incentive putting much effort it.
Great Course for anyone interested in international relations! Engaging lectures and relevant material.
The lectures are pretty great and the subject material is as interesting as you are interested in international law. The sections are really great if you put in the work for them. It's honestly the type of class where you get out of it what you put in.
A lot of last year's comments said that this course could be boring, dry  and unmanageable at times due to the readings, but I disagree. All of the readings were FASCINATING, though it might be challenging to get ALL the reading done, what with 2 sets of readings for the lectures each week and then an additional set for section, but not too unlike other social science classes. There is a TON of human rights stuff, which I loved, and the paper topics were always current and relevent, so you felt like you were actually contributing to discourse on significant, controversial world events. The lecture were phenomenal, prof Beth Simmons is a total beast and kept you engaged at all times. Lectures EXTREMELY well structured and organized, along with the lecture slides. If Rob Schub is still TF-ing the class, GO FOR HIM, he is phenomenal, laidback, approachable and makes himself super available for help on papers and on the course in general. Feedback he gives is great.
It's really interesting especially if you like international relations/law.
spend a good amount of time on the papers
Generally, this is a good course (prof. Simmons is fantastic), but it has some serious flaws. Make sure you're prepared to invest the time to do the readings out of interest alone, because you're often not required to have done them (Not a good thing, just makes the course really disconnected if you don't, but doesn't hurt your grade).
Lectures are a bit dry but the content is interesting, particularly the case studies. The real strength of this course is section--I had a great TF and really liked the simulations we did. I thought the course was pretty eye-opening and challenged a lot of my views.
Readings are fairly interesting, case studies and stimulations are relevant to current events and the staff is engaging.  Professor Simmons can be dry at times, but the substance is most certainly there.  Nice, broad class in the realm of international relations.
A great way to expose yourself to the realm of international politics and law.
This class is very interesting, especially if you are interested in international law! I did not think I would enjoy the human rights portion, but it was actually my favorite part of the class. Be prepared for a fair amount of work though. There are about 100 pages of reading per lecture, and additional reading for section. However, the lecture readings are not necessary until the essays, so you can put it off and only read what is necessary. In hindsight though, I wish I had done more of the readings. The worst part of the class is the simulations, which happen about 4 times a semester. They require a lot of extra work and are not that interesting. Also, Professor Simmons does not pay attention to national events, such as elections. We had an essay due the day after one of the presidential debates and an essay due the day after the presidential election, which sucked.
If you're hesitant about your International Relations credit, this is definitely a great course for you. It provides a great introduction into the topic and write on topics you're most comfortable with, so you won't be lost if this area isn't one of your strengths.
Good course if you like the subject matter, but dry lectures and rough essays were a pain in the butt.Also, someone should tell Prof. Simmons about "Harvard time," because apparently she just doesn't believe in it.
The content is interesting, and the lectures are engaging.
this is a great class if you want to understand how international law intersects with international relations. Prof. Simmons is one of the very best in her field  it shows when she teaches.
Professor Beth Simmons has completely revolutionized international law and it is amazing to learn from her. Sections were also really great in that it was a chance to ground your thought and apply the theories and discussions from lecture. Although it does have a lot of reading, both for section and lecture, and I'd recommend having some knowledge on international legal documents and history, this is a great class to learn about international law and foreign relations.
This is a really interesting class and really applicable to any international situation. As someone interested in public global health and human rights, I found this class to be really great in exploring the major players in intl law, theory behind compliance and enforcement mechanisms, etc.
Professor Simmons is one of the best and most engaging professors in the Government department. To be honest, I did not have high expectations for the class because I was not interested in the topic initially, but now find it to be fascinating and an extremely relevant topic of study.
Loved it! interesting material!
This course is a great way to get exposure to international law, including its benefits and downfalls. Definitely the best way to fulfill the international relations requirement for gov concentrators, and still a class people should take if interested in the subject matter. Workload all depends on the section and the students in it, but it is all worth it and you get so much more out of the class than you would ever think. Every week, I found myself surprised at all of the interesting, useful and practical information I was learning about international law. Great class!
Interesting lectures, engaging sections, manageable workload
lectures are well-organized but can be a little dry unless you're interested in the topic. section is easily the best part of the class, so try to get into cosette's section if you can
you don't need to go to lecture ever because the only grades that matter are lecture and section
Excellent! Paper-based class.  Sections are excellent.  Do the section reading.
If you're truly interesting in international law this is a great introductory course, but if you enjoy law (not particularly international law) I would hesitate on taking this course.
This is a straightforward and enjoyable class. If you are hoping to get a good foundational introduction to international law, that is what you will get. In general, this is the type of class that you get out what you put in.
This is a great class. Professor Simmons is an amazing lecturer and the sections are engaging and fun.
This is a great course for surveying different types of international law and international legal theory and Simmons is both an enthusiastic professor and a prolific contributor to the field. The readings are a bit dense but covered pretty well in lecture - definitely do the separate section readings fully.
Good way to require IR for GOV but I wouldn't take as an elective
Really interesting class with a great Professor. Even if you're not interested in law (school), I'd highly recommend it if you're interested in international relations. Great course if you're a junior planning to write a thesis in international relations
It's a decent course. No more, no less.
If you are at interested in law, in the relations between states, and in the ways in which international law helps to define and shape those relations, then I greatly encourage you to take this course. It is a fantastic introduction to the topic of international law and will certainly leave a lasting mark on my undergraduate career.
Beth Simmons' engaging lectures and dynamic presentation style, and the interactive sections (in which we held simulations on major, often current, IR issues) made for an excellent course.
If you are even the least bit interested in law or international relations, this is a great course to take where you will gain a whole lot of knowledge.
If you're interested in international law, or even just international relations, this is a great class to take. The sections are amazing, and while some of the lectures can be dry, the grading structure really allows you to manage your schedule well. For example, there is no midterm or final exam. The most important chunk of your grade comes from three papers, before which you are given several prompts. So, you can focus on the material you know well and enjoy the most. You don't need to memorize a bunch of terms or know the material covered in each lecture in detail. Overall, a great course that I would recommend to others!
Not too much of time commitment.
Reading is definitely manageable and the sections are a lot of fun! The extra reading for sections can occasionally be annoying, but its definitely worth doing, and it's usually extremely interesting. Lectures are helpful for the papers, and the teaching staff is terrific and really helpful, both in and out of class. Papers are fairly graded, so it's a challenge but not impossible to answer them carefully. Highly recommend Professor Simmons. She's brilliant and very personable! Also, juniors get the option of drafting their thesis research prospectus instead of writing the final, which is a great help! My favorite class this semester.
Definitely attend lecture because it provides a great, comprehensive grounding for the course as a whole. Professor Simmons is a great lecturer and knows how to keep things interesting.
essays were challenging, and graded rather harshly, but a good course if you are interested in international law
It's one of the best courses I've taken in terms of how section is structured.  However, I think only students who have a strong interest in thinking theoretically about international law would enjoy it - it's not for everyone.
This is a great course, particularly for gov concentrators looking for an IR class. The topics are interesting and relevant, and while lectures can be a bit cut and dry, the assignments are very reasonable, interesting, and can even be fun to complete. The teaching staff is also fantastic.
The essay topics are extremely difficult, and out of touch with how simple the lectures and readings are. The section component, however, is really intriguing.
Highly recommend if one is interested in the international scene. Whole course asks the question - does international law even matter? One would think yes, it sets standards, but also no because nobody talks about what international law prevents one from doing. This really goes into specific cases of how international law has helped or hurt as well as broad understandings of what international law is supposed to try to achieve.
One of the best government classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Simmons is amazing and the TF's are brilliant.
Lectures are amazing but sections are awful. Despite Mai being a great TF the forced course-wide simulations during section were both tedious and juvenile. The paper topics were awful as well. They were very unclear and impossible to answer within the page limits.
TAKE THIS! you won't regret it. everyone loves this class.
Lectures aren't amazing, but your section can make the course worth it.
Professor Simmons is a major boss in her field. She is the expert on international human rights law and bilateral treaties. The section part of the course requires a little bit more preparation than normal government classes, but are that much more interactive and engaging.
Overall, I thought this was a great class. The topics were really interesting, and the workload was very manageable. My only complaint is that a lot of the lectures seemed disconnected; there weren't many overarching themes that tied things together, so it wasn't always clear what was and wasn't important.
This class is wonderful if you have a keen interest in international law and how it can best be applied to current situations; the work is very appropriate for the course materials, and the TFs are very helpful.
Be extremely careful about answering all parts of the essay prompts. It sounds straightforward, but because the prompts are so detailed it's easy to miss a question if you're not looking too closely. Other than that, you will learn a lot about international law in the widest context possible.
It's remarkable how little I managed to learn in International Law (while getting an A!). The material was pretty simplistic and not well developed in the class. At the same time, all the assignments required virtually zero understanding of the course content, and were essentially exercises in applied common sense. If you're in to thatgreat. If you'd like to gain something from your courses, look elsewhere.
One of the best you'll take at Harvard!
This course can be very rewarding, but you have to make sure that you have the time to devote to it. Otherwise, it can become very frustrating and dense due to the extent of the reading required of the student.
I liked Professor Simmons' teaching style--she is really articulate and incorporates readings in her lecture. I always first skimmed the readings for that lecture, paid attention to the reading she mentioned in lecture, and then went back to read the articles more in detail. This can save a lot of time. She also uses powerpoint, which is really helpful for notes-taking. My TF Sparsha is also very amazing. She always brought cookies and Starbucks to sections, and promoted the casual environment in which we could freely express our opinions. You should definitely go to TF's office hours, especially before papers are due.
I learned a lot.  It's great!
Professor Simmons literally wrote the book on International Law - and she's a great lecturer! The section leaders are all awesome too. Not much work, learn a lot, great class overall.
The subject material in this course is very engaging, but the assignments and papers may be less so.
Visit with Beth and your TF prior to writing papers, it really makes things a lot easier.
Keep up with the readings! Discussion section readings are separate from the lecture readings and are very interesting.
Great class if you are willing to put in the time.
This is an excellent class to have an overview of IR theories in relation to International Law.
The students who take it are truly passionate about the material and that shows in the quality of section. This is a great class that goes into depth without being overly specific to international law--the IR theories have a broad range of application.
Only to people with a legitimate interest in the subject matter.
It was an interesting class if you paid attention, which was not always easy to do.
If you're interested take it, if not give it a miss. The material is very pedantic and dry, and overall not as engrossing as Gov 40.
I recommend this course if Professor Simmons is teaching it
Professor Beth Simmons is a very charismatic and inspirational lecturer. The material is definitely dense and very dry, but she makes it very manageable and engaging, linking it back to real-life examples. And this was one of the few classes where I was actually excited to be at section because of the various simulations that people really got into. The caliber of discussion in section tends to be very high also because the students tend to be juniors/seniors who are pre-law. The sections will never be dull and filled with awkward silences.
Gov 1740 is a great introduction to the various issues covered by international law. It sets up a good foundation, but in order to cover everything, a lot of the issues were covered at a more general level. So this course would be useful to discover what area of international law interests you, and then you can find a course that covers it in greater depth.
Good way to fulfill International Relations requirement for Government concentration.
Beth Simmons is the best. She will make you think about the world in a different perspective. She wil expose you to the intricacies of international law and how they relate to our daily lives. Definitely take this course if you are a Government concentrator, if this course fulfills one of your Concentration requirements, or if you have an elective left over. There are no exams, just three great papers. Feedback is awesome. You will no regret it. On of the top three best courses I have taken at Harvard.
Its interesting and not very challenging. Its a great class to take.
Solid overview of the intersection of international relations and international law. Lecture and section components were very well taught.
International Law is a really interesting course with an extremely light workload.  The lectures are interesting, and it's generally unnecessary to do the readings for lecture.  The section readings are separate, but tend to be short and about interesting current issues.  Make sure you're comfortable writing gov papers though, since they will determine your entire grade!
most of the readings are unnecessary, but lecture is interesting and the material is equally interesting.
good professor, though lectures and material can be a little dry at times. not too reading intensive, but the more you read the more you'll get out of lecture and section.
This is a fantastic class.  Very interesting, not too technical in terms of law (the prof stresses that it is not a law school-type class).
The course has really interesting components and leaves you feeling competent on the subject of international relations.
It's a great class to learn more about international law, but don't expect to have a full understanding of it afterward-like any subject, it is what you make of it.
This course is great.  Fun section, succinct lectures, and fair assignments.
Professor Simmons is a great lecturer- very informative, cohesive and easy to understand.  Essay prompts are difficult but there are only two 5-7 page essays and one 8-10 page. No midterm or final!
This class is one of the best at Harvard -- the professor is engaging, the material's breadth is relevant to undergrad level, and the sections are terrific!
GREAT CLASS to get a foundation for what constitutes international law; it's not a "pre-law" class by any means, but it does help situate yourself in the conversations that take place worldwide about global transnational issues/interactions!
This course is amazing, not only because of the amazing array of sources to use, especially when it comes to section, but also because of the professor and the TFs. Simmons conveys the concepts of the course excellently, and section does not disappoint. TFs are great at monitoring discussions and further explaining concepts that might still be unclear.
its a good/interesting way to get rid of an intl law requirement. i learned a lot
It is a fascinating topic, but it could be taught better. It's also difficult, however, because this realm of international law and international institution-making is still very new and, therefore, not very concrete.
I learned a lot about the international system and the way that the U.S. interacts with it.  The professor is dynamic and my TF (Sparsha Saha) was fantastic.  Sections involved interesting simulations of real international disputes, so it's not the usual section experience where the TF struggles to get students to talk or one student talks the whole time.
Professor Simmons is a great lecturer.  The course wasn't too demanding, had mostly interesting topics, and it's clear that the professor and TFs really care about having a high quality class.
A great class that, aside from teaching you the subject matter, helps you develop the skills of argument.
Make sure you know what you're getting yourself into!  I expected a course that was structured similarly to Constitutional Law, and that's simply not what this class is like.  The material can be very dry, and lectures can, through no fault of the professor, be pretty dull.
Take it!  Beth Simmons is a baller.
Great introduction to the course.
Professor Simmons is one of the most charismatic lecturers within gov department :)
