It's an easy course and you still learn about a lot of really cool things. Basically it is a gem.
Overall, this is a very good class. The material covers an array of subjects related to data, privacy, technology and regulation, and I really enjoyed it. I had essentially no background on the subject, and had not taken any CS courses, but I was able to do well. One of the best parts of this course is Professor Sweeney, who is truly phenomenal. Her experiences and insights are unmatched (she was the Chief Technology Officer of the FTC), and she is truly a leader in the field of data, privacy, and politics. Sean (the TF) is also really great, and gave great feedback. There are few readings, and no exams, but rather, the course is structured around 6 units, with each covering a different topic. For each, you'll work with a team of 3-5 people on a group report and present in class. You'll also have several individual assignments as well. The course concludes with a final project that is very open ended, but provides the chance to do original research on a topic you find interesting. The primary weakness of this course is its tendency to sometimes feel unorganized. We sometimes felt that we didn't understand the expectations for the projects, and feedback was usually delayed by a few weeks. But overall, I'd recommend this class, just understand the weaknesses going into it.
This is a great class- fascinating topics and a great professor. The course structure can be a bit messy at times but Prof. Sweeney is always willing to work it out with students. The topics covered are becoming more and more important and I would recommend this class to anyone, particularly CS or government concentrators.
This is without a doubt the easiest class at Harvard. To that effect, it is utterly useless. Would not recommend unless learning nothing is your objective. Which it could be. You do you.
It was an exciting class that felt very innovative and relevant. Professor Sweeney is fantastic.
Take this course.  Professor Sweeney is extremely knowledgeable and will take you into a world you probably have never seen before.  And once you've seen it, you won't see the world around you the same way ever again.
Tedious work sometimes. A lot of week to week work.
Latanya is absolutely adorable and clearly a leader in her field. She gets really excited about new ideas, projects and thoughts that students share. However, this class needs WAY WAY WAY WAY WAY more organization and structure. There needs to be a cap on enrollment. Assignments and requirements need to be more clearly communicated. The topics need to be better structured. The class has a great professor (albeit disorganized) and POTENTIALLY great subject matter, but neither of these things will come through without concrete organization.
Definitely a fun and easy government class. Professor Sweeney is great.  The entire class is based on projects, so you get to meet a lot of people.
This class as is stands now is too disorganized to take.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Sweeney is such a nice, caring professor and she will go out of her way to help her students. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Although the topic of this course is very interesting, the material is presented in a very unorganized manner, and the course is generally very disorganized. Professor Sweeney is obviously very passionate about what she is teaching, but the lack of structure in the class, along with the bi-weekly group projects, made the course difficult to really delve into.
This class is amazing and will open your eyes to the way that technology is being used.
This class is interesting, but sometimes its just busy work. Its easy, but not always the most compelling.
The students that this course attracts are some of the worst I have seen at Harvard. The course is project based, and I think all of 1% of the class cared at all about putting in the effort. The course is way too large. Take CS105 if you can.
The course topics are relevant and interesting. The class is experimental design and group project oriented, so be prepared to work with many different people, personalities, mindsets. The labs can get quite repetitive, but Professor Sweeney seems invested in adding layers to the course to make it more intellectually stimulating. Awesome class overall.
This course teaches you a new way of thinking about issues of technology and government. I think both gov people and CS/etc. people will get a lot out of the course. Prof. Sweeney's CS background and her experiences working with the FTC (alongside her overall incredible academic career in data and establishing standards for anonymity) lend each of her lectures an engaging, multidimensional element. The guest speakers we had were fantastic, especially former students who have gone on to do fascinating things related to issues covered in the course. The bi-weekly group projects, assigned on Thursday and due Tuesday, take some getting used to logistically but are very manageable. This course is a smooth, interesting introduction to understanding the many intersections of policy, data, and innovation. Everyone has something to gain from it.
Great course
Very easy class, but you will not necessarily learn a lot or be challenged
The material is very practical-privacy is an important issue in today's world, and Professor Sweeney is one of the foremost minds in the field. Assignments are not too stressful even though they are group projects. The online component needs reworked, and the lectures run a little dry at times, but otherwise, it's a fine course.
Everyone who lives in today's connected, technological society should take this class! It will open your eyes about how much personal data is available online and can be used to identify specific people. The workload is not too heavy, with group projects/presentations due every other week and independent in-class and out-of-class assignments due in between. They are all hands-on projects that allow you to use data in interesting ways and even warn others about the danger of their personal information being online. The final project is a great way to explore a topic that interests you and I was able to do a great project without having any computer science or data science background. Presenting at the project fair allows you to show off your hard work to the entire Harvard community and some students even get invited to present their work at the FTC. Professor Sweeney is such a sweet teacher with great stories about her experience at the FTC, giving a real-life interpretation of the material we learn about. This was one of the most fun, practical, and eye-opening classes I have taken at Harvard so far and I would recommend it to anyone!
This class is great! The course material is relevant to real life and Professor Sweeney is really cool.  Classes are lecture format with in-class labs built in. Almost all of the coursework is done in groups, which helps spread the work out and encourages you to work with new people in a low-stress environment.  Definitely worth shopping at least!!!!
Gov 1430 is an easy class where you'll learn a lot about data privacy issues that plague society today.  Coursework is easy and is done mostly in groups, so you will definitely not be overwhelmed. Latanya is awesome and has tons of resources and contacts, so you won't feel like the class is leaving something to be desired.  Take this class if you're looking for a relatively laid-back, fun course!
How many classes let you fly quadcopters around campus or ask you to hunt for Social Security numbers online? Only one, and this class is it. It's a Gov class, but don't let that fool you into thinking you'll just be reading and writing. How many Gov classes give you the opportunity to write code? You should take this class instead of CS 105.
This class is exceptional. The content is all fascinating, the teaching is exquisite, and the workload is manageable. This class gives you room to follow whatever path you want, so long as it fits in the general framework. This class is an excellent way to expand into the CS realm while still focusing on Gov.
Professor Sweeney is incredible, brilliant, and interesting.  You learn about topical issues and think about ways to solve them.  Completely and totally worth your time.
This course was pretty interesting. Professor Sweeney is quite knowledgeable and brings in a variety of interesting guest speakers. Labs were practical and provided an interesting take on the material.
This class is incredibly fun and cool, but be aware that it is poorly organized.
This class is really cool and interesting, but it has its limitations in this trial run at Harvard. Professor Sweeney's incredible experience plus breadth and depth of knowledge made the material and discussion consistently interesting; guest lecturers added a lot of expertise and perspective as well. Everything here is certainly relevant to everyone and is a good intro to topics in privacy and policy. On the flip side, though, expectations were consistently unclear or unrealistic, with some labs taking many hours and others hardly any time at all, and due dates shifting around or being announced last minute. There's also virtually no feedback, so no way to know your grade or how you're doing in the class. All in all it was a worthwhile and fun experience, though not without its shortcomings. Take it to get to know the awesome Professor Sweeney as well as hear from some truly fascinating guest speakers, and to benefit from regularly discussing these eminently relevant topics with gifted peers, grad students, and professionals in the field.
Take the time and effort to find a final project, and be sure to rely on Prof. Sweeney's great enthusiasm, resources, and connections in making it happen.
This class is extremely unorganized. It was interesting in spurts - Professor Sweeney's lectures were boring and seemed like they didn't have a clear point, but most of the guest speakers and labs were good. The real highlight, though, was learning from the others in the class, which included graduate students and people with amazing real-life experiences to contribute. My final project was less ambitious and fun than it could've been because Professor Sweeney promised me essential materials and then took weeks to deliver them. Similarly, she loses a lot of emails and never returned most of our graded assignments. This class is a nice elective/gov class because the workload is light (no homework except for biweekly labs, which are a lot of work), but beware the disorganization/potential frustration.
The material is interesting and Professor Sweeney is one of the coolest professors I have met.
Not well organized at all. Didn't really learn much either and thought it was a waste of a class slot.
This class is super real-world relevant and a great chance to learn more about how increasing tech advancement will impact our generation. Beware that most of the course's work will be done in group projects, which can extend the time commitment on a weekly basis, and that you'll need to stay on top of the course because organization isn't always super strong. However, the content makes taking this course worth it--as long as you're prepared to be a self-starter from the first week on.
Professor Sweeney is a leader in her field and is very committed to being there for the students in the class. The class can be a bit repetitive, and has very regular assignments. If you are looking for a class to expose you to the state of data privacy from someone who is really well respected in the field, though, this is a great and accessible class to take.
Professor Sweeney is amazing, but the course itself could use some work in terms of its organization. Some weeks you will have a lot of work, other weeks will be light. If the organizational issues are sorted out this will go from being a thoroughly enjoyable class to one of the best courses offered at Harvard.
This is a relatively easy Gov class, but some of the assignments can be geared toward someone who has a stat or CS background and you can feel a little bit useless in the projects that require coding or data analysis.
Given her impressive resume, I expected Professor Sweeney to be very intimidating but she was the oppositeshe was very kind and encouraging, which helped me become comfortable participating and really getting into the course activities. Jin and Ji Su are also helpful TFstake advantage of office hours to get guidance from them on assignments, as they can often be delivered at the very end of class without a ton of detail. I would definitely recommend taking this class if you're interested in technology, regardless of having technical experience or not, as it really does make this area accessible to anyone with the willingness to work hard. It changed the way I look at the world and how I perceive all issues at the intersection of technology, privacy, and policy.
This is a great class with low workload that really helps you understand data privacy and what is at-risk and at-stake in today's world of big data. Great intro to data privacy, but topics are high-level.
A really interesting subject matter, an awesome professor, but weird assignments and standards.  Never was fully clear what was expected of me.  It's supposed to be for both technical and non-technical students, but people with CS experience end up doing all the work in group assignments.
You have to do a lot of group work
This class is fantastically disorganized, with no clear due dates or expectations. It's also really hard, with dozens of hours required per lab and tons of quantitative and coding requirements.That said, Professor Sweeney is an inspirational character and cares a lot for her students, giving you the potential to get published and go to Capitol Hill if you do well in the class. Her network is insane and she's incredible accomplished.If government tech is your thing, 100% take the class because it gives you a chance to meet the woman who created the field. If you're looking for a chill elective, stay away. This is basically a CS class, but it's the coolest one I've ever taken.
I took this class because I thought it would be a thought-provoking but calm introduction to privacy concepts in the technology age. It turned out to be one of the most stressful classes I have ever taken at Harvard. Prof Sweeney is really focussed on getting headlines out of work, to the detriment of more nuanced conclusions than 'Company X is evil and is screwing your privacy'.4 days is not enough time to be assigned to a group, write a daunting algorithm from scratch (e.g. an algorithm to de-identify a dataset) and write up a 2-page report on it that has to include words from 5 different people. It's terrible that they don't let you start the projects until the Thursday before the Tuesday that they are due. If you have deadlines for other classes on that Friday and Monday, then you are in serious trouble as you are have zero opportunity to plan ahead for GOV1430. Assignments have not always been thought through. TFs were bombarded with requests for clarification every single week, resulting in them having to send several different clarifications out to the class 2 days before the due date of assignments.You need to know how to seriously code, probably in Python. CS50 probably not enough. Course staff need to stop encouraging non-technical Govt majors to apply to take the class. Non-technical people end up not being able to contribute to the project and get annoyed because they just have to write the Intro and Background sections every week and don't get to do any real research.
