You will cover much of the comparative politics literature, which is great, if you like comparative politics...
Fantastic. One of my favorite classes ever.
While the reading load is something to be cautious about (in terms of stacking other really time-consuming courses along with the Comparative Field Seminar), this course is really rewarding if you are looking to become more familiar with various branches of comparative politics.  It is a lot of work, but it has a high payoff in terms of the intellectual confidence it builds and the discoveries you make about the intellectual style to which you aspire.
This class demands a significant time commitment, but is a good introduction to the field.
Overall, while I did learn a lot, it was not in a time or effort efficient manner. I would not recommend it unless one majors in Comparative Politics and finds no way to avoid taking it.
This is a demanding but extremely rewarding course that covers many of the key issues in contemporary political science. I would strongly recommend it for all graduate students in the Department of Government.
If comparative politics is one of your subfields, you need to take this. It's a ridiculous amount of reading, but you will learn a lot.
Extraordinarily time-consuming, but highly rewarding
Only take this course if you love comparative politics.  Otherwise it's too much work.
Excellent class, but it is a lot of work.
It is a good course; interesting discussion and good preparation for generals, but a lot of reading! The assignments are challenging (because of their scope), so be prepared to spend more time of them than you think.
A great course, particularly for surveying the sub-field of comparative politics before getting into the details of specific topics.
This course is best to take in a large group of students, or with a professor that is skillful at leading discussions.
This course is most appropriate for Ph.D. students in government. Comparativists and non-comparativists will both benefit from taking this class. You'll walk away with a good sense of the major questions that animate the sub-field, though not necessarily a mastery of the literature in any given area.
The more you put into this course, the more you will get out of it.  Exponentially so.
This is, through and through, a fantastic course, especially as it was taught by Profs. Levitsky and Ziblatt.  Both of them are supremely capable instructors, who are genuinely interested in getting to know you and your research interests, and who lead an excellent discussion section.  Be prepared to do a lot of work--there are several hundred pages of reading a weak, and 6 papers of around 7 pages.  If you make it through, though, you will have a very thorough knowledge of comparative politics.
This was the best class I have taken at Harvard so far. It focused on a set of highly rewarding and intellectually stimulating readings, included a number of very interesting assignments, and benefited from lively class discussions. This was a superb class both thematically and pedagogically and I am very happy to have been able to take it.
It's probably too much reading to expect to take another reading course at the same time, so plan carefully.
The course offers a great overview of the Comparative Politics subfield, but is extremely time-intensive.
You really do learn about the field and the discussions are great!
Be prepared for a lot of reading.
Worth the hard work.
It's a lot more work than the other field seminars...
Huge amount of reading, but generally very interesting - as long as you wish to study comparative politics in detail. Basically necessary for comparativists, but would not recommend for most others. The professors are good and provide valuable insights throughout.
Take this class for the General Exam.
This class will teach you a lot about the field. The readings are really interesting and cover central debates. The discussions, however, were very unstructured. Prof. Bates likes to digress and we often did not get to discuss even the main issues in the readings.
I would tell future students that this course has a very heavy reading load.  It is probably best taken in a graduate students' second year as preparation for general exams.
If you are preparing for generals or want to get a broad overview of comparative politics, this is the course for you. However, it will likely not make you feel like you are working substantively on any one interesting issue - if you want a course to complement lots of methods courses and give you food for thought, pick something else.
The course is a lot of work, but worthwhile if you are keen to get a good survey of mainstream Comparative Politics literature.
It's a good overview of a very large field, but as with any such overview one is likely to leave feeling a bit unsatisfied, since no one topic can be explored in any depth.
The main problem with this course is that it does not seem to reflect a universal, department-agreed on core course in comparative politics, but rather the material we cover seems to depend on the instructors.  So students should consider whether they want to take it in their first or second year depending on who the instructors are and what kind of focus they will give it.  I would recommend, however, that the course should not be set up like this  it should cover all topics and regions equally, providing a balanced overview to the field of comparative politics.
If you are into rational choice, this is a good course for you
This course requires a lot of work, especially during weeks you have to write papers. But if you're looking for a good course to give a substantial background in significant literature in the field, this is an excellent course to take. Also, the professors really help you understand the aspects of certain subfields that need to be further developed.
This course is essentially required, so I strongly recommend it to people who wish to graduate.
A good class but be prepared for a fair amount of work and be aware that if students are responsible for structuring the conversation there may be a significant amount of variation in the quality of the discussion from week to week.
It's quite a bit of reading, though good preparation for the general exam if you do all the reading all semester and take decent (reading) notes.
Takes a lot of time and energy.
