If you're thinking of writing a theory thesis in Gov or Social studies, take this class! Cheryl and John were incredibly helpful for students with a wide range of projects.
Gov 63 offers infinite opportunities to contribute through discussion during class. There are no lectures, and discussion quality is contingent upon the number of your classmates who have done the readings/are interested in the topic (you actually can get by without doing the readings if you're very passionate, but it's not nearly as fulfilling, and the readings are great anyway). It's unlikely that if you're interested in this class, you'll be someone who isn't passionate about the subject material...but if you're pretty sure you won't be interested, definitely don't sign up. If you haven't done much political theory before but you're curious, TAKE THE COURSE. Seriously. It will be the most convincing advertisement for the virtues of political theory that you could ever find, I think. Also, John and Cheryl are fabulously good, so brilliant and so willing to cede time to student contributions (in addition to driving those contributions and responding in depth to them). The class isn't organized very strictly, which for some might be difficult. The second half of the course is also based on readings/topics chosen by your classmates and assigned to you by them, so if they pick things you're not interested in, too bad for you, basically. But I really liked that element of freedom personally, and it allowed us to diversify the number of issues we looked at.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. It allowed for a wide breadth of exploration of different kinds of political theory covering a wide range of topics while also allowing for an in-depth exploration of how political theory has dealt with a specific issue over the course of history. It allows you to really explore a topic of your own interest in depth, preparing you for a thesis or simply a paper on an interesting political theory topic. If you have any mild interest in political theory you are bound to find something for you.
Professor Welch is amazingly attentive and kind. Highest recommendations you learn a lot.
This course was perfect for juniors thinking about theses. It not only provided a strong core grounding in recent analytic political theory, but also helped us to develop the skills required to contribute meaningfully to highly philosophical discussions. I hugely appreciated how the course became more malleable as it progressed, allowing the students to pick their own topics and readings. It was the quintessential political theory seminar, in my opinion.
This is the class to take if you want an engaging, educational, semi-intensive introduction to the current discourse in political theory.
The opportunity to learn from Professor Rosen is special, but take advantage of his time outside the classroom to increase the opportunity for feedback on your individual thoughts.
it's a really interesting class with a thorough overview of political theory. however, be prepared for a lack of diversity in thinkers and little structure. still a great class nonetheless
Professor Rosen is extremely knowledgeable. Be prepared to follow your own interests, as much of the content of the course is structured by the students themselves, which is really cool.
This class is only for people really interested in political theory, but if so, it is a very enjoyable class.
If you like more modern political theory/philosophy, this is a great course. But be prepared to put in a lot of time on the readings/presentations, and write a long final paper (philosophy papers are denser than they may seem!). The chance to work with Michael Rosen, though, is not one you should pass up lightly if you are interested in the topic. He is fantastic as a professor and leads a great course.
This class is challenging but overall very rewarding - you get to read many key pieces of academic literature in the field, and also get to present on your field of interest. A good starting point for students who have some knowledge in political philosophy and want to take it further.
I really enjoyed this class.  It is fairly self-motivated and I'm still not sure how the grading works, but I enjoyed the subject materials and the discussions.
This was an amazing class - I could not recommend it more
This is a great class if you're interested in political philosophy. Michael Rosen is an incredibly bright and engaging Professor who seems genuinely interested in the opinions and ideas of his students. The small class size makes for exciting discussion and Professor Rosen allowed the class to determine the syllabus for half of the semester, making it possible for us to explore our individual interests with the rest of the class. If you're a theory nerd and you're looking for a good recent political philosophy class, take this class!
This is essentially a tiny lecture course with very little back-and-forth discussion between students. The professor focused more on providing his own commentary than on facilitating the development of students' own arguments and perspectives. I feel I would've learned as much doing the reading on my own; the class discussions were not proper discussions at all, and so I found them frustrating and inconclusive. If you have an exceptionally strong interest in contemporary Anglo-American philosophy, you may enjoy this course, but I doubt otherwise.
Despite Harvard's reputation as an unparalleled institution of higher learning, it's actually quite rare as an undergraduate to get close with the top minds of any field. The vast majority of courses either have too large a class size to get close with the professor, or are led by a professor who cares little about his/her undergraduate teaching and is unaccessible outside of the classroom. Gov 63 is one of the rare gems at Harvard that allows for personal engagement with one of the brightest professors in the field. Professor Rosen's breadth of knowledge covers anything you would care to mention, and it's nigh impossible to have a discussion that Rosen couldn't contribute to meaningfully. The discussion-based seminar format lets you to engage with the material and readings in a different way than you are likely used to in other Gov/Phil courses, which have presumably been lecture-heavy. Although this is billed as a course that helps with potential thesis writers, I found it to help more with speaking clearly than with writing clearly. Though if you are looking to develop your analytic writing skills, this class also helps.All in all, if you are willing to actually read (actually actually -- you won't get away with skipping or even skimming readings) and are interested in political philosophy, I fully recommend with course without hesitation.
This is a small class where you can learn different topics in political theory comprehensively, and you might even bring topics of your own interest to the discussion. The text assigned are usually suitable for discussion, and professor Rosen does have a wide range of knowledge in political theory to guide students. The workload is not heavy, just two presentations, one practice paper, and one final paper. You don't need extensive knowledge of political theory to take this course, but if you already do (I mean nearly every topic in political theory), you can still think of this as a good discussion section. Anyway, TAKE IT!
Take this class! If you are interested in political theory, you should know that you won't find anything like it again. The readings can be fairly demanding in the first weeks (200-300 pages of philosophy are quite challenging), but the workload diminishes after those initial "foundational" classes and the course gets lighter. It is just a small hassle compared to the very comprehensive, but still deep understanding that you will be presented to and the opportunity to learn this closely from Professor Rosen. He is an outstanding political theorist who will give you a very sharp understanding of the debates in an engaging and often (Britishly) funny way. Professor Rosen also provides a lot of feedback on your writing, and you learn a lot. If you do take the course, you won't regret it. Just remember that this is a small class and you have to do the readings and be prepared to debate them. Always have in mind at least one question you would like to bring to discussion, and enjoy.
This is a great course for someone wanting to further explore ready interests within the field of political theory, particularly along the lines generally traced in the government department. It must be noted, however, that agreement with certain premises seems somewhat assumed, so though intricate discussion is a staple of this course, it may not be as well-suited for the more sceptically or critically minded.
In one sentence: Take this class! It was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Readings are extremely interesting--both to those who have experience in political philosophy and those that are new to the field (like me!). Professor Rosen masterfully balances guiding conversation with allowing students to raise questions of interest. He is someone you want to take a course with, and a seminar-style allows students to be a big part of the class. You will not regret becoming a part of the community of Gov 63.
