It's an incredibly interesting class that I hadn't seen before. The focus on the origins of war rather than the history itself is greatly applicable to both understanding the past as well as the future. And in light of the Iraq War, this class took on even more meaning in helping to explain the current state of world affairs and possible explanations.
Can't beat Walt as a lecturer and the topic is amazing.
I would recommend to students with an interest in the topic but would caution those with experience in this field and topic that the course will not offer many new insights.
Just hope that Walt keeps teaching.
It is a great class, the material is interesting, and the exposition is accessible.
Great Professor, Great Subject Matter
Professor Walt brings the history to life in a sometimes cynical, and often humorous way.  It is a good introduction to theories of warfare, but also serves as an entertaining, enlightening elective course.
It's a super easy class with minimal work, but entertaining to go to. I didn't feel like I learned much.
This course will help you learn about the various origins of war, while providing you with a framework to understand those origins and why they might have occurred in various wars in the past.  This course is fun, exciting, and engaging if you are interested in international relations, history, and just wars in general!
This is probably the hardest course I've taken in my undergraduate career.  As a special student through Extension School, I cannot inform Harvard College students from a similar vantage point.  That being said, I view myself as an actively engaged student, so it wasn't the course load that challenged me but rather my initial lack of confidence in the direction of section meetings.
It is a very interesting course, but challenging at the same time and requires a lot of analyzing and some memorizing. It is very applicable to real life and is important to understand foreign policy, however is challenging at the same time.
I'm a science major and this was easily my favorite course this semester. Well-taught, well-organized, and fun.
Steven Walt is an excellent professor and the material is important for general life knowledge.
Prof. Walt is a great professor and his lectures are very interesting. The reading is also enjoyable.
Great lectures. Great sections. Interesting, important material. Taught by a renowned insightful, and very personable scholar.
Walt is AMAZING and you have to take this course!!!!
This is a great course for anyone interested in military history.
This is a wonderful class!
Great topic + great professor = great class
If you have time for this class, take it. If not, take it pass/fail. Take it! It is WAY BETTER than History A-12.
engaging lectures, interesting topic
It can get somewhat repetitive, especially since you're studying wars that you've probably already studied a lot, but it gives a new way of looking at wars.
walt is an amazing lecturer and a giant in the field -- not often do you have that combination, so grab this opportunity to take a class with him!
Know that the curve for this class is less generous than in other gov department classes.
One of the best lecture courses I've taken.
Fairly one-of-a-kind class.  Professor is very, very good, material is truly interesting.
THIS CLASS WAS AMAZING. WALT IS FANTASTIC. TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!!!!!!
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Professor Walt is amazing and the topic is so relevant.
They should take this class if they want a general knowledge of the most important wars of the twentieth century.  It is a class that gets to the point and only presents relevant information.  Its information that is good to know for any other history class as well.
Be ready for difficult tests
Very interesting lectures.  Whereas most classes focus on one war or time period, 1732 covers most modern day wars, making it much more interesting.
Make sure you start the final paper the moment it is assigned. Try to get in a study group so you can split the readings.
This class was a very interesting IR class, but it may not be a good option for someone just looking for an elective.
relatively painless.
you should take this class before leaving harvard, even if you aren't a gov concentrator; it gives you a really good understanding of international relations
The midterm is darn near impossible.
Enjoy!
A very enlightening and thought provoking course.
As it is, the readings were the best part of the course, and you obviously don't have to take the course to do the readings.  If you're a government major, you don't have a choice, but if you're someone just interested in the material the course is kind of a waste.
take it, its great
Future students should be prepared to look at the popular war from a new perspective - for instance, the Cold War would be taught from BOTH American and Russian perspectives. Certain open-mindedness would be helpful.
Students should be prepared to handle a great deal of material.
Grading is absolutely idiotic.
This is very interesting and applicable to current events.
This is the absolute best class I have taken at Harvard. Professor Walt is engaging and intelligent, forcing students to challenge themselves academically and intellectually.
Great course in which I learned a lot about modern wars and why they occur. I also learned the significant factors behind some of recent history's most famous conflicts like the Cold War and Arab-Palestinian conflict.
If you like history and government, this is the perfect class because it combines historical events with present-day theory all the while challenging to put these theories in the context of today's society.  The dynamics of war are so fascinating, never leaving you bored.
You'll come out with a lot of information about Wars and why they are thought.  It might open your perspective quite a bit.
Lecture is crucial to understanding what is going on
Probably one of the best classes content wise in the Government department. Essays and papers are graded fairly and section really allows you to dive deep into the material and engage in some great debates. If you're into the study of war, this is exactly the class you want to take.
The professor is amazing! He gives the best lectures, sprinkles a bit of humor on it all and tops it off with wearing some crazy and hypnotizing ties!
This is one of those classes that make you want to tell your friends "Oh I took that amazing class at Harvard." I learned a lot of history concerning the past 100 years. But more importantly we covered a plethora of theories on war which have provided me with amazing insights on how the world works.
The lectures are brilliant, but you need to do all the readings in order to keep up with them. This course is quite a big undertaking, but worth it for what you get out.
if you take it, be prepared to study hard before the midterm and final but other than that just go to every lecture and you'll be fine. Professor Walt is the best lecturer at Harvard (atleast from the classes I've taken and I'm a junior)
this class is incredible. rarely have i ever felt that a class made me a better person, but this one did. i thoroughly enjoyed everything about the class: lectures, section, readings, even the paper. everyone should take it.
It is a very difficult course. If you prefer to take it pass fail you should do that, but I took it for a grade and got a lot more out of it because of that.
If you're not overly concerned with getting an A, it's a great and engaging class to take. Grading is most difficult I've ever seen for a Government course.
I think this class is great - many people told me they thought it was the best class at Harvard and I definitely didn't feel that strongly... but the information was pretty interesting and I certainly didn't DISLIKE anything about it.
good class, moderately challenging and interesting.  the TFs are really awesome.  dont expect it to be life-changing but you will learn a lot more about the wars of the 20th century and the theories behind why wars begin.  the research paper at the end allows you to learn a lot about a war of your choice, which can be rewarding if you take interest in it.
Truly fascinating material, replete with both theory and history that was revelatory to me. Prof. Walt is an excellent lecturer, and the TFs are 1st class as well. Take this class!
TAKE THIS CLASS PASS/FAIL OR BAD THINGS WILL HAPPEN TO YOU!
hardest Gov class I've encountered, worth it because the professor and material are so interesting. Be prepared for massive study load.
This class is great. Take it pass/fail.
Take this class if you know you have the time to!
Excellent course overall, great lectures, interesting course material, and will make you a more informed citizen in helping you understand how to think about current events. However, the volume of material you are expected to learn in such a short amount of time is overwhelming and the tests are very hard. be warned.
This is a difficult course. A lot of information to digest, and the exams will test a very small and not-always intuitive selection of that knowledge. One of the best courses at Harvard, particularly within the Government department.
I took it pass/fail so it wasn't nearly as hard as it could have been, but I would imagine taking this class for a grade would require a lot of work. Having said that, it is probably worth it since the course content is really interesting.
Don't let the final paper sneak up on you! Be sure to attend lecture: there is a lot presented there that you won't find elsewhere, including on the course website. Thesis-writers beware: YOU CAN'T GET OUT OF OR POSTPONE THE MIDTERM, which falls right before or after most humanities and social science theses are due.
This is an incredibly difficult course.  You learn a lot, but I always felt like I was scrambling not to fall behind.
The most interesting lectures I've attended at Harvard.
Take it pass/fail if you can.  It requires a lot of reading and work, but the material is great.
This is probably one of the best courses you can have. Prof Walt is a phenomenal lecturer with a really really distinctive sense of humor. He is also an expert - the big  name - in the field, so you can expect to learn many original ideas from him. The section component is also amazing as all the TFs are really distinguished.The course is difficult, but it's not impossible to get into the A range. There are many things you should keep in mind if you wish to do well in this course. Be prepared to work really really hard. Make sure you go to all lectures and keep up with all the readings. Start with the paper early.
It's a great course. On the hard side though.
This is a great class that addresses hugely important and interesting issues in international relations in a clear and meaningful way. This was one of the last classes I took at Harvard, and I feel it has left me with a more intelligent and nuanced perspective on world politics.  I feel very blessed to have had the opportunity to take such a class. This being said, this class does demand a lot from you (especially during the paper and exam weeks) and you should not take it if you are not willing to be challenged fairly intensely at a few points over the semester.
Interesting class, but will require some effort
This course will change how you follow current events and give you a better understanding of one of the most important phenomenon in mankind: war.
be prepared for a lot of reading and difficult assignments, but the teaching and format are top notch
This is a challenging but very interesting and rewarding class. As long as you keep up with the readings so that you are able to participate in discussions during sections, you will end the semester with a good grade in the class. However, its really easy to fall behind with work, and thats when the class can get overwhelming.
Stephen Walt is a star in the field of international relations and the teaching fellows are nothing short of a cavalcade of aspiring understudies. Take the class! It's plenty of reading and the term paper requires some time to develop, but it is definitely worth it, even if you are not into government per say. Oh, and Jeff Friedman is the man.
The assignments of this course, though light, are painful.
Graded very unfairly, only take if you are very interested
this class is HARD, and the grading is tough, but it is so worth it. For my friends who are not GOV, i would still recommend they take this class, maybe pass/fail.
Hard class; but you definitely gain something from it, even if you don't do all the readings.
The material is very interesting and the lectures are engaging, but the grading is surprisingly difficult and the course has a heavy workload.
This class is probably one of the harder classes I've taken at harvard, but was also one of my absolute favorites. The course material is engaging, the professor is brilliant,and my TF was highly capable and enthusiastic.
If it meets a requirement, it's a good option.  Be prepared for somewhat difficult exams and final paper, but do not be scared away if it's a topic that interests you.
This is a great class. It's crazy interesting and will likely change your ideas about war. But it's a lot of work, if you want to keep up and be prepared for the midterm and final. Still, I thought that it was worth it.
Extremely interesting class which brings a lot of light to international conflict today.
Great class. Walt is a fantastic lecturer. Beware, it is final exam + final paper = more work.
If you're not too worried about getting a perfect A, take this course because the topic is amazing. However, if you're worried about your GPA, it's a little hard to get a good grade.
This class is graded very harshly
awesome class
this class is extremely hard. do not take this unless you are REALLY passionate about international politics. it is very difficult, and you are in a class full of people who live and breath this stuff
Great class! Take it if you're at all interested in international relations or the Arab-Israeli conflict.
Its a great class, but its tough.
The lectures are great and Walt is really engaging, but the class is pretty hard.  The midterm was tough and there are pretty high expectations for the paper.
I would definitely advise them to do as much of the reading, as possible, and to ideally take it if they have studied some IR theory, as this would make the value of the course in their academic experience much greater.
The material is wonderful.  Lectures are engaging.  Do it.
Hard but worth it.
This class is difficult and has a tough curve. The course material and lectures are very interesting and someone taking this class will not regret anything except for the grading.
This was a fascinating course; the topics were really interesting, but the grading was so harsh (it's hurting my GPA even though I tried really hard in this class) and my TF was so intimidating, I didn't find it enjoyable.
It's a great class, but you need to be prepared to do a LOT of reading and a LOT of studying for the midterm and final.
This is an incredibly informative class that will give you the knowledge to understand some of the most common underlying explanations of the outbreak of the major conflicts in modern history.
one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard; interesting and engaging
be prepared to have 70% of your grade determined by a final paper and final exam. the course is very heavy at the tail end.
Do not take this class unless you are willing to put a lot of effort into it. You get as much out of it as you put in, and this is a very demanding course that involves a lot of time and thinking.
Walt is a figure and a wonderful lecturer. Section ended up being a gem - from what I could tell, all 3 of the TFs were excellent teachers, since they set expectations and really pushed us. I learned a lot through section!
This class is amazing.  Definitely the most interesting class I took this semster, but be prepared to work.  The reading is pretty important for understanding the theory behind each case since Prof. Walt focuses on explaining the history and brief theory in lecture.  It's not impossible to get by without doing all the reading, but it's definitely more rewarding to do most of it and go to lecture ALL THE TIME (I took it with my sophomore history tutorial and a history reading seminar).  TAKE THIS CLASS
Be careful of taking this course with other reading heavy courses. Also, your GPA may be negatively impacted, but the content is worthwhile.
I'm not a gov concentrator, but I loved this course. Prof. Walt is one of the best lecturers you will ever have.
be prepared for harsh grading, it's a good way to get a sense of all the major theories and many of the most important wars, but if there was another course that did the same job, I would shop both thoroughly
This course was my favorite course at Harvard. The enthusiasm Professor Walt has for the subject combined with his amazing lecture skills made lectures amazing!
I wouldn't encourage a student to take this as their first class in the gov department, but Professor Walt is an excellent lecturer and learning about why wars have happened in the past sheds important light on the conflicts going on today. It's definitely a course a political science student or just a person interested in the politics of war today should take - but the course structure and requirements make it a pretty difficult class too.
Have a good understanding of modern wars. Also, start the term paper early!
Superb class. Amazing professor, interesting material. Highly recommended!!
This was a great course, but only take it if you are truly interested in the subject and willing to do the work.
Great class, but a lot of work.
The reading is manageable although it may appear as a lot. However, it is offset by the absolutely phenomenal lectures. Professor Walt presents a plethora of interesting anecdotes to the course material as well as lecturing in a lighter (even comical) manner.
This is an incredible class that is engaging and challenging. It forces students to think in a very critical way about progress and history. It definitely pushes you to a higher level of understanding but in ways that are easy to apply to current events as well as the required course materials.
The exams are hard, grading scheme is low for Harvard standards (curve around a B-), but it's totally worth it.  Learned so much, and really enjoyed lectures.  Walt's one of the best lecturers I've had here!
This class is awesome, you will learn so much information that is intellectually satisfying and pertinent to the real world.  Just be prepared to take looooots of notes during lecture and make sure you go to section.  It is a lot of material to learn, but it is taught in a coherent and organized manner as long as you pay attention.
I think it is a person's civic duty to take this class.  This class makes you a better informed citizen and should be taken by as many people as possible.
If you are interested in IR theory, this course is a must. Professor Walt is one of those professors you should take a course with before you graduate.
This class is amazing. I cannot endorse it highly enough. Professor Walt is the definition of a boss. He's funny, engaging, brilliant, and influential in his field all at once. And the content of this course will change the way you read the newspaper everyday and enhance your understanding of international affairs. That said, though, this class is demanding. Readings are not overly lengthy, but it moves fast and the concepts can be difficult. But is definitely, 100%, absolutely worth it.
they will ask you to memorize names of academics who wrote about things everybody already knows
Expect lots of work, but rewarding and interesting material
The material is informative and applicable to our lives today: it covers major wars of the past and outlines the main causes of them, encouraging you to extrapolate from these ideas to brainstorm ways in which wars can be prevented in the future.
Get in Yuri's section! Also take it pass/fail-- you'll still get a lot out of the course but won't have as much stress.
This class will change the way you think about history and international relations.  Understanding how to test theories with history is a broadly applicable skill.  And the history itself is fascinating.  Walt is an AMAZING lecturer and the TFs are all qualified and incredibly smart.  Take this class if you have a chance - you won't regret it!
I would say that there is a lot of work, and that the class is graded very hardly in comparison with other Harvard classes.  That being said, I did learn a lot of valuable information in the class.
If you're ready to dive head first into some of the most conflicts of the past 100 years, this is the course for you. A serious endeavor, so not for the faint of heart.
Absolutely fantastic lectures. TF's are kinda disorganized. Tests a little arbitrarily graded. Hard. I learned a ton.
This is a very interesting course. It is heavy on the history of specific wars. Great lectures.
Beware, this course may be different than you think it will be.  Though the first and last weeks covering theoretical readings are fascinating, much of the course is a crash course in history that one must be very detail-oriented to succeed in.  It is also easy to get lost in this large yet very challenging class.  Avoid trying to memorize every term on the review sheets for exams and instead focus on having a good grasp of all readings and key historical facts.
You're not going to get an A in the class (if I had a nickel for every time I overhead a classmate complain about how unreasonably harsh the grading is....), but the content of the course is absolutely phenomenal. You'll end the semester with a GREAT theoretical understanding of the causes of war, and the unit on nuclear weapons is particularly awesome. Professor Walt is a fantastic lecturer. Don't let the impossibility of an A stop you from taking it!
This is a really great class.  I learned so much about the causes of war, and where before I would approach the topic much more viscerally, now I am able to analyze conflicts theoretically as well.  I think the readings were really engaging--I wanted to do all of them--and I thought the structure of the course, starting with theory and ending with case studies, was excellent.  It was difficult but rewarding. I also think I leave this class a better thinker more capable of developing nuanced arguments, identifying counterarguments, and defending a single position.
Gov 1732 is a really great class.  Professor Walt's lectures are really interesting/engaging, and the staff was (and I've heard typically is) great.  The readings are pretty manageable, as gov classes go, and are also pretty interesting.  I definitely feel like I learned a ton and am way better able to analyze both history and current events now!
I came into Gov 1732 expecting to be blown away...I wasn't, but I did it to be a solid class that gave me a strong introduction to war. The class is not hard day-to-day, but the research paper and final at the end of the semester are both brutal (and worth 70% of your grade together). This class is tough, but I would definitely recommend it.
It's really interesting, but really difficult and covers a lot of material.
Very interesting class if you're into military history or 20th century history. If you're taking it as an elective, however, I would suggest going P/F -- the grading can be kind of harsh.
It is a really hard course but worth it if you put the time into it.
Taking it pass fail is by no means required - it's not as hard as many of the other Q guide comments make it out to be. It's challenging, sure, but very fair, and the extensive feedback and clear expectations make preparing for it much easier than it would be otherwise. THat said, it allows you to enjoy the best things about it - the amazing lectures, the relevance, the great TFs without needing to do nearly as much work. I recommend it, as long as it means you'll still put in enough work to get a lot out of it.
Awesome but difficult class. Take it Pass/Fail as an elective. Walt is excellent and the material is very interesting and I feel like I came away with a better understanding of conflicts around the world. Really, really enjoyed learning in this class; one of the few classes I can honestly say that about at Harvard.
The class is challenging. Be prepared to do a lot of reading. The TF staff is good and really push you to understand the materials through interactive activities during sections. If you are looking for an IR I would defiantly recommend.
This class covers interesting material, and the lectures are interesting, but most of the test material comes from the readings. It is also graded on a bell curve, so even if you work really hard, and do well, it is all relative to how your peers do.
This is a great course and you will come to understand very relevant and significant global conflicts extremely well. You will develop the skills to analyze the causes of war without just a dense review of theory but by applying the theory to case studies. Lectures are fast-paced but extremely informative and be prepared for rather demanding sections with discussion and debate. This course also helps you formulate and voice your opinions well.
Very difficult. Consider taking pass/fail.
Take it pass fail
amazing, but really hard, not an easy A class, not an easy B class either
As I'm sure others have mentioned, there is a great deal of reading required by this course. The assignments aren't easy, and because of the grade breakdown and awful lot ends up riding on the term paper and final (right at the end). Professor Walt is very interesting though, the class is worth taking just for his lectures.
Take it pass/fail. But this is probably my favorite course I've taken at Harvard.
great class. but very rigorous.
Not easy, but Professor Walt is a superstar. If you're interested in international security, you need to take this class.
This course will teach you a lot.  I think this is a great alternative to typical foreign policy classes.  A study group for readings is necessary though.
Probably one of the best gov classes at Harvard. Very interesting material, great lectures, and a decent academic challenge. What's not to like?
You won't regret. Form a study group to reduce the work load!
I loved this class but I also took it pass fail. It was great to just enjoy Walt's lectures and not stress about the work load
interesting but hard
The course is extremely interesting and exciting in terms of the material covered. And the sections are a great way to connect the material to historical examples and modern context. It is a very well taught government course.
This course Pass/Fail + Senior Spring = Awesome
The midterm this year was horrendous, but it was much improved by the final. Be ready to commit a lot of effort to the readings. Also DO NOT GET DISTRACTED BY THE STUDY GUIDE THEY GIVE YOU. It's actually kind of (very) irrelevant to the test, so you're better off re-reading all of the readings and taking terms from them as you go.
It's a lot of work but with a lot of return
This course is awesome. I thought Professor Walt did a great job and was an awesome lecturer. Moreover, I thought the information was very interesting because you got to see the evolution of war to what it is now. I would recommend this course, but I would stress that you pass/fail it and just soak up the information rather than stress over a grade.
You get out of this class what you put into it: if you do the readings relatively thoroughly, take good notes in lecture, and participate in section, then this is an amazing course. If you're interested in politics or history, I would highly recommend it.
This class probably should not be taken by anyone who hasn't had Gov coursework experience. You must be willing to put time into the reading and assignments, but the lectures are GREAT!
Don't take it with other hard classes.
Really good class for those of us who like to study war. I feel like the material itself was not too difficult, but the grading was harsh. That's what makes the course so difficult. Probably won't help your GPA, but you should sack up and take it anyway because you'll learn a lot
The class is only three assignments and almost all of it it as the end of the semester. The class can be great or terrible in that way depending on your schedule. Lectures are good but not that amazing. it is a great pass/fail fourth or fifth class... only three assignments and no pressure. failing is very hard to do... very very very hard to do.
[BACKGROUND] I took this class because I knew very little about the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, and I didn't know anything about the Palestinian conflict. Now I know slightly more, or at least which authors I would read if I wanted to learn more. This class taught me that I am not interested in issues of war and peace. I did enjoy the theory component a lot, but that's just the first two weeks of class. The rest of the time is spent on history, which I found boring. [ON ENROLLING] I have no regrets about taking this class because I took it Pass/Fail. This class did its job in teaching me information about the world--information that I was interested in learning. I recommend students to take this class only if they are taking it pass/fail. Sure, I didn't work as hard as I might have, but let's be realistic: most people don't work as hard as they should for graded classes anyway, so the amount you slack off when taking a pass/fail class is only slightly higher than the rate you slack off normally. [ON DIFFICULTY] You don't really need to do the readings if you have a study guide. Just have someone each week summarize the readings in a paragraph or less, and make sure you understand what the summary says. Reference the readings when you are confused. Write as much of the term paper as you can when you get your first written assignment back--it'll make writing the term paper so much easier and less rushed. I chose to test a theory instead of writing a paper on a specific war. Testing a theory is much harder than writing about a specific war, but I think testing a theory is much more interesting, just make sure you start early. The exams are easy if you have a good study guide like I had. The short questions just test the main ideas of every article you read. The distribution of the grades means that only 2 people will get an A, so you probably won't get higher than a A-/B+ in this classanother reason to take it pass/fail. [ON DOING WELL] Form a study group at the beginning of the semester, even if you're taking the class pass/fail--just don't tell your study group your grading status. For the study guide, summarize each reading in 5-7 sentences (if you're writing more, you're missing the point) and include definitions for the key terms relevant to each reading. Cross-reference the key terms you included in your study guide with the 200+ vocab sheet that your TF gives you the week of the  midterm. Don't bother looking them all up--especially all the people and events. Focus on theoretical concepts, and know the author, not the article. You will not get away with thinking, I don't understand this reading summary, but it probably won't show up on the exam. It will.
Fascinating and timely course. Walt is a fantastic lecturer, and the material is very interesting. Great history and international relations survey course
one of the best courses the government department has to offer
Take it pass/fail. It is really interesting but the grade deflation policy makes it unnecessarily difficult.
The lectures are fantastic, but the grading is a bit rough, so if you're a freshman without much IR experience, you might want to consider waiting a semester or two.
This is an interesting class that engages with current and historical wars and the underlying theory. However, the syllabus should include an additional war, WWIII, which is waged against your GPA by the grading scheme of the class. Take it pass/fail. Enjoy it, do the research paper well, and you should be fine. Otherwise, take it at your own risk.
It's a great overview of modern wars, but the theories aren't really compelling, and all of them contradict each other, sometimes with the same causal effect producing the opposite result. The course itself is well taught but its two short 1-hour lectures a week, which isn't enough to get a lot from the material.
PLEASE READ: I recommend this course with a strong qualification. Please be SKEPTICAL. If you are going in without a strong prior knowledge of recent wars it is easy to be taken by several of the readings and swayed by Walt's effective lectures. However, do not be easily won. Also, be argumentative in section. It makes doing the readings a lot easier.
This class has a high reading load, but all the reading is relevant and useful. Lectures were fantastic, but the sections in particular were phenomenal. I've never been in a section where people were routinely so prepared and where I learned so much.
Lots of reading that you have to keep up on, but a very interesting and worthwhile class
If you're really interested in the material and you have the time to devote to the details of the course, then you should take it. Otherwise, give it some serious thought during shopping period, and take a serious look at how assignments are spaced on the syllabus.
It's hard to get a flat A, but if you're a senior and don't really care about grades anymore, it's definitely interesting if you're a history-politics type. Lectures are well done.
This class is a lot of work and the TFs and professor have very high expectations. That said, the lectures are incredible (literally the only 10am class I have consistently gone to), the material is really interesting, and the class teaches you a lot about IR realist theory and some history. Definitely highly recommended, but be prepared to put forth a lot of time and energy on this class, or take it pass/fail.
There is a ton of reading to cover and the work for this class is heavily concentrated at the end, but Walt's lectures were absolutely fantastic.
Just watch out for the tests.  They are really hard, and a bit tricky.
Go see Walt during shopping week, and you'll be hooked. He is one of the most interesting lecturers at Harvard. That alone is worth taking the class. Like many gov classes, you won't learn much (unless you count some old professor's theories), but it's still a good class to take. The sections are well-run and the class is organized. Be willing to do a ton of reading.
While there is a lot of reading and the term paper is a pain, this is a fantastic course. Walt tells IR how it is, in a very clear and engaging manner.
Be prepared to do a lot of work on the back-end of the semester: term paper, final, neither of which you can really prepare for more than a few weeks in advance. Lecture keeps things interesting. Pretty standard gov class on a very interesting topic.
This class is very hard, and is graded on a curve that can often be frustrating. The reading is intense, and you must do it to have a good idea of what is going on. That said, if one were to do all the work I am sure it would be a rewarding experience.
This is by far the best course I have taken at Harvard. It's also one of the most difficult. Walt and the TF's have higher expectations of the material and will require you to understand and develop your theories at a much more substantive level. That said, it's more than worth it. The class will change the way you think about conflict and require you to contribute your own ideas to the field. In the end, the workload is the reason the course is so good. I can't recommend it enough.
It is difficult and has a lot of work, but it is a very worthwhile experience!
Take this course if you are at all interesting in international relations.  If you aren't don't take this course.
You will need to do a lot of work for this course; however, you will WANT to do a lot of work for this course. The readings are really interesting - I remember being told to skim a few chapters and ending up reading them as carefully as the other assigned reading, simply because it was interesting. I'm not a government concentrator, and at times I felt intimidated by the collective knowledge in my section, but this has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard. I also learned more from my peers in section than I have in any section at Harvard.
It is a lot of work - but it is worth it
Study hard for the exams, they are very difficult! Otherwise, the class is definitely worth it. Lectures are phenomenal, although there is a lot of reading and section isn't always amazing. This would be a good class to take Pass/Fail.
Take it, its cool.
It's a lot of reading and memorizing facts, when you could get the same theoretical background from Gov 40 with much more interesting lectures.  It just didn't feel like I took anything from the class
Take this pass/fail!
lectures are really great, lots of reading, section discussions take lots of different forms which keeps it interesting
It is the best class I have ever taken
This is a very difficult course, but well worth it if you have any interest in international affairs
The material is great if you're interested in international relations, conflict resolution or development.  However, this isn't an easy class, the grading is tough and more is expected of you than the average Harvard or Gov class. Pass/fail is not a bad idea, but even so, you'd need to keep up with the reading.
Seriously, take this class. Walt is the best lecturer I've had at Harvard and course material does not get more relevant to world affairs than this.
Don't take this course pass/fail. Honestly, put in the time and effort and you will learn more in this course than anywhere else. The material is fascinating, Walt is an incredible instructor, and the class is definitely worth it. Take it for a grade to force yourself to put in the time and effort and you will do great.
A lot of readings but very good course once you have a solid foundation of how government classes operate
professor walt is awesome, great lectures. the work is challenging and graded tough. the tests really separate those who have done the readings and those who have not
This course has a lot of reading, which you really need to do, but the case studies are extremely interesting. It's also really cool to hear the opinions and analysis of someone so prominent in IR academia as Stephen Walt.
This course offers a comprehensive overview of the subject matter, and the professor is both experienced and enthusiastic. Be prepared for a heavy workload and significant amounts of material to memorize for exams. Not a Senior Spring Course--take P/F if possible.
Great class, lots of reading
The amount of work you put in this class is exorbitant, but you really come out with a good perspective on international relations and you learn so much. I think every student at Harvard should take this class!
This class truly made me more of a global citizen. I learned about some of the most pressing issues on the earth and where they are rooted as well as the theory to contextualize them and yet so little of this very important knowledge is commonly taught or known. I recommend this class with great enthusiasm not just because it was a phenomenal experience, but also because more people ought to know about this subject and the covered topics.
This class is tough. 70% of your grade is determined in the last two weeks of the semester and the term paper is pretty challenging. Nonetheless, the material in this course is very interesting. Likewise, Professor Walt is second to none and his lectures are some of the best I've attended at Harvard. If you're at all interested in international relations, this class is a must.
Overall, this is an excellent class.  It will give you a thorough grounding in war theory, and while teaching you all of the minutiae of most major conflicts since WWI.  That said, it is as tough as everybody says it is and you probably won't get an A, so if you can't take a GPA hit than don't take the class.
Walt is an excellent lecturer and in a single class you learn everything you'll ever need to know about the topic. The readings are extensive and challenging, but you really get to learn the material.
The course lent itself to be an academically stifling experience because there was SOO much emphasis placed on the small number of A's that are given and the exams included more obscure concepts , making me, as well as other student I talked to feel like they were designed to test your knowledge of the material and more like they were designed to make you study incredibly hard due to a self-haughty aura surrounding the course and its instructors.
Great as a PASS/FAIL elective. Emphasis on pass/fail. Aside from writing the paper I probably spent two or three hours of work on the class. The lectures are totally amazing, great and really interesting stuff to know. For the essays, they basically tell you that yours sucked and then give you a good grade. But the short answers were really, really hard. On the first midterm, only one or two out of the eight terms were on the review sheet, which was four pages with two columns. Don't know how you get a good grade if you're going for a letter.
Very good intro course into conflict studies
This class is amazing! You will learn SO much even if you already think that you're somewhat of an expert on wars. It was time consuming, made me laugh, made my cry, but in the end I regret absolutely nothing. "Frankly, I had enjoyed the war..."
This course was wonderful. Walt is fascinating and a great lecturer, and the TFs really engage with the material and have interesting sections. Expect one or two curveballs in the ID section of the midterm and exams, but overall they prepare you well (although the amount of material to be covered may seem daunting).
Awesome class, although they grade very harshly. Walt is a great professor, and Yuri is the best section leader I've ever had. Subject matter very useful. Just make sure you're ready for a tricky class.
Exams were hard. Course was interesting enough to make up for that. Realists sometimes have an arrogance to them...http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/04/30/what_if_realists_ran_us_foreign_policy_a_top_ten_list
It's a really interesting class overall, just be sure you really know the theory discussed in the first few weeks well, as it is important throughout the rest of the class
Taking it Pass/Fail is a great option. It is a fantastic class but the grading is tougher than most college classes. Take advantage of a great and knowledgeable lecturer and highly qualified TFs. If you have any interest in war or are simply looking for an interesting Gov class take this class. If grades are a concern take it Pass/Fail. Overall a great course.
Every lecture is an adventure. Also, instead of the regular Gov papers that everyone hates, you just do one term paper on a topic of your choice. This course is really fun and I'd recommend it to everyone.
Can be a bit dry sometimes, but the case studies are interesting, especially when you get to more modern stuff like counter-insurgency.
Be ready to do a LOT of memorization. This course reads more like a history course than political science course but the information is interesting. Also, readings are impossible to do on your own so set up a study group early because you will be expected to have read everything for exams.
It's very hard! You won't get as good of a grade as you tend to get in other classes! It's also a lot of work! Midterm, final paper, final.But it's very interesting. Great subject matter, great professor!
It's an excellent class. You learn about broad theories of war and international relations and then get a chance to analyze several modern wars in that framework. I ended up learning a ton about specific wars, especially the Arab-Israeli conflict, and about why wars happen in general.The class is a lot of reading and demanding overall. The grading is also harsh. But it's definitely worth it. One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
This class is really cool, but has a lot of reading. Be prepared to work hard and you will enjoy it.
This was a great class to take P/F as a senior.
Take this course! Prof. Walt is amazing! And all of the TFs are great, but try to get Yuri
I came into this class with high expectations, considering the reviews I'd heard from other students and the ridiculous Q scores. However, I was disappointed by the class. Though the lectures were informative, they were not always engaging. Readings were generally interesting but also long. A good class overall, but in my opinion, not one of the best classes at Harvard as many people have previously said.
