If you're looking for a good introduction to political theory and to satisfy the Gov department requirement, take Justice.  You'll enjoy it more and you'll learn material at a level you'll remember in the future.  This class forces a depth which is likely to be lost within a few weeks of completing your essays and tests.
You will learn a ton and further develop or even change your thoughts and opinions. I thought I was a utilitarian, but after reading "The Survival Lottery," I was like F*** that!
There's a lot of reading.  The professor and TFs were very helpful and available.
Tough class. But really makes you think.
Try to stay on top of the readings in this course or at least make a plan from the start to do a certain proportionof the readings every week if you lack the time to do all of them.
This is a good course, and it rewards effort.  Far from a walk in the park though.  Be prepared to put in some effort.
Difficult but rewarding.
If you have some background in government and are interested in a wonderful, informative class, take gov 10.
its a great introduction to political thought
For those with experience in political theory, go to a 1000-level course, since you've already dealt with political theory before. For those without experience in political theory, go to a 1000-level course or maybe a Moral Reasoning core; this course is not an introduction because it seems to demand some familiarity with political theory and is full of people who have already taken political theory courses.
If you like to read extremely long, dense, philosophical texts that make your head feel like it is about to explode, this is the course for you!
Your brain will hurt. Especially when your TF responds to your question with another question.
Take this class if you know you like political thought, or if you think you do. But if you're not sure, shop the first few lectures and see how you feel, because if you get stuck halfway through the semester and realize you hate political philosophy, this class will really bother you.
This is a very good course but it is also very difficult for an intro. Approach with caution and with a willingness to do a lot of work.
You should show up to every lecture because not only are they informative but they are engaging and interesting. Go to office hours: this is the best way to gain perspective on very dense readings.
The lectures and reading can be worth while, but that it is a reading intensive class that is demanding.
I really enjoyed the beginning of the class, but toward the end, I got a little bored with the material. It is possible that political theory just wasn't my "thing," but I felt like it was very much the same throughout. Dr. Beerbohm, however, is a GREAT lecturer and always willing to help.
It can be a little dry, and it's a lot of reading, but it can be a good experience in political theory. It's up to you whether or not  you become actively engaged, but it's a better experience if you do.
This course provides a great background for studying political thought.
Lots of reading, but all very interesting.
This class was filled with very dense material taught in a very confusing manner.
lots of reading
Too much reading, the professor goes too fast and talks in such an elevated way that it is very hard to understand him.  Sections aren't very dynamic.
divide up time for readings very  carefully beforehand
As an international student who hasn't read any classical readings in English, I was afraid to take political theory class. But the course is designed for students like me who is not familiar with those classical materials, and this class gives you a lot of opportunites to revise your essay and do not grade your first draft. I took this class as a sophomore, but I highly recommend for freshmen on the grounds that professor is really understanding and caring, and he teaches us how to write political theory paper. There are few courses at Harvard which gives you a sample student essay, and gov 10 is one of that few courses.
If you want to engage with both ancient and modern political thinkers, this is definitely your class.
A very good introduction to political thought, though different from other government courses; requires a good deal of time to do the readings and write the papers.
I would tell future students that this class is a challenging one in terms of the work, the readings, and the way it forces you to question your beliefs in new ways.  I learned a lot from this course and was exposed to so many new ideas and new ways of thinking.  The materials and lectures are extremely engaging, making for an enjoyable class overall.
Be prepared to work hard and develop some critical thinking skills! But it will really change the way that you see the world. This is a great introductory class and will give you a wealth of information that will be useful for subsequent political theory classes.
Some of the topics in the class can be rather uninteresting but the course in the entirety is very interesting. I feel as though I learned a great bit that will benefit me in my concentration after taking this course.
You should take this class if you want an overview of political theory and are interested in theory. It is very much like philosophy. There is a lot of reading, some of it enjoyable and some more difficult and dense. Interesting lectures and topics. I would recommend it for someone who enjoys the topic but not people who do not enjoy reading, writing, or theory.
As long as you're willing to read it's very interesting and rewarding
The reading is extremely dense and takes a long time to get through
be aware that it's a survey course--I don't think it was the right choice for me.  also, should be renamed democracy 101
There's a lot of reading, but the discussions are definitely fruitful.
Skip the introduction and take a political thought class that you find more interesting.
That is a bit difficult but is well worth it.
thoroughly did not enjoy this class
This is a tough but extremely rewarding the class. The teaching team is so talented and committed to really providing a great experience.
Great professor, interesting and useful material to know, and pretty much completely painless.
The readings are classic and I'm glad I've done them. That being said, the reading load is pretty significant, and I didn't find the lectures that helpful for guiding me through dense and difficult readings. Unless you're really interested in the topic and already have some exposure, I wouldn't take this course unless you're willing to teach yourself all of the material just before the final.
This class is a great way to get to know important political thinkers, although you don't really get to go into too much depth on each one. It is quite theoretical and heady material, although the professor does make an effort to tie it to real life through his thought experiments and interactive lectures. The supplemental readings especially are quite interesting.
This class is hard and the lecture slides are NOT clear or helpful. Make sure you have time to do all the readings prior to lecture because you will be very lost and this will make studying for the final super hard. That said, I really appreciated that we got to rewrite our papers before submitting them. It was really helpful, especially since I am not a native English speaker.
If you are looking to fulfill the government subfield for political theory, take Justice instead. This course is miserable...especially if you are interested in the IR/Security studies aspect of Gov.
Do not think that this is an easy course because it only has two essays and a final. The readings are difficult and they and the essays and final will stretch you. A lot. But if you're prepared for this the rewards will be great. I couldn't find any other course with such a comprehensive syllabus of great thinkers.
This course was very difficult for me. I personally do not enjoy philosophy and would prefer to think in real world manners. This class is solely hypothetical, so if you are like me, I suggest that you prepare yourself for this.
The readings are dense, but the professor and TFs are open and helpful.
I would tell them that Professor Beerbohm is alone the best reason to take this class. His lectures are very interesting, they are worth getting up in the morning for! Also, one of the main focuses on the class is really to get you to improve your writing skills in political theory which is something I found to be very important. The focus in this class is to learn and not the grades.
If you are truly passionate about government and have been for some time, feel free to take this class. Although the number says "10," this class is not for Freshman nor is it for people looking for an enjoyable elective.
This is a good, comprehensive review of political thought. I wasn't THRILLED about this course, but I liked it. It is really philosophy heavy, unlike a lot of government courses here, so be prepared to study philosophy when you take it.
If you don't have a strong interest in political theory, it is very difficult to take this class. Although the modern day examples of applications of the theories we discussed were somewhat interesting, overall the material was not intellectually stimulating and its presentation did not help with that.
This is your opportunity to dive into the political theory realm surrounding yourself with all the great thinkers from Pluto to John Rawls.
Be prepared to stay on top of the reading so that you know what is going on in lecture and in section and how to interpret the ideas and counter them.
I would tell a person to take this class if they are interested in political theory as the class is structured well with a great professor and knowledgeable and adequate teaching fellows.
Be prepared to write and read.
no no no no no no no no no no no no
If you don't do the readings for this course, you will find lectures very hard to follow and not worth going to. Lesson learned - do at least some of the daily readings! And make an effort to reach out to your TF before you begin writing your papers, it helps a lot.
Very thought-provoking course, which helps with understanding the purpose of government in general. Professors and TFs are all very supportive, so do not hesitate to reach out for help.
This course is a great way to dip your feet into political theory and  government in general while concurrently fulfilling a GenEd credit. The essay workload is not too heavy, albeit it involves a lot of reading.
Keep up with readings! there is way too much reading!
This class has a very broad spectrum and a fair amount of reading, but the concepts and thinkers that are covered in the class are not only interesting in themselves but are connected to many other disciplines. This is a great building block for other courses and a good intro into political philosophy.
The class is quite a bit of work in terms of preparing for the assignments, but that's because the readings are all rather lengthy, as to be expected with political theory. But this class doesn't just stop at theory - it also asks questions about applicability that are interesting and important in our world today. Professor Beerbohm is really great - very kind, very understanding, good sense of humor. Honestly one of the nicest professors I've had in my four years and I wish I had gone to more lectures/office hours.
Just make sure that you have enough time; this is time consuming but definitely doable.  Plus, it teaches you to become a MUCH better writer.
This class is great! It presents a good spectrum of political beliefs and the professor provides excellent support.
I would definitely not recommend this class, especially if you are not a freshman!  The assignments aim to teach you how to write, instead of just assessing your writing/arguments.  One paper has a mandatory peer-editing/rewrite process.  The other paper has an "optional" re-write that isn't actually optional because the TFs grade artificially low on the first submission.  Take this course if you want another expos class, with dry subject material.
There are 2 types of people likely to find themselves reading this: those who like political philosophy (5%) and those who just need to fulfill a gen ed or gov requirement (95%). To the 5%: you obviously need to take this class, as it is a comprehensive introduction to the field and serves as a solid foundation. To the 95%: While the subject matter is likely to be fairly un-interesting, it is much less vacuous than alternatives, because it is at least at the level of government (as opposed to Justice, for example, which is just a bunch of nonfalsifiable, instinctive assertions). Also, the class is quite well taught; lectures are clear, papers are well-connected to the course,and the teaching staff is very nice and clearly cares. Also, it IS pretty cool to walk out of a class knowing what all those famous thinkers actually wrote. Oh, and it's not difficult, so harmless.
Be prepared to learn a lot but with a lot of reading.
It's hard work but does a fantastic job of revealing some of the thought-mechanisms that have gone into creating government as we know it today.
Only take Gov 10 if you can't find an easier way to fulfill that Gen Ed requirement or if you really, really enjoy political philosophy.
Be prepared to do a large amount of difficult reading (for an intro class) and to struggle with the first essay.
Do the readings and don't skip lecture. It'll get hard at times, but try your best to do so. Meet up with the professor and make the most out of section.
this course has a lot of reading. the papers are graded pretty harshly.  lectures are awesome and Beerbohm is a great lecturer, just hard to get a good grade.
The teaching staff was clearly very passionate about the subject, but it was a bit difficult to follow at times.  The readings would have been interesting if they weren't so long- it made it very hard to get all of it done.
You get a lot more out of it if you do the reading!! Professor Beerbohm is GREAT and cares so much.   It was very enjoyable.
Be prepared to read some of the most boring and apparently useless works to ever be written; as is the nature of political theory. Beerbohm does a great job and makes a visible effort to be accessible and uses creative ways to keep you interested. At the end of it all, though, it's really only a good class if you are interested in political theory, otherwise it will get old quickly.
Although it was obvious that Professor Beerbohm was very invested in this class, his lectures were hard to follow and glossed over rather than really explaining some of the difficult concepts of the course. If you're a political science whiz, you won't have trouble keeping up. But if you're a student who wants to get a grasp on -- or at least a good introduction to -- some of the most important philosophical texts of the Western canon, this course won't be very satisfying to you.
Professor Beerbohm is a genuine guy. Go to office hours and get to know him. This class is great; I would recommend this class to a friend, especially if they needed an ER Gen Ed or were a Government concentrator.
This class is great and you will learn a lot, but be wary of taking this as a gen-ed course, as it takes a pretty significant amount of time and there are a lot of readings.
Professor Beerbohm redeems this class with his lectures, though it is a really difficult class if you don't appreciate political theory.  It was really difficult to get through the readings and I would advise against taking it if you are just looking for an easy class to fill your ethical reasoning requirement.  Just because it is a low number and technically an intro class does not mean it is easy.
This is a very illuminating course if you put the time into it.
it is not a good course for freshman to take and to then decide if they want to concentrate in government.
While it's very interesting and the topics covered are great, if you're like me and have very little patience for reading assignments, it's not as fun as it could be. Skimming doesn't really work, and if you have no interest in debating philosophical/moral views, that's basically all of the class.
I would tell them that the class isn't very much work until you get to the final, where you will be surprised by its difficulty and feel challenged to do a good job due to the difficulty of the questions and the time constraints.
Eric Beerbohm is a stellar lecturer, and this class encompasses an effective, enjoyable summary of the history of political theory.
This course is interesting to someone who likes the subject matter and is interested in building on some understanding of political theory. Little to no practical application is provided, and much of discussion is ethereal. If you need to learn in concretes DO NOT TAKE.
Professor Beerbohm is a great lecturer and the reading are very interesting.  The lectures aren't worth going to if you haven't read before because they build on the readings and help a lot to understand the readings.  Great class!
Great class. Professor Beerbohm is an amazing professor, he puts a lot into the class and is deeply invested in improving the course and responding to our feedback. This is a difficult course but rewarding and the material is important to know.
This class, if you fully engage, is really unique at Harvard - Professor Beerbohm cares more about his students and teaching than any professor I have ever encountered, and he crafts the syllabus very carefully so that it includes classic political theorists as well as modern-day political writings. The theory isn't super exciting if you're not into that, but - as someone who doesn't enjoy theory - I found the class enjoyable and relatively painless! The assignments aren't difficult because Beerbohm gives you many choices for the essays and he is so accessible.
This class can be a bit overwhelming and repetitive at times, but the instructor is very passionate and does a good job relaying info to students.
Take this course! You ask the coolest questions with the coolest professor!  You will not regret it.
Good class. The requirements are straightforward and the professor is excellent!
A very thought-provoking class that really trains you to become a good reader and thinker. Recommended for anyone who is 1) fond of thinking deeply, 2) fond of logic or debate, or 3) interested in the theoretical underpinnings of government and society. Also, a lot of the ideas and thinkers we read in class will no doubt reoccur often beyond this course (not just academically, but in terms of life/common knowledge).
This is a great exploratory course if you are considering studying political theory.
It's a good class to expose you to political theory.  It wasn't overly difficult, but the readings can be kind of long (but it's also not entirely necessary to do all the readings to do okay on the assignments). Sometimes the way they want you to think about things is a bit hard because it's new and different from what I was used to, but lecture and section is really helpful in tying that all together.
You learn a lot, but at times it is difficult to understand. I would encourage taking it once Professor Beerbohm returns because he is really fantastic. My section was horrible, but that is because my TF was bad.
Please be cautious when taking this course! I was, personally, disappointed by my experience. The course if extremely ambitious in regards to the number of texts that are covered, and ultimately i feel like i gained only a superficial understanding of the ideas covered. The texts have sophisticated and nuanced ideas but i don't feel like i had the adequate guidance to understand those nuances. The weekly "blogs" were, in my opinion, entirely futile. The course was really very promising during reading period, but for me atleast, it was a downhill journey ever since.
Try to keep up with the readings. You'll enjoy this course more if you have some interest in political theory.
A fantastic course even for those who aren't humanities or social science majors.
There is a fair amount of reading for this class that is vital to understanding the lectures. As long as you do the reading, you should be fine.
It is probably the best way to fulfill the Political Theory requirement for GOV. I wouldn't necessarily recommend it as an ER class only because it does require a fair amount of work and most people in the class are GOV, but for GOV concentrators, it's pretty good. I can't say I'm very interested in the subject, but Prof. Beerbohm puts a lot of effort into every lecture, the TF's are awesome, workload is very manageable and you do finish with a decent idea of what some of the classical works are all about.
This class is overall great. However, there are several other options that may be more engaging of a Gov requirement.
This course provides a good introduction to classic and modern theories about democracy. The reading load is not excessive (except on the first day of Hobbes) and lectures are often illuminating.
This is a great class for people who are genuinely interested in political philosophy. If you are not interested in political philosophy, this is not a good class to take.
Its a great class--if you like theory.  I found that theory wasn't for me, so I didn't enjoy it as much.  Keep in mind, though, that the course itself is well taught and Beerbohm is a great guy.
I would tell students that the class is certainly not a lightweight reading course and what it lacks in volume it will make up for in the difficulty of the reading. There are large disparities between what students get out of the course depending how much they put in and procrastinating on the reading is not a viable option.
This is a great class if you want an introduction to political theory/philosophy. I know most people who take it are freshmen or sophomores, and I think that works to give you some foundational knowledge before going farther with government or social studies, or anything. However, I took this class as a junior (government concentrator) and still enjoyed it and found it very helpful. Having taken plenty of government classes by now, this wasn't my first taste of the department or this subject. I had knowledge of readings, authors, and debates from other classes that I connected to the material covered in this class, and that made the class even more rewarding. Although Gov 10 seems, due to its course catalog number, like something you have to take early in your college career, my experience says that you can get a lot out of it anytime.
You get to read the canonical thinkers' texts (Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Plato, Rawls, etc...), and you learn about how their arguments are situated in old and contemporary debates, but sometimes discussion of them gets a little bogged down in esoteric meandering that feels irrelevant/pointless
The professor is fantastic! If you're interested in political theory, this is a great class!
This course requires a lot of reading, but readings are important and worth reading and thinking about.  Make sure to get a good section leader.
You must keep up with the readings if you want to be able to contribute and get the most out of the participation requirement that makes up a fairly significant part of your final grade.
If you like theory and philosophy, you'll enjoy this class. Mostly everyone else will not. It's a tough class that takes the readings very seriously. There is A LOT to read so be prepared for that. It's important to do all of it because the final take home exam is only 3 days and touches on a lot of the readings. Beerbohm kept trying to get more kids to come to lecture- I went to lecture every day and it barely helped so don't worry about that too much. If you're a government concentrator, you probably should take this class because it's important to know the foundations but be prepared for a fairly tough class. Grading-wise it seems to be fair but the material itself is tough.
Lots of philosophy readings...not the easiest to get through but can be extremely rewarding. Lectures have been great/interactive and the questions explored in class are super relevant and engaging.
Though the name of the course suggests that it is an introductory level course, I found that it moved too quickly through too much material to be an effective introduction to political theory.
There is a lot of readings in this class. The lectures are very interesting yet be prepared for every section.
The amount of reading is manageable, but readings are hard and you can't avoid them. Unlike other classes, you need to pay very close attention to the texts in order to really understand an author's argument. Do the readings before lecture and definitely before section.Professor Beerbohm is not a very engaging lecturer, and I found myself struggling to keep focused during lecture.
The lectures are great and the professor structures them really well and put a lot of effort into them. The sections on the other hand are not so great and exciting. Be prepared to be bored for a whole hour.
There are better courses to take than this.
Definitely go to lectures because they make what could be a pretty boring class to be really engaging and fun. Beerbohm is a great speaker and gets everyone involved with his daily thought experiments. Also the readings are tough, but do them. He helps clear everything up in lecture.
Essentially a philosophy course. In this course, you definitely get what you give. It's fairly easy to slip under the radar and skim the readings since there are only two major assignments, but I got so much more out of the weeks that I really took the time to analyze passages and wrestle with their implications. Sometimes this would mean reading an article many times over (which would be okay, because the readings (classic and contemporary) were always really interesting). Also, TAKE GOOD NOTES. The final is a take-home, and it took me ages to finish because I had to reread some things in their entirety. In the end, this course can be somewhat confusing and abstract, but I enjoyed it, and I would recommend it to anyone who is willing to actually put in the time to make it a fulfilling experience. Go to office hours if you can; Professor Beerbohm is so approachable!Also, really try to participate in lecture. It's intimidating, but when no one wants to answer Beerbohm's questions, it can be so sad, because he clearly wants to reach out to us really badly. (!!)
Take it for a good Ethical Reasoning class.  If you don't do your readings, you'll be lost in class. Beerbohm talks quickly and only focuses on his interpretation but if you want to learn, do something else.
Don't take this class if you don't like reading. If you're okay with reading dense political theory, then this course is excellent. Beerbohm's lectures, even when early in the morning, are very engaging, and the workload isn't heavy at all.
good class, everyone should take it
This class takes serious thinking power to get the most out of it. To understand lecture at all (and thus, for it to be remotely interesting) I had to devote all my energy to understanding the readings, which are not insignificant or uncomplicated. However, if you devote your time to really thinking about the material, this class can be eye opening.
The first couple weeks of this course can be tough to get through, but after that, it's a fantastic course.
This course wins the prize for having the best intentions at Harvard. Professor Beerbohm has some extremely creative innovations (live lecture feed, "thought experiment of the day", collaborative online paper markups, etc.), and this is one of the few courses where I've actually used the course website. Also, the professor managed to learn all of our names  thats commitment! That said, lectures were hard to follow and sections were worse than nothing.
I found the class to be dry and boring. However, this is not as much the failing of the course as it was a topic that is not my favorite.
As difficult or lengthy as they might be, keep up with the readings - I'd definitely recommend summarizing them at the end because they can get so intricate. Also, participate!
It was very philosophy heavy, and the written assignments were definitely analytical philosophy papers, not typical essays.
If you don't think you'll enjoy learning about political theory then this class may not be the best for you. If you're open to rigorously reading and arguing about political philosophy then it has a way of becoming enjoyable.
Great intro course for government, Beerbohm is the most passionate teacher I've had in the department.
Lectures would be better if it provided explanations of the material rather than arguments. Section is relatively easy as it is all your own opinion. I would not recommend this class unless you are passionate about political theory. Gov has other courses to satisfy political theory.
Get ready to think!
It's incredibly interesting, but you have to put in the work.
take this class if you are at all interested in political theory, and even if you aren't and would like to try it. Professor Beerbohm's lectures are incredible, engaging and relating classic philosophers to current day issues, like the defense of marriage act and the morality of warfare. However, don't just take this class if you're looking to fulfill a gen ed. it's a lot of work and reading, but if you put in the effort you will get a lot out of it.
BORING, take some other ethical reasoning or Gov theory class with a more experienced professor and teaching staff and a more interesting focus. It seems like the professor and TFs in the class are just being purposefully difficult for no other reason than being difficult, not because they really have a reason or care that students get something out of the class.
This is a really well-taught class, but you have to find the topic interesting to get anything out of it.
This class is a thought-provoking survey of the important thinkers in the history and prehistory of democracy. The readings are fine and the work very manageable. It seems like a pretty painless ethical reasoning class, but can also challenge your preconceived ideologies, as was frequently witnessed in section. Overall, it was a very solid class worth taking.
I'm glad I took it so I can say I've read some of the most important political theory works in history.  Beerbohm was great, and section provided for good discussions for the most part.  It's a great course to take if you're thinking about entering the gov dept.
Be prepared to read
Great course!!
This is a great class that provides an excellent foundation for political theory. The lectures are engaging and the section facilitates discussion and debate.
Excellent teaching staff and compelling material. Sufficiently interesting for an elective and enjoyable as a requirement.
partcicpate
This was an amazing class with an incredible teacher, I would recommend it for anyone even if skeptical about political theory as a subject.  I entered with no desire to get into political theory and left with a love for the subject
This is a great class with a wonderful TF and an enthusiastic professor. If you like to dig deeper and question political practices, this course is for you.
This is one of the best Gov. classes out there. Professor Beerbohm is articulate, considerate, and genuinely cares about his students. The T.F.s are also very knowledgeable and facilitate good dicussions.
We all have our moral intuitions about what institutions and policies are right. This course is all about taking seriously the problem of justifying those intuitions and at times testing them against real life scenarios. If that's something you care about, then this is a great course for you. There's a fair amount of reading, but most of it is interesting and relevant.
This course was really great because it exposed me to the background political theorists
As long as you keep up with most of the reading, which isn't that much anyways you will be fine.
Professor Beerbohm is really coolhe uses a lot of different methods/resources/has interesting ideas that he incorporates into his teaching.  (Ex: TEDs, blog posts, otherminds)
this is a great class, be prepared to read and invest time in the writing assignments. very rewarding but you have to commit. the lectures and sections were awesome, great real life examples and thought experiments
Get Ryan as your section leader! Ryan really cares about this course and made it SUPER accessible. My one regret is not taking this class earlier - especially as a government concentrator. Take this class BEFORE your thesis to understand at the very least how government theory should be articulated and written. Other than that, this class is a great way to gain exposure to some pretty major theoretical works. Beerbohm really cares about his students and wants them to come to office hours - something that is not necessarily the case for the government department all the time. Overall, this class, if you do it correctly, by mere virtue of its writing assignments will teach you how to write better, unpack logic better, and be far more articulate and clear in how you think about democracy and democratic citizenship on the whole - take it!
As a science concentrator taking this course or ER requirement, I found it challenging to think about such nebulous topics often.  That being said, I think that the course pushed me to think in a different way, and therefore I broadened my perspective considerably.
Do the readings.  Your life will be better for it.
Very interesting and enlightening class. Makes you rethink and test the values you have and helps you to build a better grounding and basis for decision making.
You should be a great critical reader.
If you are into purely political theory this course provides a good introduction. However it does not bring it into current context which can leave it feeling a little pointless.
There are less painful ways of fulfilling the political theory requirement for gov. All assignments and exams are take-home, which means very little accountability in doing the readings. While Professor Beerbohm is very enthusiastic about the subject, it does not mean that you will.
As previously mentioned, I would highly recommend having a strong background or interest in political theory. Otherwise, this class will be difficult for you as it does not cater very well to beginners, and there are a lot of readings so you will have to put a significant amount of time in. I enjoy the government department and its classes, as well as the General Education program, but this class was not put together in a way that truly fulfilled my expectations for either.
Be ready to be frustrated reading the material.
Gov 10 is a fine way to get your ER gen-ed. It's fun to dive into some heavyweight thinkers even if the reading load is a heavy at times. The more time you spend with the readings, the more you will get out of both lecture and section. Take-home midterm/final was a great system and accommodating to seniors writing theses.
Awesome class, the best I had at Harvard! If you are interested in political theory, this is THE course to take.
so interesting
Future students should devote enough time to readings. I would ask them to start readings as early as possible and to make notes everytime they read so they won't need to go back.
If you're at all interested in political theory, take the class. The reading load is on the heavy side, but if you find it interesting, you'll enjoy the class.
Be aware that although this is an introductory course, previous experience reading especially difficult philosophical texts and knowledge of how to write good papers are both huge prerequisites for this course. Although Professor Beerbohm is an outstanding lecturer who makes classes personal, engaging, and above all, relevant, much of the lecture relies upon a concrete understanding of the readings - which you might not necessarily have until someone goes over them with you. Also, the reading is VERY heavy. Be prepared to devote at least 6 hours a week to this course, not including papers or take-home exams, which are even more challenging. Take this course if you are interested in political philosophy and are passionate about its modern implications, but if you are looking for a Gen Ed to fulfill Ethical Reasoning and you have no interest in gov, I would not recommend this course.
It only fits to certain mindsets of people.
Professor Beerbohm is fantastic and really helps you learn a lot in this course. As a government junkie, I enjoyed this class and the challenge it presented. For those who aren't well skilled readers and writers in the social sciences, this might pose more of a challenge.
Professor Beerbohm is incredible. He generates such enthusiasm for the material and makes the lectures so engaging and fun. I am very math/science and was desperately searching for an ER my senior spring, and Gov 10 came out of the heavens to deliver me. The material can definitely be dry and challenging (especially for people with very little political background, like myself) but the nature of the assignments were reasonable enough to make it definitely doable (especially since the midterm and the final were take-home exams).
It's a manageable amount of readings, but they can be dense sometimes. Come to section prepared, because the questions asked are not going to be a simple summation, it really goes into the nuts and bolts of the article or book. If you are at all interested in political philosophy take it.
Gov 10 is a nice course for students of social studies and gov to get a little bit more theory. If you like a course that is transparent and rewards you for good work, this is a good course for you. Varied assignments make the course not boring, and readings are tolerable. Great lectures.
Make sure you're into theory/philosophy. If you hate that stuff because "it's not practical" or something, you probably won't be happy here.
You may be cold-called and participation is so important. I wish I would have known that. Lectures are interactive. Professor really cares about his students and takes the time to learn your names.
Gov 10 is a perfect foundation for political thinking and moral philosophy. It engages you to think deeply about issues like the distribution of resources in society, democracy and the duty to vote, flaws of democracy and majoritarianism, benefits and drawbacks of authoritarianism, and more. Professor Beerbohm is such a knowledgeable and approachable professor; he exudes kindness. And most importantly, he encourages so much participation in class via text-based polls, debates, and thought-experiment discussions.
It's a lot of philosophy reading.
This course is not for you unless you have a passion for political theory.
This was the worse class I have taken at the College. I wanted to die every time I went to lecture because it was painful hearing the Prof. talk. He was a nice person, but he was an ineffective lecturer and the slides he provided made it difficult to concentrate on what he was saying.
This course was very interesting. I had never taken a political theory or philosophy class before, and at first it was a little too abstract for me. However, as the course went on it taught me a new way to think about life and government. Although Matt's lectures were sometimes not very engaging, especially when discussing earlier philosophers, he was so nice and eager for feedback. I very much enjoyed the section part of this course because it helped me connect the theories we learned to present day life. You don't have to do all the readings to do well in the course, but overall the workload isn't too heavy either way.
You will get a strong background in political theory of you take this class.
This class is difficult but probably one of the best ways you can fill two requirements with one class (political theory for gov concentrators and ethical reasoning for gen ed requirements). Lecture is very interesting and covers material that you should study at least once in your undergraduate career. The papers test your grip on the material (instead of asking you to focus on your own nuanced theory, which can be very difficult for undergrad students). Section assignments can be surprisingly time consuming and there is a lot of reading each week, but again that is true of most political theory and/or ER classes. There's no midterm, and the final exam comes in three parts (one of which is impossible and the other two, which are very fair, almost easy); I would suggest you write summaries/do the readings throughout the semester so you don't have to play catch up during reading period, which could be overwhelming.
This course is a great introduction to political theory. Professor Landauer and the TFs are really engaging and receptive to feedback. Be prepared to participate in lecture and section. The papers are very manageable and the material is interesting. The reading can be hard to get through at times but you discuss most of what you miss or don't understand in section.
a lot of reading; but its good stuff and important to read at some point in your life
Make sure to stay on top of all of the readings and go to section and lectures.
Section was helpful, material is quite annoying and is not applicable in the slightest. A reasonable Gen Ed, but not that interesting.
If you have any interest in political theory, but aren't trying to devote your whole life to it, definitely shop this! The readings are great, and pretty broad, but it's not too big a time commitment.
It's good, but make sure you really care about the course material.
Do all of the reading and go to office hours
Take it for a good introduction to the field. You won't engage very deeply with the works but it does a good job for introducing them to you before you take more advanced classes in political philosophy.
It has lots of readings, but those readings are well selected and give a wide variety of opinions on a wide variety of topics. The essays are not too much work, so it is definitely a course I would recommend, but I can see how section can make or break this course for you.
Take Gov 10 if you enjoy thinking about issues in political theory with other people. This course raises key questions about different forms of government, so you should be interested in considering the different reasons why certain forms of government are preferable over others.
Although it is pretty reading heavy, it sparks great discussions about theories some people might not give any mind to.
A lot of reading, and the final exam was pretty hard. Essays were graded a bit harshly, I thought. Still, very interesting material. I really enjoyed section.
Professor Landauer is an engaging lecturer, but just try to get as much information about the papers and exams as early as possible. This is a good introductory theory course, but it could benefit from slightly more discussion of how to read theory.
This is a tough class. Take it for the political theory requirement if you need to though, especially if you are an upperclassman. It is doable and you cover a lot of relevant material. Prof. Landauer is pretty good.
A lot of the material can be a little dry but if you really want to learn about political theory it is a good course.
This is really a class where you get what you put into it. If you just show up to lecture and section without doing the readings, you likely won't enjoy the class. However, if you actually do the readings and make an effort to understand their implications for each other and for society at large, you can really develop a good understanding of the evolution of democratic theory.
In this kind of a course, feedback on writing assignments is necessary--but it's not given as much as it should be. Nonetheless, the material is very interesting and important. The material on the final is from the readings and is fair.
The workload is a little daunting, but it is very much worth it for the breadth and depth of political theory you get. Prof. Landauer knows his material very well and keeps the lectures interesting by always asking questions and probing the theories we read. If you're into political or moral philosophy, or just how society should work, this course is a great intro but at the same time it does require you to engage it to learn.
This class is absolutely essential for anyone who is interested in political theory. The teaching is engaging and lecture is always interesting. Section in particular is a lot of fun-- we have valuable discussions about the readings that definitely help clarify the weekly assignments.
This is a good introductory level course.  Due to the amount of the material that you're expected to read, some of the readings are not adequately covered/discussed in lecture/section. Make use of office hours if you want to discuss the material further.
The readings are a bit too much. Does not have a central question guiding the course.
This is a good intro to theory for people without a theory background. The class overall was really good go to lecture!!
Professor Beerbohm often makes intuitive leaps that he expects you to make along with him, which is not the case most of the time. Expect to rely on section for most of your understanding of the thinkers covered in the course, as well as the Internet.
I found this course difficult but rewarding.  Some of the readings are dry and hard to understand but they also constitute some of the most influential intellectual pieces that western civilization has provided.
Material was very difficult to understand and Professor Beerbohm taught as of everyone understood the material. A lot more reading than was expected, a lot of which wasn't covered in enough detail to understand.
Subject is great and TF's were great but would suggest another course
The readings are dense and intense!
Kind of boring and confusing; only take if you really like political philosophy (I thought I did but it turns out I don't)
There are a lot of texts, but if you at least gut them, you'll do fine. This class does a really good job of making you think outside of the classroom. The kind of class where you walk back home thinking, "Oh man, what *are* my thoughts on that?" Really cool, strongly recommend. And I do MCB, so I'm not even a Gov person.
This class is overall pretty average. However, it is not too difficult and you'll learn some interesting information.
With the class comes an extreme amount of reading, so be prepared.
If you don't mind heavy reading, take this class
It's important for any educated civilian to read the philosophers that we do in this class- Hobbes, Plato, Rawls, Rousseau - these are canonical thinkers in the Western political tradition and were highly important/formative in the structuring of our US government. However, keep in mind that sometimes reading philosophy can be dry if you don't like theory. Beerbohm does his best to connect philosophy to politics and daily life via thought experiments, which I found really helpful. The course is really reading-heavy. The assignments are generally interesting and pretty manageable. Like in most philosophy classes at Harvard, the quality of your writing is assessed based on the soundness of your argument and logic.
Professor Beerbohm is a wonderful professor, and this should be a requirement to understand not only the benefits of why we live in a democracy, but the consequences of such, in order to frame lofty ideals such as liberty, equality, justice, democratic visions, etc. in a definitional way. It's great to be able to read and understand the famous political philosophers and interact with their modern counterparts to really think about what we mean when we talk about democracy.
Professor Beerbohm is very enthusiastic about the subject material and that definitely comes across. The material is dense and there is definitely a lot of reading that you want to keep up with so you have to be prepared for that. I would not take this class unless you're really interested in the subject of political philosophy. I took it expecting it to be more of a class related to politics but it really is the theory behind governments. Lastly, the lectures are presented at a very advanced level of speech - while this may sound silly to bring up or even a quality that would be preferable, I just want to mention that for me, someone who did the readings thoroughly, I often struggled to understand what Professor Beerbohm was saying because of his constant use of advanced language/political jargon.
It is engaging, and the assignments were interesting and thought provoking.
This is definitely one of the better ERs. Beerbohm makes the class as entertaining as it can be. Foundational political philosophy can often be dry, and Beerbohm livens it up by bringing up lots of thought experiments and modern political examples to make the subject matter more interesting. Unfortunately Beerbohm is a very confusing lecturer. He makes outlines for each lecture but at the end of each class I felt like I couldn't summarize any of the arguments or points he was trying to make because he often would jump from one abstract concept to the next without wrapping things up. Section however was very constructive and Brian Palameter was a fantastic TF that really made my experience in the class fantastic.
Most painless way to fulfill theory requirement for gov. Material was dry at times though.
amazing class that looks a myriad of diverse philosophers
Some weeks you will have 200 pages of obscure old English to read and other weeks you will have just 50. You don't really need to do all the readings but you will get so much more out of this course if you do. Don't bother reading the original versions of Hobbes and Mill and Rousseau, just download the modern versions from earlymoderntexts.com . This will help you understand the readings much better and you will get them done faster. Also make sure you get Brian or any other good TF because it makes a big difference.
If you're interested in government and like discussion, this is a good class for you. Professor Beerbohm is so nice and really invested in his students academic development, and the TFs are also really masterful on the material. That said, if you're looking for an easy GenEd and don't intend to concentrate in Gov/Social Studies/etc., then maybe this course wouldn't be as engaging for you.
Great class. Do the reading to make the most out of Beerbohm's lectures. Section is at times useful and at times not. Assignments aren't a big deal if you've done the readings.
Beerbohm is brilliant but his lectures are sometimes difficult to follow and a bit dry. My TF was super chill and helpful. To do well on the essays make sure to go to office hours and show the TF you care.
You need to be willing to learn everything yourself because lecture doesn't help much in your understanding of the material. The professor goes far too fast and keep jumping from topic to topic assuming you understand everything.
Fantastic class.You learn a lot about important, basic philosophers that everyone should know.
The Professor is amazing and you get a solid overview of texts and theories everyone should know. Lectures are interesting and informative. Do the readings - you get more out of it that way.
The class is a must for anyone wishing to better understand a political system.
have some experience with philosophy
The course material is not particularly interesting and the explanations of the material is not great.
Beerbohm is a great lecturer and very open to student input and involvement in the course. I appreciate all the unique things he would do with the course, such as election simulations and in-class writing workshops. Ask Beerbohm to Classroom to Table!
If you are like philosophy and just want to further read and debate great philosophical works in a very low-stress environment this class is for you. However, the lectures are all over the place -- I tried my best to pay attention but I always found myself loosing focus within the first half an hour.  The assignments are easy, well-spaced out, and sections are generally good. If you are looking for an easy class with a good syllabus and don't care about the quality of the lectures take gov10. Otherwise, take gov1061 which is a bit heavier on readings but has more interesting lectures!
I have mixed feelings about this course. On one hand, I didn't find it to be terribly engaging or interesting, but on the other hand the texts we read and discuss are seminal and eye opening. So at the end of the day I'm happy I took this course, but I don't think it's for everyone.
This class seems interesting at first and the professor is good at what he does, but the course is just really boring and the exams are the most stressful experiences ever. It's the type of class that usually requires no work except readings, but then you have 24 hours to write two essay about three philosophers each and if you panic, you're screwed. The exams are effective in that they force you to learn some of the material, but because of the span, you really have to go back and find the material and go through it, which is time consuming and annoying. However, there are only essays, no quantitive exams of any sort in this class, so if you can write 2 essays and deal with the 72 hours of hell, this class is pretty easy.
Very frustrating course due to disjointed readings, lecture, and section.  Only take if you are genuinely VERY interested in political theory or you need it for a concentration requirement.
This course has a fair amount of reading although there are few assignments.
do not take this class it is incredibly boring, difficult, and a waste of time
Choose a fun class to do your ethics gen ed and political theory requirement if you're a gov concentrator. This class isn't very difficult but the lectures often were not helpful at all and did nothing to contribute to our understanding of our texts. Literally just the professor giving his opinion on old philosophers. On top of that, you would think you could just not attend lecture because it honestly did not help in writing the papers, but alas, the professor demanded you be there through taking attendance and having your grade depend on that, so welcome to Harvard High.
Not a ton of work, but not particularly interesting.  Beerbohm is a great and brilliant guy, but section was awful.  Lectures assume you truly understand the readings, so don't skimp on them.
Take this course if Beerbohm teaches it.  I feared taking Gov 10 but Beerbohm was incredible.  Also, Brian was a great TF.
If you love philosophy, you will love this class!
I definitely think it's one of the best options for theory classes.  As someone who has taken all of the intro gov classes, this and Gov 20 are definitely the best ones.
It is a great course for a basic understanding of political theory, but there is a lot of reading required.
The class was a lot more theory than I was expecting. Obviously going into a class called introduction to Political Thought, I realized that it was going to be working with a lot of theory, but I guess I expected it to be tied into real events or concrete concepts more often.
This class has a lot of readinggranted, the material is interesting, but excessive nonetheless. The overall structure can feel unorganized at times, and I did not particularly like the take-home midterm and final, but that's just personal preference. If you are interested in Hobbes, Rousseau, Rawls, etc. I would recommend this course; however, know that you get out of this class what you put in, and that goes for grades, too.
Make sure you keep up with the readings every week because they will be discussed in section.
The readings are dry and the syllabus is too ambitious - it aims to pack too many classical thinkers into a semester without giving you sufficient time to fully engage in it (which, in my opinion, is what make those readings great). Section felt like a chore sometimes because people who clearly haven't done the reading feel compelled to make irrelevant comments just for the participation grade, making for an unproductive hour. Professor Beerbohm tries too hard to make this class 'fun' and 'contemporary' with election simulations and constant references to the American election, and I sometimes felt like I was taking a contemporary American politics class rather than an introduction to political philosophy.
Absolutely take this class. Political theory is crucial for broadening your understanding about the function of government and proper relationships amongst human beings.
If you can fulfil gov requirements without taking this course, I would advise you doing that.
This is a really enjoyable class where you will read the works of many of the famous political philosophers. The professor is terrific, and his lectures are insightful. I could not recommend the class enough.
I would tell students to be aware that this class involves a lot of deep thinking and will definitely confuse you at times, but allows you to be a much more informed citizen and critical thinker.
The class was very interesting if you are a more theory, philosophy type of person. However, if you enjoy the more analytical, historical style of government, this class may be difficult for you.
Gov 10 is a lot more thinking and work. Definitely not a throw away class.
I'd recommend it, especially if you're a Gov concentrator trying to decide which aspect of government you want to delve into.
This class was a little harder than I expected and requires quite a bit of thorough reading and comprehension to do well in the class.
Readings always take more time than you think. If you're pressed for time, only the longest reading is discussed in lectures/section.
Very well taught. A great course for freshman, because they give a lot of guidance for the papers. I don't think anyone will have a problem with this course. The only problem might be  that it contains a lot of that fluffy speech that one would expect of a course on philosophy.
Good Gov class, but there're easier ER gen eds from what I've heard.
Pay attention in lecture and especially in section. Do the readings.
You don't need to do close readings to do well in this classjust pay attention in lecture and especially section. Section is where I mastered the material. Take careful notes.
A lot of complex reading.  The kind of class where you have to put a lot into it in order to get something out of it.  If you are unwilling/unable to put in the work, I don't suggest taking it.
This class is an excellent introduction to political theory in a fairly relaxed setting. I had no experience with political theory whatsoever and found myself really enjoying the subject matter. Readings can be fairly long, but they are certainly worthwhile and you will take a lot away from them (the staff does shorten the readings relative to the actual works to help). Professor Beerbohm is a great lecturer who really wants to get to know students and engage the class. It was more difficult to do so this year because the class was so large, but he still walked around the room before lecture asking students about their paper topics, for example, and always encouraged students to visit his office hours.
This is an invaluable class for anyone concentrating in government and an exquisitely interesting one for those outside the concentration.
Please do NOT take this class. You will regret itthe reading requirements are sort of excessive given the nature of the class and the relevance of the lectures.  Beerbohm offers this weird, illogical interpretation of readings in lecture every week that only serves to confuse students and make the class harder than it needs to be.  If you're looking for some taste of government as either a gen-ed or an exposure to the government department initially, take something else or wait for the fall (when you can take Gov 30 or 40 or something else).  Gov 10 is like expos with timed papers.  You'll find yourself having to catch up on readings during very time-constrained exam windows, rushing to re-cover readings you might have done several weeks ago.  It's one of those classes that consistently has you feeling guilty, because the professor seems to think that you have nothing else to do with your time than read political philosophy and think about it in preparation for lecture.  Find another class to take, trust me.
This class is a fantastic introduction to political theory that happens to also count for gened credit, and I was genuinely surprised that more people did not enroll in this course. You'll explore readings from the foundational thinkers of political philosophy~ Plato, Aristotle, Rawls, etc~ and gain a solid understanding of the basic framework of their ideas. This is, however, an introductory course, so if you're looking for more advanced teachings on this subject, or have extensive background in philosophy, consider taking an upper-level class.
I ended up liking this class a lot more than I initially thought I would. The readings are often long and can be dry at times, but they are very interesting and force you to think about the world a little differently. Additionally, we read many works that set up a good foundation to have going forward in my college career, Plato and Hobbes among others, for example
This class is great! I am happy I decided to take it, Professor Beerbohm really tries to engage with the students and the readings we were assigned were all very interesting. If you have never taken political theory courses, this class is a great introduction, and has opened up a field to me that I had no idea about or interest in until after the class.
Take it. You get to read classics, discuss them in contemporary terms and interact in discussions.
Interesting, but if you're a philosophy person, don't expect a philosophy class. We read some of the classics, but they're very applied to modern, concrete situations.
It is a solid class and not a bad one to take if you need to fill the political theory requirement.
Professor Beerbohm is great. I had a freshman seminar on political theory that turned me off of the subject, but Beerbohm brought me back into the fold with his interactive and thought-provoking lectures. I went to his office hours several times and enjoyed them immensely; I recommend anyone to do the same.
The readings may seem extensive but are truly very helpful in getting the most out of this course. Be thankful you don't have to read the entire texts, and focus on the portions the teaching staff highlight. Try to go to office hours, as individual questions always arise during lecture that are best cleared up in one on one conversations.
If you don't enjoy philosophy at all, this may not be your cup of tea, but I would generally recommend the class as a great way to knock out a Gen Ed
This class is very interesting and the readings are very good.
It's really really rewarding and teaches you to think about politics from the perspective of both canonical and modern thinkers but it's difficult to do well if you don't keep up with the readings
I suppose if you keep up with the readings and take/keep good notes, this class is somewhat harmless. Outside of that, I was unhappy with my experience in the class though many were happy with theirs. A nice and kind TF would have been nice. On the whole, if you are not into political theory, I suggest another Ethical Reasoning class - literally, any other.
Although the class requires a lot of reading, they are very fascinating if you are interested in government, history, or philosophy. Professor Beerbohm is excellent.
Professor Beerbohm is an incredible teacher and lecturer. GOV10 is a wonderful introduction to the concentration, and I hope more people take interest in political theory.
great class. don't heed the comments written by cowardly freshmen. reading isnt much at at all, and if you're interested in political philosophy you will enjoy this class.
When you read, say Hobbes, you don't just read Hobbes but also read contemporary papers related to the old theories. This mixing of contemporary thought and old theories makes for a great reading list.
Do the readings
Definitely take this class if you have any interest in gov or politics. Theory sounds boring, but Prof Beerbohm is great at keeping it lively, interesting, and very relevant to the present day. Trust me, all the dead white guys have surprisingly important and far seeing things to say. TFs are great too, and the class is pretty easy overall. I highly recommend this course. I found it to be much better than I expected and its a great way to get some theory without going off the deep end.
This course is a fantastic ethical reasoning gen ed and is a great entryway course if you are interested in concentrating in government.
This course is definitely worth taking if you want to understand the intellectual foundations for our current government and the flaws of those foundations. It is also a pleasure to get to read such great authors--Mill, Rousseau, Plato--in a fairly laid-back environment. Professor Beerbohm is also absolutely fantastic. A great lecturer and guy, this class is worth taking just to get to know him.
Don't be afraid to ask questions to TF
TAKE THIS CLASS! It is a fantastic introduction to political theory and political philosophy, and it really makes you challenge your assumptions and the way you think about things. Plus, Beerbohm is one of the most incredible, thoughtful, caring, and brilliant professors I've ever met and is a fantastic teacher to boot.
The course is awesome. The professor and teaching staff are amazing. Its a great introduction to political theory. It is also a unique perspective on political theory, so even theory buffs can enjoy this course (I did). The lectures are incredible and never waste your time. The readings are reasonable and pointed.
This class is a good way to knock out the theory requirement for gov / ethical reasoning gen ed / secondary field req. The grading is a bit tough but the material is super interesting.
I think is a foundational course that all Harvard students should take.
Great introductory class to political philosophy - interesting readings, enthusiastic professor.
It was dry material but still interesting. A lot of reading.
It is quite interesting.
As long as you keep up with the readings, Beerbohm makes this class a very memorable one.
