This is a really awesome class that gives you a chance to discuss some of the most interesting and foundational aspects of American history and government in a seminar setting with a Professor who really knows his stuff.
Professor Carpenter is fantastic; be sure to go to his office hours! Also, it is best to start thinking about the final paper sooner rather than later. I strongly recommend this course to anyone who is interested in American history and wants to read some really terrific texts.
The professor knows an outstanding amount about this time period and subject - the discussions in class are fun, engaging, and extremely thought provoking.  I could not recommend it more.
The Course requires a lot of time to perform well! Stay ahead on the readings and discussion will flow naturally.
The class is interesting, and discussions can be enlightening. Writing a big paper can be scary for some, however.
The class is amazing. However, you should not take this class if you are not a self starter. If you are not motivated and do not start early you may find yourself with 25 pages to write and only 4 weeks to go.
Prepare for a lot of reading, but it's worth it. All the readings tie in really well with each class, and each week is on something that's incredibly interesting, but something that I'd never think to study. Prof. Carpenter knows his topic more than any other professor I've had, and he's incredibly helpful and approachable with any questions. Would absolutely recommend.
I would highly recommend this class to anyone who is interested in how our government and its institutions came to be what they are today.  As the title suggests, the course traces the birth of various American institutions, from the postal service to the mass party, from colonial times up until the Civil War.  The materials we read were very interesting and a good mix of primary and secondary sources.  Professor Carpenter is a fantastic professor and never failed to facilitate a fascinating and informative discussion.  Two hours of class rarely seemed like enough.  In terms of work, there are a lot of readings (accompanies by weekly responses to be shared with the class), and those are important to stay on top of.  The mini-papers are zero-pressure.  The final, however, is a doozy.  At 50% of your grade, it's super important, but it is also interesting.  All in all, I would recommend this class.
