This class is different than others, in that it forces one to construct larger narratives about history and politics. Many other classes focus on microhistories that do not encompass as a long a time and as many countries as this course does. Being able to think in these general terms is certainly valuable, and I am glad that I had the opportunity to do so.
The course is a great way to learn about government and European history at the same time.
The lectures are engaging and link past historical events to present conflicts throughout the world.  You will leave the course with a greater understanding of European history and with a set of tools for thinking about and addressing international conflict(s).
The class is chill. The lectures aren't the most life giving. But section is amazing. The assignments are really fair and the essays are delightful.
Prof. Hall was a very structured, well-informed and engaging lecturer. Although we usually did not have any discussions in the lecture it was very easy to follow his thoughts due to the great structure. That allowed engaging in the subject if you are interested in the material at all. The comparative, 'macro' perspective allowed great insights! Although I feel sometimes it kind of came to its limits (and was a little superficial/oversimplifying bc of that), it was overall really well suited in order to really get deep insights into democratic developments in Europe in the preceding centuries. Dominika was an awesome section leader! Very funny, insightful, intelligent and thought provoking. She knew the material very well and really led the group. Sometimes it would have been nice if she kept the discussion a little bit more on track, so that the sections would prove more useful for the exam. She tried doing that in the end of the semester a little more and I really liked the discussion that evolved.
Very easy, felt like an intro class
This is a great modern European history class from a comparative politics perspective. It has changed the way I think both about modern history and contemporary American politics. Peter Hall is great, get to know him!
A good class with an interesting professor, but covers a lot of material at a pretty high level. Great for the European political enthusiast, but not so ideal for anyone without at least some understanding of Europe's history. Readings and assignments are manageable either way, but I definitely felt like at times the course was way over my head--even having done all of the required course work.
This class only has three papers, all of which are very hard and very rewarding. I took this class as a Gen Ed and it definitely was not the easiest Gen Ed, but I ended up learning a fair amount and I would recommend it.
The exams for this course are impossible. They also do not really test knowledge of the course material. You will likely not get an A or an A- in this course even if you try really hard.
loved this class, lectures were great, papers were graded fairly, great government course
Interesting topics and themes, but a bit too fast-paced and general
Professor Hall is a great lecturer, and I very much enjoyed the content of the class and the readings. I looked forward to going to lecture. The section was a great supplement.
Although the topics covered by the course are quite interesting, the readings are unmanageable. Not only are there too many, but they are also difficult to read and challenging to understand. You can get away with not doing some of them, but it makes it nearly impossible to contribute anything to section or to be able to write the papers well. The paper topics are very comprehensive.
Prof. Hall is an amazing professor, not just in lecture but also in office hours where he is always happy to offer advice and insights. This course is also great for anyone interested in an overview of European politics from its beginnings to modern day. Would highly recommend!
This course is very boring. You learn a lot of information in this course, however, during the first couple of weeks, it is hard to sit through lecture. Chase is a great TF! He really makes sure you understand the information.
The take home exams are not easy. Students should understand the readings very well
The readings are very very dry, and very tedious. In the end, you do end up learning a lot, however, there were a lot of readings, and most of them were extremely specific about different times in history. It helps if you are already accustomed to European history.
Lectures are amazing, tf is lovely, watch out for the readings and midterms.
Extremely well organized, lectures are so easy to take notes on because they are so well structured.  I learned a lot and thought it was really interesting.  Not too much reading, and its very useful for the papers.  Also great because the papers require no outside research.
A decent class overall. Lectures are not very entertaining, section is better, and the essays are poorly written and harshly graded. That being said, somewhat interesting subject matter
As far as Ged Ed courses go, Gov 1171: The Making of Modern Politics is not a bad option. Peter Hall is an earnest and hard-working professor who tries to make the course interesting for a wide audience (even with bad puns). The section experience was not impressive, perhaps partly due to lack of student interest, but also to my TF's inability to effectively facilitate discussion. The topic is interesting, to be sure, and the work is not too bad (3 essays). Overall: good but not amazing.
Like many Gov classes, be prepared to read a good amount, with some readings being more interesting than others. Section will likely make or break the class (I thoroughly enjoyed section though). Paper topics are incredibly broad, but they have been graded fairly
Be sure you do the readings- it will come back to bite you if you do not.
This is probably more of a history class than a pure government class, so gov majors may not be too interested. The workload is manageable, however, and Professor Hall is really enthusiastic about the topic. Lectures are interesting, though you could look up a lot of the information online. Section was very helpful; the teaching staff was very strong.
Be sure to do all the readings, even if it is just to get the main points.  And you MUST go to lecture.  It makes sifting through the information so much easier and lecture really makes the course whole and make sense.
Lectures are very interesting and Professor Hall is very enthusiastic. There are three essays, which are kind of time-consuming, but otherwise the workload is not too heavy.
Section leaders matter a lot. Michael Lesley was excellent and made some of the course material really engaging.
While 3 essays may seem easy, the amount of preparation and work need to answer such monstrous questions in 2500 words is a lot to deal with, especially for one classified as a Gen Ed. There are definitely better classes on democracy and European history, I would pass on this one for sure
This class emphasizes history more than political theory. Professor Hall is a great lecturer, and the readings are very interesting.
I enjoyed expanding on the history I had learned from AP European History in high school. However, while the class was informative, some of the readings weren't very helpful, and the paper prompts were often either vague or frustrating. I think that if Professor Hall revamps the syllabus, the class will get a lot better.
If you are looking for an excellent course on European history, with a focus on democratization, take this course. I loved Professor Hall's lectures because they were clear, insightful, and packed with content -- his slides are just visual aides, so it's super important to show up for lecture. I learned a lot, even though I just finished taking a European history course over the summer, because Professor Hall's perspective on the various revolutions and political economic changes in France, Great Britain, Germany, and Italy were very interesting and useful to learn. The only thing that bothered me a little were the assignments - the essay question was often very difficult to answer given the page limit.
Strongly recommended to everyone interested in European history or democratization.
This class is far more beneficial to student who already have some grounding in political science and want to examine theories of state-building in Europe than to students who are investigating these topics for the first time.
Professor Hall is a great lecturer, and the course is challenging but not unfairly difficult. Take it if you're at all interested in learning more about European history and/or European federalism.
The lectures were mostly interesting and engaging. I would say the same for the reading at the beginning of the course, but it became quite technical toward the end. Section was often constructive too. However, I felt that I learned very little from writing the essays and I can't say I enjoyed the process either. That said, this class is a decent way to fulfill the GenEd.
Take this class. Professor Hall is a superstar- first day of class, some mishap with the laptop meant that he had to present off the cuff. Best lecture I've seen at Harvard. Political economy buffs will especially adore this.
This is not a bad gen ed class, but it's best taken in a semester that allows for more time. I took this in a semester with a major extra curricular, an especially demanding concentration requirement, and another gen ed with heavy reading and found myself pressed for time frequently. But if you still need the requirement it fills and you don't anticipate scheduling issue, it's definitely worth shopping/taking.
A fascinating period in history, approached from a relevant and thought-provoking angle.  The course is more expository than rigorous, but it's a good Gen Ed course if you're interested in history, politics, and social theory.
Really interesting class that covers history of democratization in Europe comprehensively, learnt a lot.
Extremely worthwhile.  Tremendous course and learned a lot- took no other courses in history prior to this one.  Taught me a lot about the world and was extremely relevant to the political events that took place during the course.
This class is extremely difficult. Lecture is terrific, but the essays are, as Professor Hall promises, impossible, which makes the course overall frustrating. The lectures and the essays seem disjointed, and the essays are based almost entirely on the readings, which are also very long and very dense. Professor Hall is terrific, but skip this.
This course is fascinating. I never took AP European History, and learned so much in this course. Charlotte is an awesome as a TF - she really challenges you and pushes you to refine your ideas, and with that is harsher in grading than the other TFs. It's a great course - take it if you need a Gov comparative politics requirement!
If you've never taken AP European History or never read a single book on Europe, you may find this course somewhat interesting, otherwise it's quite boring as it only covers the basics. It also is a bit frustrating at times as it hasn't really decided whether it wants to be a case-studies course (with some readings on obscure presidents of Third Republic France in the late 1800s), or a broader-brushstroke, more theoretical course (it introduces a few important theoretical frameworks but glosses over them too quickly, not allowing students to absorb them). My section experience was quite drab, but Professor Hall is a very engaging lecturer, so lectures were enjoyable.
Great class. Only 3 assignments, which are challenging, but since there are only 3 you can really do a good job on them. Quality > quantity. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard
Great class if you enjoy history and political theory.
If you think that all government class lectures are boring-this one will definitely change your mind!
Quite a bit of reading and the papers are difficult. Peter Hall's lectures are great though!
There's a lot of reading that will need to be done in this course
This course suffered from a damaging and frustrating lack of cohesion and focus. Materials veered wildly between seminal papers in political science and historical context with little synthesis between the two. Paper prompts were too broad and too demanding based on the course's unrealistic expectations word limits. Though Prof. Hall's teaching was excellent, it did not meet the demands that the materials required. I would recommend you take this course if and only if you have a strong background in European history and are prepared to bridge these gaps on your own.
Not easy but learned a lot, would recommend to those interested in Western European history. Must spend time on the papers!
Get a chance to hear Peter Hall, an incredible professor and lecturer, discuss some of the most important and compelling issues of the modern era, such as democratization, industrialization, the rise of authoritarianism, and modern international difficulties of the EU.
Course gives a good and broad introduction to both Western history and government. Many of the readings are well-acclaimed (and rightfully so) and seminal in their respective fields.The central pitfall of the course was the lack of historical background it provided. One cannot reasonably write a critical essay about the various viewpoints (advanced by authors in the readings) if he has no grasp of the underlying historical fact. There was inadequate supplementation of the readings in this respect (or any presentations of history were too skewed). But otherwise, this course was very fun and certainly fits the billing of providing a general education.
The readings can be very difficult and the papers mind bogglingly difficult to write, but the teaching staff understands this.  In general, the lectures are very informative, and the course material just seems too important to be neglected during the undergraduate years.
Interesting class with a great professor. the essay questions are hard and there is a substantial amount of reading. go to the lectures as they are very helpful.
