The course material is interesting but the lectures can be a bit didactic.
that assignments are graded difficultly and there was no real guidance from the teaching staff
It covers a wide breadth of semi-related concepts.
Do not take this course if Emily Hickey is the section leader.
Painless way to fill a requirement
The concepts in this class are interesting to learn about.
It is graded easily and is interesting enough.  Take it if you want a painless class in your courseload.
This is an important and interesting class -- a comprehensive introduction to the real, *quantitative*, study of public opinion and politics. Everyone should learn this stuff. Plus, it's pretty easy.
This course was one of the best government classes I've taken at Harvard. The subject matter was fascinating, and the lectures were always very interesting.  Whereas courses that tackle such abstract concepts as democratic citizenship often lack substance, this course was full of meaningful content up until the very end.  I highly recommend Gov 1362.
It's a relatively painless way to knock out a government requirement, and somewhat more interesting if polling, voting trends and elective politics is your thing. There's a bit of a disconnect between the reading and lectures, but you can get by relatively well as long as you go to lecture.
na
Very interesting look at modern-day politics.
I really enjoyed it -- it was fascinating, especially in terms of the presidential primaries that happened to correspond with the course.
I think that this course, all things considered, was relatively easy.  The lectures, though very clear, could be somewhat boring when it felt like the professor was simply embellishing the slides that she had prepared.  That being said, a lot of the material generated some very interesting discussions about the current state of US politics, which is always fun to discuss.
Assignments are straightforward, concepts are intuitive.
Interesting material and great lecturer.
The class, if you are a gov concentrator, is probably the most enjoyable and legitimate way to fulfill the American politics requirement. Take it!
The course covers interesting subject matter; if you think you'd be interested, I'd recommend taking a look.
Good class that doesn't require that much work.
This class is really interesting, well taught and carefully put together, and gets into a complex and profound subject in a way that isn't intimidating at all. It's a nice meld of theory and empiricism, also -- making sure we consider the facts as well as their normative consequences and the idea of the ideal democratic citizen. I was really happy I took it, and I know I learned a lot about these topics.
This class is great!  Sometimes the lectures can get boring, but it's easy to just copy down the lecture notes and learn from them.  Grading is fair/easy and assignments are short and sweet.
Fantastic course. Professor Gay is incredible and lecture/readings are always interesting. Section was extremely helpful and interesting - Miya is great! Definitely take this class.
Material would be cool for one lecture but gets repetitive very quickly. Midterm graded very harshly (class average was in the mid-70s)
This is a great class if you're interested in the topic. Prof. Gay is a good lecturer, and her lectures are well-laid out and easy to follow. Some of the things seem common-sensical, but you get to see the proof behind the logic. Miya, the TF, is also great. Also know that the readings tend to be fairly quantitative (authors state their theory and then talk about the experiment and a bunch of statistical analysis they've done to prove it).
Taking this class was the worst decision I ever made at Harvard. I took it as a senior for an elective because the material seemed interesting and the Q ratings were fair. The grading was the worst I have ever encountered. Expectations were incredibly unclear and grades were low across the board. The mean for the midterm was a 75 and it was not curved. Grades were given based on very specific arbitrary standards for what were often presented as open-ended, very general questions.
This was the best gov class I have taken at Harvard. Professor Gay is a wonderful lecturer and teaches with detailed, well-organized lecture slides.
Only take it as a requirement and if you don't have any other options
Only take this class if you are REALLY interested in public opinion.
This is a good class. The material is a bit dry just due to its nature at some points, but it was full of lots of good information.
extremely interesting and relevant course to anyone who plans on being an American citizen.
Overall, this is an excellent class particularly if you are interested in understanding political participation (or the lack thereof) within the American democratic system. Be sure to keep up with the readings and the various terms in class.
This class will make you much more knowledgeable about American politics. Annoyingly more knowledgeable, actually, from the perspective of friends and relatives who will want to hold on to comfortable myths they've been told about the way politics works. But you should become informed about the way things actually work.
I recommend this class!
