Just an awesome experience
If you're interested in Presidential power, take this course! Professor Diaz is an amazing lecturer and I learned a lot and found the course to be highly rewarding. However, key notes--your grade is going to be determined in large part by essay writing, which you should be strong at. Furthermore, *do not* do all of the readings (or even most) because your grade will not be determined by that and you'll be wasting your time. Instead, skim the major readings (books), and then form a study group early on and divide up the other readings so that together you can form answers to the Identification Questions used on midterms and exams.
Terrific!
This was my absolute favorite class of the term.  I highly recommend it for students interested in aspects of American executive governance and the presidency in general.  The professor delivers engaging lectures and the section experience is fantastic.  You will learn a great deal about American government and come away from the course with a newfound understanding of the presidency, if you put in enough effort.  Very intellectually fulfilling.
This class is great, probably one of the best government classes at Harvard! Take it!
Although there was an attempt to make the class more discussion-based, discussion typically seemed more like a pop quiz of the previous night's readings rather than a stimulating and analytical engagement with the texts and subject at hand.
If you don't like being in a lecture where you are called upon, then I would stay away from this class.Cold calling, while not regular, occurred. For a shy student like myself, this always made me uncomfortable.
You have to make sure you do well on the few graded assignments.
Difficult at times, but you will learn a lot.
The sections leaders are great, so learning in section is easy, but the lectures are always very exciting and interesting.
Low work way to take a course on the presidency, and Carlos is great!
Reading load varies, but is manageable. Participation is very important. Paper topics are not difficult and can be entertaining.
It gives you a whole new perspective on the power and weakness of the presidency.
Easy, fun intro to presidential power.
I would tell them that the course really requires you to be engaged in the readings.
Carlos is a great lecturer and cares about knowing his students. If you're interested in the Presidency I would take it. However, if you're just casually interested in the material or Government I don't think you're going to get that much out of it in the end. You will learn a lot about Presidential theory, but in a very theoretical way and focusing a lot on the same issues over and over again.
Prof. Diaz makes the class. He is really approachable and friendly - the class structure gives you an opportunity to get to know a professor in ways that other government classes don't. The assignments can be a bit tedious though.
This is a great class - interesting subject matter, very fun, great teaching staff. It's very easy, especially if you do the readings.
Not your typical case by case class on presidential power.
Carlos is a great guy that know so much about the material that he is teaching. He also challenges you to make better arguments with better use of sources. I feel that I learned how to craft strong arguments through this class and it really introduced a new perspective on the presidency that I did have before.
It's an interesting class, looking at the idea of presidential power from many different angles. If that doesn't sound interesting, you won't like it.
This course is great. The lectures are captivating and filled with participation and discussion. Section is also really interesting. Readings are quite heavy, but manageable although you may find yourself having to catch up every once in a while.
I would highly recommend this class!! It's a mid-size lecture which provides the perfect environment for a lot of interesting in-class discussions. Professor Diaz is a wonderful professor. His lectures are easy to follow. Profesor Diaz is dedicated to getting to know his students-go to his office hours! He's always open to feedback.
Really, really great class. I'd say you'd learn more than in the popular "Presidency" class offered in the fall.
Do all the readings, they're worth it! Speak up in class to engender more discussion, and visit Carlos' office hours.
As always--do the reading, go/utilize office hours, talk with a purpose in discussions
Very intellectually engaging reading material, but it's too much reading in general. Very voluminous texts and a handful of books to read every week.
The course is really informative. If you enjoy American history and the uses and abuses of power, I would highly suggest it.
Watch out for cold-calling...
TAKE THIS COURSE. Professor Diaz is an outstanding professor. He gives effective lectures and is always more than willing to meet outside of class. You do not need to take The American Presidency to take this course. Also, this course is not the same as The American Presidency. The classes focus on different aspects of the presidency. The American Presidency focused on multiple aspects of the American presidency while Presidential Power focuses only on presidential power. This class is both a great introduction and in depth of analysis of presidential power.
The structure of this class as a mid-sized lecture with a lot of in-class discussion was incredibly stimulating.  We always had the chance to comment on and go deep into the readings and during class, I was often on the edge of my chair.  Furthermore, Professor Diaz always prepares interesting lectures that are not difficult to follow.  He is dedicated to getting student feedback and meeting his students which was also really unique for a lecture class.
Great class if you like participating/debating in larger classes. Not taught in a lecture format though. Also, slightly conservative bent
The class is really interesting because of depth to which it looks into the presidency.  There's something to please everyone in the material the class covers because of the various types of material we look at and the contrasting theories.  It pushed me to look at all the president accomplishes in a new light and had me applying what I learned in class to current events.  Great class.
If you want to learn a framework for analyzing one of the most important current event aspects of today take this class. The professor is incredible and is incredibly available for any questions or discussions you wish to have.
it's really good and really well taught. but be prepared to work hard, read a lot, and research a lot. It's not easy. and it's not easily graded
Lectures are held in a discussion format that sometimes provide illuminating insight into issues of presidential power, but oftentimes, material seems self-evident and simplistic; focusing on presidential power for the entire semester seems to be too repetitive; should focus on other actors in the White House and how they affect presidential power (i.e. First Lady, Secretary of State, Homeland Security, etc.)
Because this is a higher level Gov class with students who are deeply interested and knowledgeable about the subject matter, I'd recommend you only take this class if you feel confident in your ability to keep up.
Good course, not too heavy a workload, and probably worth taking if you're interested in the presidency.
I don't feel like I learned enough.  There were too many lectures in which carlos went over the readings or had class discussions.  I would rather he just lectured more.
This is a very interactive, engaging and thought-provoking look at the powers of the American president. You will have plenty of opportunities to participate in the class discussion, and you'll get to write two interesting short papers (4-5 pp.) and apply the concepts.
Amazing class, take it . Get to know Prof. Diaz, he is amazing and extremely helpful.
This is a great class, lectures are great and interesting, and this class gives you the ability to assess presidential power and weakness with a well informed argument, facts, and strong quantitative and qualitative evidence
make sure to include counterargument in your essays, and make sure to answer the asked question fully.
The class may seem interesting in material (and indeed it can be at times), but the readings and lectures (and sections, to be honest) are not worth the time.
This is a great class. Prof Diaz is an excellent teacher.  I strongly suggest that students take this class. The material is presented in a very engaging fashion.
It was pretty boring and I thought Diaz was really full of himself. I've only ever not recommended 2 classes here, and this is one of them
I am now much better prepared to run for president of the United States. Thank you Carlos and Aaron!
Prof Diaz is great! I'd take Prof. Porter's Intro to the Presidency first! Having Aaron as your TF is an absolute MUST.
This is a fantastic class! Engaging and discussion based lectures. You will not be an anonymous face, Diaz will know your name. This can lead to some cold calling in class so make sure to do the readings! Overall great class, learned a lot about presidential power!
Great lectures and material, but you have to do the readings and go to class.
Great class. Prof Diaz has made a class very different than a lot of gov classes in that it's a medium sized lecture that's grounded in class discussion. He knows all of us by name and really wants to get to know us. Debating the uses and abuses of presidential power has been so interesting. It will have you read some (really interesting) theories, learn the tools presidents can use, and then analyze the Bush (and Obama a bit) administrations using everything learned. Overall very good experience.
This is a wonderful class which makes you think critically about the role of the President in the United States and the tools he/she has to exercise the powers of the Executive Office.
There was a surprising focus on the four faces of presidential power, which was very different from the first part of the course.
This is probably the most interesting class I've taken in my Harvard career.
It's a great class, but be prepared for a bit of a bias among the student body, really tough paper assignments, and some frustration. But also expect some awesome information, and we even got to skype with Alberto Gonzales, the man who wrote the torture memos after 9/11 on Bush's legal council and he's now attorney general.
This class is really fun, section can be annoying, and the papers are difficult. However, Professor Diaz is really cool and loves his students.
This class was very interesting. One of my favorite gov classes so far-- especially because it's so relevant to everyday life. Prof Diaz rocks. Aaron is THE BEST. Take it!!
This course offers a great perspective into presidential power and the workings of the presidency. I really appreciated the nonpartisan and almost apolitical nature of the course. It was very interesting to look at what the president can do versus what the president should do, and I would recommend this course to anyone interested in looking at the mechanisms of the presidency and executive branch more closely.
Its a great class that covers interesting material, and if Aaron Byrd is still t.f.ing it then its worth taking just because of that
This course is different than Professor Porter's on the same subject, and takes a more systematic approach to examining the specific sources of presidential power.
Great class, but much harder than I expected
This is an excellent course if you are interested in considering the use of formal and informal powers afforded to the President.  Generally, it isn't a difficult course, and the reading isn't too tough to get through.  Make sure you are always thinking about the broader implications of ideas in the course, as this course hinges on your understanding of the theories presented in big sections of the class.  The sectioned component of the course is great, and the TFs are very knowledgable.  Pay attention in lecture, and make sure to stay engaged.  You will like it on the whole!
The participation in lecture aspect can be really intimidating
This is a good course to learn more of the details about how a president rules. It does give you some broad frameworks within which to understand the use of presidential power. Professor Diaz lectures well and makes an effort to connect with his students.
Lectures weren't that engaging. Sections were awesome with Aaron. Papers and exams were relatively fair. My favorite part of the course was the final exam - it was fun, mostly because I felt like it gave me a really good opportunity to reflect on everything that I had learned. I felt really good about how prepared I was for the exam. This is what final exams are supposed to be - a test of your ability to recognize and synthesize themes of the course. I did learn a lot of basic information about the presidency from this course.
Please don't take this course based on the first couple of lectures...it is prefaced misleadingly as...well...interesting. You'll get shown a great little video, but don't get suckered in: the majority of this course will be spent doing nothing in pointless lectures, reading boring CRS reports about presidential memoranda or analyzing 600 pages of US budget data. I am not being hyperbolic. Before taking this course please please please -- I cannot exhort you enough --- talk to someone who took it Spring '12. We'll set you straight.
You will learn a lot about the executive office and will come out with a much better understanding of the arguments for/against a strong president.
Good readings, papers are very difficult, midterm/final arent too bad.
I hate reading about history and memorizing facts and I loved this class. It was interactive and took brief snippets of history and expanded on it by placing it into the world today and testing it in terms of what the world is rather than how is used to be.
Carlos is a great professor and really generates involvement in class. Be wary of cold calls and difficult assignments but I would strongly recommend this class for Gov concentrators, secondaries and those interested in the presidency.
This is easily one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard.  As long as you keep up with the readings, you will come away with so much.
Ask the lecturer before the semester starts what the papers will be like. This term, one of the short writing assignments was actually a research paper that required hours of research.
Diaz's lecture are fine. There were three or four students that dominated lecture discussions, most of whom were interrupted by Diaz when trying to speak. Take it if you want to learn more about presidential power, but I wouldn't put this course on a bucket list before graduation by any means.
If you are willing to speak up in lectures, definitely take this course!
Don't be fooled by the awesomeness of the introductory video for this class. Doesn't live up to the awesomeness of Presidential Power.
it really helped complicate my view of the presidency and the tools available to the president (but complicate in a good way). the prof is amazing, and lectures are super interesting! with the essays, it's definitely worth starting way in advance.
Work really hard on the papers and make sure teaching staff agrees with your thesis.
This class is fun. It generally stays in the realm of theory and it encourages all the deep debates that everyone loves to have about the Presidency. At the same time though, the readings and assignments do require time and thought if you want to understand them. If you want to learn more about the Presidency and explore the theories that help define it, this is a excellent and fun class for you.
great class. very useful and interesting. professor diaz is great and so are the section leaders.
Prof. Diaz is a wonderful professor and an excellent lecturer, and the course subject is very interesting. While I definitely recommend the course, be prepared for some difficult paper assignments that take more time than you expect.
This LOOKED like it was going to be a really cool class...and then it turned out to be mostly uninteresting (I kept waiting for the exciting discussions of presidential power to come) and kind of academically trivial (after the discussions of big theories, we mostly trudged through the professor's own academic work that seemed pretty silly). This course never really went anywhere--I'm not sure what I'm taking away from it, the paper assignments were both pointless and excruciating (the independent research paper was dreadful) and I just don't feel academically enriched for having taken this course. I'm a Gov concentrator and love Gov classes, but this one let me down.
The class is really interesting. You may not really like all of the assignments going through it, but you definitely walk away with a feeling of having learned quite a lot. Diaz-Rosillo is pretty great.
This is a very interesting course. However, I recommend having a knowledge of American politics and the presidency before coming in. Make sure to participate in lecture because it is a part of your grade and do the readings!
Lectures are very engaging and the reading give you just enough background without being too overwhelming. The subject matter seems to be something that everyone knows a little about, but it's remarkable how much there is to learn on this subject and it's very important information for anyone who cares to be an active, educated citizen.
The class is interesting and CEDR is a great guy. It really makes you see presidential power in a new light. I would recommend it to anybody interested in american government or executive power in general.
This class will definitely provide you with new tools to more objectively analyze the presidency. The readings are worthwhile and great for political junkies. Lectures are engaging because Professor Daz encourages class participation - a nice break from typical lecture classes.
Professor Diaz is great - very personable, but has a great understanding of the subject matter.  Also, I appreciate the fact that he asked for our feedback on his own work, made me feel validated.
One of the more interesting courses I've taken at Harvard. Lively debates happen in section and in lecture. Exams/papers are challenging but fair.
This course is interesting and Prof. Diaz is an effective lecturer. Section was great! Be warned, however, that the assignments are not always clear and are usually designed to critique or advance Diaz's work without helping you to have a greater understanding of the field as a whole. It is great to have the option of an exam or a paper at the end of the course. The teaching staff is very approachable (and be ready for cold calling, it does happen on occasion).
It's very easy to get excited about this class but I would be very cautious in approaching it. You have to have both a huge comfort in talking and debating in large groups, as well as a deep understanding of US government. I felt that some of the assignments were unfair and that there wasn't equal consideration of students. There are better gov courses to take.
The class is fun but the research paper is absolutely brutal and extremely difficult.
It's a different course than Porter's American Presidency. Fantastic course. Diaz is an incredible professor because he is knowledgeable and clearly cares about his students. Great feedback on midterm and essays. Readings are interesting and not too demanding. Could not recommend this class more.
Take any class with Carlos Diaz that you can, including this one.
Do not expect too much
I really enjoyed taking this course.  Professor Diaz is extremely knowledgable on this subject matter and he is at the helm of new study related to this field. A great course to take as an elective if you're interested in these topics - I learned a ton.
This course presents an interesting view of the presidency in a way that American citizens often do not consider it but one that is important to educating the voter.
Fascinating course! I am thrilled that I took this course before graduating.
