This is my favorite class I have taken at Harvard. If you have an interest in foreign policy or America's role in the world, definitely take this class. If you are an undergraduate, the assignments will stretch you and make you think in a way you haven't thought before. I really enjoyed the readings and assignments. You will learn a lot from the other people in the class as each has a wealth of knowledge and a unique background. Professors Allison and Sanger are experienced, insightful, and willing to to get to know each student on a personal level.
i've honestly learned more in this class than I have in any other course I've taken at Harvard. I can finally understand the issues that I'm reading about in the news at a deeper level. This course takes international relations beyond theory and reveals how national security decisions are ACTUALLY made. Although this course will stretch you beyond what you think you can do, you will feel very rewarded for pushing yourself. If you're lucky enough to be accepted into this class, TAKE IT!
This class is a must-take for anyone interested in international relations, national security and politics in general. We worked on up-to-date material, constructing strategies to deal with issues ranging from the defense budget to Iran and China. In one week we got to have skype sessions with Dr. Kissinger and David Petraeus. This class was one of the best two classes I have taken- I cannot recommend it enough.
It's a great chance to put yourself in the shoes of the guys in charge of American foreign policy, to see if you could do any better...
This is an extraordinary course that will give you an opportunity to deeply understand the strategic challenges facing the United States and the difficult decisions that policymakers face every day. The course requires nuanced thinking, but it also requires the ability to write strategic options memos that convey your thinking in a very brief format.
Anyone interested in national security ought to take this class. Highly knowledgeable and interesting professors and peers, important and engaging topics, useful assignments, and guest lecturers make this unlike most other classes you will take. In particular, Professors Allison and Sanger have a great dynamic due to their different backgrounds; you also often learn as much from the other students in the course, who include mid-career Kennedy students, national security fellows, and those with military backgrounds. Speak up in class. Do all the readings--it will make the cases much more meaningful. And take this course. You will emerge with a much better understanding of decision-making and some of the most pressing issues facing the US today; memo-writing skills; and spend a semester (or longer) in a great community.
A great way to get up to speed with the current state of American security, and get in the shoes of the decision makers.
This course is fantastic at teaching you how to think about national security issues. Graham and David are hilarious balances to one another, and the quality of students in the class is also phenomenal. Can't recommend this class enough.
This is a very difficult course but pass/fail is an option! Professors Allison and Sanger are extremely knowledgeable and very invested in the course. It can be intimidating to approach them because there is a very high risk of asking "dumb" questions, but they are very gracious and their wisdom is worth any minor embarrassment or shame. My recommendation would be to not be afraid to speak up in class when you have something meaningful to say - come with a couple points/questions prepared from the readings in order to ask questions of these two experts. The best part of the course is just receiving all of the wisdom they have to share - take advantage of it!
This class is an incredible experience, and an institution of Harvard in-and-of itself. I learned a tremendous amount from the teaching team, but also from our colleagues and peers in the class, who brought a wide diversity of background and experience to the course and participated in interesting discussion during every lecture. Professors Allison, Sanger, and Reveron provided insightful, diverse perspectives, and were awesome to get to know.
This is a great class but be prepared to commit a lot of time to the readings and the memos. Once you get the hang of the memos, however, it's not so difficult. Definitely be active about getting to know the Professors and other students!
TAKE THIS COURSE. Not often that you get exposure to such expertise in one room. The course requires a lot of you but will fundamentally reshape how you think about some of the most pressing national security challenges facing our country. TAKE IT.
The class is really good and Professor Allison and Professor Sanger are always good for a joke. Every two weeks there is another topic like Syria, Iran etc. and you have to complete around 5 one-page memos about those topics with policy recommendations. The course requires a lot of effort, there are around 150 pages reading a week.
