This class is nothing like other Gov courses, which is a great thing about it. It's a great way to apply theory, to be forced to rethink your positions on real issues, and to question the very approach that so many courses take to issues. Take it, if only to think in a new way for once.
Professor Frazer is a great lecturer, and section gives you the opportunity to talk about some of the most controversial issues in politics in a new light.
Interesting introduction to ethics with practical applications.
best way to satisfy the political theory requirement for government; the theory is rooted in contemporary issues that are significant and controversial, making for interesting arguments, and heated discussions; really useful in analyzing various perspectives that proponents of issues have
It does what it says it does. If one finds it interesting, then this is the course to take.
For someone who wasn't looking forward to taking a moral reasoning core, I ended up hugely enjoying this class. The applications to moral issues in contemporary politics made the theoretical material easier to understand and more interesting, and I ended up enjoying the theoretical part much more than I would have though.
The grading is pretty tough but it is a great way to learn about moral issues in contemporary politics.  The professor's lectures are really engaging but if you have to miss one, there are lecture videos online.
very interesting issues.
This is a great class if you have opinions on moral/political questions but haven't thought about them systematically or would like to think harder about them. Workload totally fair, lectures outstanding.
This class will clarify the mess of thoughts you have in your head about issues like abortion and gay marriage and give you more conviction in whatever opinions you come out with at the end.
This course is perfectly solid but not amazing. Assignments, exams and lectures are very good, but the TF is only good. A very well-run course but not one of those that will stand out in my memory.
Professor Frazer is one of the best professors I have had at Harvard. His lectures were always interesting, very helpful and usually pretty funny. He was also extremely helpful and eager to answer any questions. The workload is completely do-able and usually pretty interesting. Makes you think of these topics from other perspectives than you might otherwise.
This class is fantastic. It effectively combined with theory to modern-day practice while addressing topical debates. The format of the course was particularly effective, as we examined the broad morality of issues at the beginning of the week, and its specific applications later. Section was a time to review the readings and lectures.
A very fun and interesting class. Professor Frazer is a fun lecturer and promotes discussion and debates in lectures as well as sections. Will force you to confront your own personal morality and whether it is rational and consistent.
I highly recommend this course! If you are at all interested/curious in the actual reasons behind people's political views, this is the class for you. I had NO BACKGROUND in philosophy nor government and it was fine. I really think EVERYONE should take this class, as it (arguably) teaches you more about real-life matters than any other class at Harvard. I LOVED this class and it made me want to concentrate in Government.
This is an easy way to fill your political theory gov req!! and it's an interesting course!
Take it. Frazer is an entertaining character, and he communicates a passion about most of the topics. The course does jump around a lot between different moral issues, and can therefore seem superficial in its treatment of the weekly subject matters. As long as you can deal with this, you should enjoy the class.
Arguably the most interesting course I've taken at Harvard.
An incredible class -- Professor Frazer is a great lecturer, and the class will expose you to philosophical responses to all the policy questions you've ever wondered about.
I already have recommended it!  Professor Frazer and his teaching fellows bring a fresh perspective.
Frazer's lectures are intellectually stimulating, he is great! Awesome TFs.  Readings are very manageable, papers require much thought.
Great class, really helps you frame contemporary moral issues that you normally wouldn't have time to analyze.
The course is really good and Frazer is a great lecturer. Make sure you take notes in class though.
This class is a great class! I find myself talking about these topics with friends in the dhall all the time. But this class gives you the tools to make solid moral arguments and solid political arguments. It also will show you all sides to each issue. So for example, when talking about commercial surrogacy. You will read and hear moral arguments for and against commercial surrogacy and you will read and hear political arguments for and against its legality. It's a great class with wonderful TFs. You should definitely take if you're interested in contemporary politics.
This is a great course. Everything about it. I think the easiest way to explain it is that everything about this course is interesting and relevant
Frazer is a very good lecturer, and the topics covered are thought-provoking and current. You're likely to have a strong opinion on many of the issues brought up in class, so expect to be challenged (morally, work-wise the class isn't particularly challenging). You'll either change your position or retain your opinion with better justification. If you're looking for a good, current ethics course, consider this over Justice. It's smaller and (from what I've heard about Justice) better.
The class is great in that it exposes you to different theorists and views on contemporary moral issues. Unless you are conservative, your views probably will not really be challenged. Most of the discussion/debate is within the sphere of the left. Although the professor and TFs do a great job of presenting both views, the student representation makes this difficult. The conservative makeup of the class is probably about 5%. It seemed that the students did not take the conservative viewpoints as seriously, and this may be due to the fact that there are better theorists/ readings to represent those views.
Discussions will be tough but you will get used to them
This is a very good class that will give you more insight about why you have certain views.
For a basic background in constructing moral arguments, as well as introduction to basic moral readings, this course could be for you. Overall, however, the lectures introduce increasingly decreasing amounts of material as the course slows down, and each lecture begins to basically feel like the last, just applied to a new "controversial" topic - I've discussed abortion, the death penalty, euthanasia, etc in high school, by the time I got to Harvard I was hoping we could discuss more nuanced (or at least less mainstream) topics. The workload is easy enough, and if even have a moderate work ethic and A shouldn't be too hard (definitely the easiest final I have taken in all of my time at Harvard), but for me the primacy of learning new and interesting material is largely bypassed by this course.
This class is a wonderful introduction to political theory, especially if you're interested in current moral/political issues. Great/painless readings, interesting lectures - I couldn't have imagined a better way to fulfill Moral and Ethical Reasoning.
Absolutely wonderful course! One of those that will stay with you.
Make sure you go to lectures, for the concepts that will tested in the exams. Readings are helpful for papers and section discussions.
Fantastic overview of dominant political theory of today's politics - everything from abortion and sex to economic redistribution. I left feeling much more knowledgeable on today's important political issues. Great way to fulfill a gov theory requirement.
Lectures were awesome!
This class is fantastic. Fascinating thorough lectures and section that really ask you to engage with the material. Really neat readings, but you get a lot out of the class even without reading everything. Take it if you're interested in really thinking about the beliefs that you hold. One of the best courses I've taken
Very well-run course, not easy but not hard. Nice way to satisfy the moral reasoning requirement while tackling issues that have contemporary relevance.
Whatever side you are on politically and ethically, this class will help you argue your point of view much more effectively than before
This course will challenge your morals! Take it, class is not difficult but you learn a lot!
Pretty interesting course with a very manageable course load. If you need to fulfill this requirement, definitely recommended. It is much more a philosophy than a government course, however.
The class is definitely what you make it, but the material is very interesting and thought-provoking
The class is very exciting if you're willing to step outside your comfort zone and tackling issues from new perspectives.
Good intro course to political philosophy
This class is amazing. You lear a lot and it comes in a great format. the lectures are interesting and the TFs know how to explore the issues brought up by the professor further.
The heavy reading doesn't feel as heavy because the material covered is so interesting and current.
An awesome course if you want in-depth discussion of current political issues.
This is the best way to get through your Political Theory Requirement. Professor Frazer is phenomenal, and the class really forces you to question your views. Definitely take it!
Great class! Such interesting material, section was great. And its recorded.
Section is great, if you are outspoken and opinionated about political debate.  Overall, painless course and probably a better alternative to Justice, though lecture is not that engaging.  My advice: don't go to lecture, do the readings, go to section, and join a study group for the final.
The class definitely works with wide-eyed, bushy-tailed government concentrators with little prior experience in handling philosophical texts. Prof. Frazer comes across as an average guy with a sense of humor who provides good lectures, and the teaching staff is really passionate about what they do. Not sure if it's as great of an experience as Justice, but it definitely comes close.
