Please spend sufficient time to do problems especial in the linear algebra part. And pay attention to all the basic concepts in linear algebra
Don't underestimate this course.  It's not necessarily easy, even if you think you already know the material.
The exams are harder than the homework exercises, so make sure you understand all the concepts and do very difficult problem you can. The calculus portion of the course is easy, but the linear algebra half is considerably harder - budget your time wisely when studying for the final exam! Overall, though, the material is definitely manageable.
If you're the type of student who is uncomfortable with taking any of the mathematical proofs or assumptions in your quantitative work for granted, this is the course for you. It provides necessary fundamentals in scalar calculus and linear algebra. I found the course to be a very helpful review of the mathematics behind statistics.
It's a fantastic course, and very thorough. It's a good building block for the higher levels of calculus and linear geometry that we'll all have to do. Prof Safari is always very helpful and willing to give time to explain things. I reommend him and his course highly,
If you're unfamiliar with probability or calculus, take this class.
It's a great class and you should take it.
I do think this course is the best solution for grad students with no math background. It takes you through the fundamental principles of multiple aspects of mathematics without getting bogged down in details. It focuses on the conceptual more than the procedural skills, so it covers a lot of ground and is tailored to students who aren't going to be necessarily using all of that math everyday. The professor ensures that you can follow most of what is in lecture without prior knowledge; he is really engaging and class is never boring. That said, if you really have no math background (like, no calc, only very basic algebra) you will still definitely feel like you're in deep water. It's not that there's a large quantity of work to keep up with on a regular basis, but the lectures don't waste any time and you can definitely start to feel intimidated and overwhelmed just because you're fed so much information very quickly, and most other students have more background than zero. But I was amazed that I really could do it in the end, and Prof Safari is very patient and available in office hours. And, it's not even as much work as I expected. Very well organized, thought-out and structured, it's a very good quality course to take, well worth the effort.
Although the course does not assume or require a strong background in math, it's not at all for the math-phobic. It's well-scaffolded, but you're expected to absorb concepts fairly quickly. It's an ideal course (sequence) for the enthusiastic math student who needs to cover a lot of ground fairly quickly.
If you're looking for a review/overview of the math concepts you need for graduate-level statistics, this course is fantastic!
