- tough grading, very much a moral reasoning course though it may not seem like it at first; great professor and TF
Lectures can be a little long
Subject material can be boring if you are not very interested in the Constitution and US government institutions.
I enjoyed it, but it's only for serious American-gov types.
The class topics are really interesting, and section is great, but sometimes lectures get very boring.
The class didn't require very much work but the lectures were definitely too long. I feel like I didn't learn very much over the course of the semester.
Unfortunately, the lectures for this course were not particularly engaging.  Professor Levinson's points come across much clearer and more succintly in his book that you also read for the class.
If you are even a little interested in the theory underlying our constitutional structure,this course is for you
There is very little actual work required of you, but the lectures are extrememly monotonous and the professor forces you to take notes my hand. Also, there is almost no direction on the paper assignments and your grade may suffer if it does not fit into the mold of the TF's mind. Otherwise, the material is very interesting and this could be one of the better classes if taught correctly. Unfortunately, it is not.
The material is interesting and the lectures are thought-provoking, but it is really necessary for the student to have a strong interest in the Constitution in order to get the most out of this class.
Professor Levinson is very smart, but his lectures are very slow. Some of the material can be quite dry.
Professor Levinson is intelligent and articulate.  He is open to ideas that counter his own.  Plus, he is adorable and I want him to be my grandpa! I don't know if anyone else has the knowledge or interest to teach this course though, so I don't know how it will be without him.
The workload is pretty light, but the class is very, very substantive. It was really exciting to have my system of government challenged non-stop by arguably the leading Constitutional critic in America. Really fascinating if you're interested in the practical and political effects of a constitution, and also great if you're into political theory.
This is an interesting class with a unique perspective of the Constitution. There is a fair amount of reading, but it actually wasn't all necessary. You really only use it for section, but even then, it isn't necessary. The only books you really need to read are the Sabato book (it's for your paper) and probably Professor Levinson's book.
If you want to understand how a founding document works and impacts this class and the culture of the people its meant for then this class is for you. If you want to study constitutional law then this course is not for you.
Do the readings and you'll be fine.
don't take this course unless you are pre-law and more specifically constitutional law.
Great opportunity.
This course challenges you think about the U.S. Constitution in a new light. It makes you question everything you have blindly accepted in our structure of government. The material is very interesting.
The Professor is very nice and intelligent.
Professor Levinson is really enthusiastic and completely hilarious. If the other students are engaged, this is a really great class.
Take this course if they are interested in political theory, American history, or a deeper understanding of the American Constitution.
Despite some minor faults, the powerful message of the course- that there are structural changes that must be made in our currently-undemocratic constitution- coupled with the strong teaching makes this a course worth taking
Intensive study into the structure of the Constitution.
It's a low workload.
be prepared for a lot of reading and long tangents in lecture. Otherwise, it can be a very interesting class.
This class is fun and relevant and helps one think in a positive and critical way about improving our government.
Counter-intuitively, this course perhaps changed my thinking more than any class and the way I view the field of study I'm interested.  However, it was very poorly executed.  A sustained critique of the Constitution fosters an intellectual skill absent in almost every citizen of the US who hear consistent veneration of the Constitution.  A human document can never be perfect and this class engrained this in me as well as the desire to change it.  I know that was the overall point of the class, and it certainly accomplished this.  On the other hand, it was hard to see the point of lectures and section, and readings from the founders' times (often 50 pages of very small print for each class) often seemed pointless.  The exams and one assignment seemed very arbitrary in their grading as well.  It's unclear how a class can foster an intellectual curiosity yet be so poorly executed, but this class accomplished this.
This class is not difficult, but not too exciting. The lectures can be pretty dull, especially if you're not very interested in the material. But, the class covers topics you'd never learn about otherwise.
This isn't ConLaw (1510), but it doesn't try to be.  Rather than discuss rights and jurisprudence, this class talks about all the hard-wired parts of the Constitution, but the class doesn't settle for just discussing what they are.  Rather, the course challenges you to think about what they should be and whether or not our government could be improved structurally.
