This course kicked my ass but I'm so glad I took it.
If you want to learn some practicalities, then its a nice introduction. Even better if you want to use some GIS techniques in a thesis or honors paper or something. But if you want to learn spatial analysis, just take Spatial Analysis.
great to learn gis. take pass/fail
This class is very informative and well taught. You will learn a lot about GIS methods. Be forewarned, though, you will not really get a lot of feedback on your performance in the class until the very end, since lab exercises were due towards the end of the semester. Moreover, the midterm we received was a lot harder than the previous exam the professor posted on the website, and was consequentially quite a shock.
Its great if you ever want to do research with spatial data and it looks great on a resume. It takes a lot of time.
If you want to learn GIS it's definitely a good course but it's also a lot of work - be ready to put in a lot of time on the labs and the final project.
This is an excellent way to learn GIS, which is a very applicable tool and useful skill. The professor is very accommodating.
Overall it's a pretty great class. Sumeeta is really helpful and very devoted to helping you learn how to work with GIS. But be sure you actually want to spend a lot of time learning this stuff. ArcMap is the most frustrating software I've ever worked with and it made for some long nights in CGIS.
The lectures at times seem extremely basic and you wonder if you're learning anything, but then by the end of term you discover that you feel confident and capable working with ArcGIS to investigate your own geospatial questions, and that's great. The midterm is really effective at cementing what you've learned in lab because you often just complete the labs like a machine and don't really pay attention to what it was that you were doing.
This was a great class to take! It is a very time-consuming course, though, with a lot of time spent in CGIS to do all of the labs. The final project was a really great chance to delve into a topic of interest. Sumeeta was so great and provided a ton of support for all of her students.
This class is great!  Sumeeta is a great professor who knew everyone in the class (and she promised that even if she didn't, she'd always remember your project).  The labs are very straightforward and will only take the estimated 6 hours if you encounter technical difficulties...which unfortunately happens.  The take home midterm takes a long time, but is also straightforward and fair.  The labs can all be redone, so if you have a rough week in your other classes don't worry!  The final project is definitely doable, the expectations aren't unreasonable and you have time to get feedback before writing up the paper.  GIS can be so useful in other fields and the class is a great introduction, I highly recommend this!
you learn a huge amount and it's a really flexible class that just wants you to learn as much as you can!
Be proactive about seeking extra help on lab exercises.
This course provides a wonderful way for one to learn how to analyze a research topic from a different perspective.
This is a great introduction for anyone interested in the geographic information system.
This class can be very tedious and time consuming. If you are not extremely interested in learning GIS then don't take this class.
If you want a skill that can be directly useful in the real world, take this class! GIS is being used in all sorts of fields, and this class is an excellent introduction to it.
This is a very difficult class but worth it.
GIS is a very rewarding and applicable skill to learn. The lab assignments were totally manageable, while still interesting, and the midterm and final projects really helped tie together everything taught in the course. I would recommend this course to anyone interested in learning to make maps like the ones you see for election data, in news articles, etc. This is a great class!
If you are interesting in spatial analysis, this is a great course to take.
make sure you are very self motivated! most useful if you already have a project in mind.
This is a great introduction to GIS.  If coming from a more quantitative field, don't expect it to be too challenging in that respect.  The weekly labs are doable and there are a ton of opportunities to ask questions, but they do require a decent amount of time in the computer lab.
Make sure you get the lab work down. Just completing it for the sake of completing it will screw you over (especially for the midterm, but also for the final.)
The material covered in this course are very basic and can be learned as needed from library TAs. Graduates should use their electives more wisely since this is a time consuming course. The prelim takes 12+ hrs to finish.
This was one of my favorite classes I've taken here.  You really learn a technical skill while actively applying it in every lab.  I couldn't recommend it more.
This course is a demanding but rewarding experience. There is nothing more gratifying than cobbling together a map you could never have seen yourself making with GIS. Though this course does ask a lot, it is an exceptionally practical and well-taught overview of GIS. I recommend you take this course if you have a strong interest in cartography and new horizons in mapping.
it is a field of research that is increasing and it is super useful to have the basic knowledge of what we can do with ArcGis
This is very good. If you want something to boost your resume or maybe find a new career - think about GIS.
GREAT class, Sumeeta is exceptionally helpful as an instructor. Take this class if you have something in mind to do your final project on. Workload in very reasonable and no busy work.
Great class if you have any interest in understanding and analyzing spatial data. Labs are very hands-on exercises in ArcGIS software that show how data are really gathered, organized, and analyzed in real project settings. Sumeeta is very helpful and accommodating throughout the whole process.
YES YES! One of the best courses you will take. Be prepared for long stints in the lab and putting in a huge amount of work on the project, but definitely worth it!
This course will teach you something tangible that just about EVERY SINGLE FIELD CAN USE. Get used to spending a ton of time in lab, though, since you basically have to devote several hours (FAR more than the 4-5 approximate hours) per week to the lab to make it good.
Keep a log as you read for what each command is.  This may seem time consuming but its useful come mid term.
Stay in class on Thursdays in the lab; get help from the professor and TA on the labs before you go home, because otherwise, you'll spend all-nighters struggling with the labs!
Wonderful skill to learn for students conducting thesis research.
It's an interesting course, but if you aren't willing to put in a significant amount of work, then don't bother. Great Government course to fill a requirement, though.
This is a wonderfully practical class. You are able to synthesize much of what you learned in other methods courses and it gives you a great skill set to add to your analysis bag of tricks. Also, Sumeeta and Jen are super helpful. This course is great because Sumeeta makes it very low pressure and makes it clear that her aim is to help us learn about the program.
This class teaches you a concrete skill, which is very different from many of the theory-based courses at Harvard. If you plan on doing any kind of spatial analysis, especially for a thesis, this class will prove immensely useful. It's difficult and you will have to spend a lot of time for the class, but it will be worth it.
It's a good way to get down the basics of GIS and you feel comfortable using  the software and data. But it might not give enough on its own to help you finish a major paper or thesis so it might be useful to do further coursework beyond this course for these purposes.
This course is a fantastic introduction to ArcGIS, an incredibly useful program. The labs are consistently interesting and instructive, and Sumeeta is a very supportive instructor. Take this course if you are interested in exploring social science questions from a geographic perspective!
This class is a big time commitment but it is a really interesting and applicable tool to have. Sumeeta and Yuri are both really helpful and supportive and will really facilitate your learning! I definitely recommend this class for anyone interested in geography whatsoever.
If you have any interest in maps or thinking spatially, this is a great introduction to GIS. There are so many applications to GIS and it's good to learn a "real" skill that you can actually apply to the real world. Sumeeta is a great teacher and is very helpful. However, be prepared to spend all day Thursday completing your lab and extremely frustrated with trying to learn GIS, but overall its a great class.
It's fairly hard to motivate yourself to do the work -- you have to trek over to CGIS to do all the assignments, but the maps themselves are cool.
Take this course - it's the most practical class I've taken so far.
you will learn a lot and be very happy you took it
If you're interested in learning how to use GIS, this class is great. It's a lot of work, especially the final project, but it's worth it. I don't think I've ever spent this much time on a class per week and not really noticed or minded. The final project was actually kind of fun! And Sumeeta is one of the most helpful professors I've had.
This is a great course and a really useful skill to have. I recommend this course to people from all concentrations. The labs are straightforward, but do take a lot of time, so be prepared to put in the effort. Overall, though, I really liked this course. It might be especially useful if you come in with an idea of what you want to do with your GIS skills.
Excellent introduction to the importance of spatial questions and methods for social and evironmental issues.
This class is an excellent introduction to spatial analysis and the software that it employs. That said, prospective students need to be aware that the lab exercises, mid-term exam, and final project represent around 85-100 hours of computer lab time over the course of the semester. Students who are not passionate about both geography and quantitative social science or who are not willing to invest a substantial amount of time in the course should think carefully before enrolling.
This class is great. You really learn how to use GIS. If you want to use GIS for fun or for one specific project, you might just want to audit this class because it is a lot of work, but otherwise it's a great class.
This was a great course that covers all the basics of GIS and spatial analysis.  The knowledge is also very  practical.
This is an excellent, informative and relatively painless introduction to the use of Geographic Information Systems.
you get out as much as you put in.  not a ton of work, but you can do some really cool things. Sumeeta is awesome.
This is a very good introduction to ArcGIS and--at least for graduate students--it works nicely if you have some existing project or data that you would like to analyze spatially.
While the assignments may take awhile to complete, the class is great, and it seems like mapping is going to be really popular and useful in the future.
I would recommend this course to someone who wanted to learn the basics of GIS, not to someone interested in cartography/spatial theory more broadly.
I would recommend this class only to students who have a specific purpose for GIS in mind.  Students should also be prepared for a harrowing timed midterm.
Keep up with the readings and make sure you understand all the terms that come up. The take-home midterm was tough - median score was about 72 and you should budget a lot of time for it. Get started on the final project as early as possible because you may end up spending a lot of time searching for data, cleaning up data and troubleshooting.
GIS is a very powerful tool, so if it interests you at all this is a really great way to learn about both the software and the ideas and theories that will make you able to put it to good use (like in a thesis...)
GIS is a good skill to know. This class, however, is not very fun and I'm sure one could learn how to use ArcGIS by simply playing with the software and using online tutorials. That said, the horrible TF was part of the reason why I didn't feel very supported.
This class is great for people who like playing with data and looking for patterns.
Very useful skill to learn but difficult and frustrating to learn at the same time
If you have any reason to take this course--i.e., if you have confronted any research questions that have a spatial component you are interested in exploring--you MUST take it. It is a reasonably significant time commitment, as the learning curve on ArcGIS software is a steep one at first. However, the instructor for this course is so unbelievably patient and supportive that you will find yourself making progress quickly and painlessly, so long as you put in the time on the problem sets (5-7 hours per week). The results are well worth the effort, as you can do almost anything you can imagine with basic knowledge of the tools used in this course. Definitely take it, unless you for some implausible reason hate maps...
This class is the type of course where you get out as much as you put in.  The labs are somewhat time consuming, but the real learning occurs in completing the labs.  Sumeeta is a great resource, and you learn that when you engage her with questions and with the issues that you come across in working with the labs or on your project.
It is so, so useful, well formatted, and rewarding. It teaches a life long skill.
This is a great chance to learn how to do some thesis or dissertation work and learn a new skill. If one puts the time into the course it is very rewarding.
Fantastic class if you want to learn ArcGIS
If you want to learn the fundamentals of GIS and feel comfortable using the program, you should take this class.
Do it! Even if you don't expect to use GIS in the future, this course is insightful in general as well as delivering basic analytical skills.
Fun to learn an applicable skill and to think about problems in a different way.  Sumeeta is outstanding and very reachable/helpful.  Labs are a bit of work, though very doable and easy to walk through once you sit down and delve into them.
This class will teach you how to use ArcMap and related programs to produce maps for many data sources. The time commitment is low: 1 hour of lecture per week and a few hours (5-7) to make the maps for weekly labs or to complete the take-home midterm. GIS does appear to be a specialized skill, and it's worth asking yourself how valuable learning it is to you. If you intend to go into public policy or urban planning, it's a good skill to have. If not, you may want to search for another class. 1008 is very good for what it is supposed to do, so take it if you're interested in learning how to use and interpret spatial data.
An introduction to using ArcMap software for GIS. Good for all technical levels. At times tedious, and you end up doing a lot of self learning - looking at tutorials online etc. Sometimes frustrating and more time consuming than you expect, but you walk away with a solid basic skill set and a final project that you can add to your portfolio/thesis.
Gov 1008 is such a fantastic class. Sumeeta is so passionate about GIS and about imparting it to her students! GIS is a useful professional skill and this course will give you a firm grounding in GIS basics. The course structure is fantastic (if you are willing to put in your own time)--one 1-hr lecture per week and ample lab hours for students to work on their lab exercises. If you are willing to work hard and seek help when you need it (and it's certainly offered!), then you will gain so much from this course.
Sumeeta is awesome! It's a great class, easy and very useful if you have a research project that uses GIS. You get to work on your own stuff
For students who want utilize spatial analysis as part of their research work, this class is essential. In a semester of work you can absorb essential spatial tools that add tremendous value and power.
If you really want to learn how GIS works and many different applications, it is helpful. However, it is very technical and the weekly labs are quite time consuming and difficult.
If you want to learn GIS, this is the course to do it in. The labs are generally very straightforward, the midterms by contrast are not. You will consolidate your knowledge of ArcGis in a final project which is rewarding because you will feel that you have at least a basic mastery of ArcGis. Be wary though that this class does not require much critical thinking, and is definitely a skill-learning class rather than a class that teaches you to think critically about mapping or GIS.
In the end, this course teaches one thing and one thing only: how to use ArcGIS. It's the equivalent of having a course on how to use MS Word or Excel, which is absurd. I am not sure why this is a class...
I would encourage them to be well-informed about what geographic analysis truly is before they take the class, so they know what they are getting themselves into.
That they should expect to be self-taught or look to cross-register at other schools.
This is very much a self-directed course. You have to be comfortable with learning on your own, dealing with ambiguity, and feeling like you're just lost for a bit. The professor's lectures are quick, and they are not at all sufficient to master the material. The labs are thorough, but you have to make sure you understand what you're doing, or clarify everything with the professor.
This course is a great introduction to GIS! I learned all the basic tools that I need to know to put together a simple map and conduct some preliminary analysis.
A perfect introduction course of GIS as a science and for its application.
