This is a good course in philosophy, but one should be ready to have to "prove" their work on few occasions (just the sections, a midterm and a final).
My only real caveat was the size- I tend to prefer seminar courses, though this semester it worked out well. Other than that, my other comments regarding the quality of the teaching and content stand to recommend it strongly.
DON'T TAKE THIS FOR A CORE. I probably should have given in and taken chinese moral philosophy or something. It wasn't as organized/rewarding as I expected  and after a while the question (what is property?) got old.
The readings and lectures are excellent, and extremely enjoyable. It's the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. I always look forward to going to lecture.
If you like boring subjects, take this class.
Be prepared for a lot of reading and not-so-good grading policies, but the material is interesting
What is Property? It is a lot of reading.
This is an excellent way to read a good deal of the cannon of western political thought. Nelson does a great job connecting one author to the next; however, I was a bit suspicious of the ease with which he did this. Certainly there are intellectual echoes of Greek ideas about property and the state in our contemporary thought, but I thought that this smooth history could have been problematized a bit more my incorporating more history in the course. Also, the exclusive focus Judeo-Christian theories of property was a bit troublesome. Sure, there is more than enough material in that tradition to fill a semester, but if we don't start incorporating non western political theory into class now, when will we ever?
I think this class was a really good way of fulfilling the Moral Reasoning core, in addition to being a great class overall. The material was interesting and it was really well taught.
You'll get an engaging narrative of property throughout the centuries, but you won't necessarily know what property -is-, particularly in a classificational sense. You'll get a lot of Western philosophy, most of it political in nature, and that you'll get well but forget a contemporary, interdisciplinary, or cross-cultural approach. You'll learn a lot, though.
do not take this course unless you do have vast stores of time to devote to the reading during the semester.
I'd recommend it to someone who was majoring in political theory and had already read most of the authors for the class.
There is a lot of reading, but there is also much intrinsic reward for one's efforts. A great course for political theorists, economists, historians of ideas, or future lawyers.
Waaay too much reading. Take it if you like to read and don't have a heavy workload otherwise. It's a great overview of philosphy and political science however.
heavy philosophy in a very confined subject
The subject material is super interesting and the professor is great but it lacks organizational structure to support the students along the way.
There is a good deal of reading, much of which is very dry, so be prepared to give a lot of time to reading and re-reading, because otherwise you will not get much out of the course.
The readings are great, and you should do them all at some point.  This course gives you the motivation (read: forces you) to deal with some tough questions and great thinkers on property and government more generally.
In order do well, you MUST DO all of the reading for this course. It is extremely difficult to do well without alloted a great deal of time for reading.
The readings are terrible.
The lectures are great and interesting, but the work load is unbearable.
For a more approachable course, take Justice.
Interesting material but probably only if you're already interested in theory
The reading is excruciating, which is why I haven't done any of it. My grade is suffering as a result. Don't take this class if you don't want to read a lot. If you don't read, you are screwed. The exams require that you distinguish one philosopher from another by reading 3-sentence long passages. We have read about 80 different books. This feat is therefore an impossibility, and even more unfortunate is the fact that this class is not being curved and the average grade on the midterm was C+.
There was a LOT of reading, the coursework was fairly interesting.
A good way to fulfill Moral Reasoning.
Be sure to get Jacob Kline as the TF if you can, otherwise I wouldn't recommend it.
The course and coursework is very interesting and the lectures delve into the topic very well.  However, be prepared for a lot of reading to gain anything out of the class.
This was one of the courses I really got excited in all the years I've spent here.
you'll get as much out of this class as you give it
Lectures are amazing but the testing is very frustrating and difficult.  Do the readings to get the most out of the course but quantity of readings can be overwhelming.  Also the course title misrepresents the course.  Basically, an overview of political philosophy with property as a lens.
For a dynamic introduction to some of the most famous works and authors in modern political thought, this course is perfect.
a lot of reading and ideas of individual authors to keep straight
The material is excellent and fascinating, but do not take this course unless its structure of sections, assignments, tests, and essays is dramatically changed. The design of the course makes it unnecessarily unpleasant and frustrating.
The readings are great, but the course is a lot of work and challenging.
Prof. Nelson is an excellent lecturer - one of the best I've had.  If you need a political theory for Gov, take this one instead of overrated Justice.  The midterm, final, and papers are very straightforward and shouldn't be any trouble if you keep up with the class (or cram it all in during reading period).  Sections are a pain in the butt, but that's not a complaint limited to this class.
Do anything you can to hear Nelson lecture.
There is a lot of reading for this class, don't take it if you have other reading intensive classes.
Professor Nelson is fundamentally amazing.
This course is great if you have ever wanted to read the great philosophers but have felt that they were inaccessible. This course, with its focus on property allows you easier access to great works by Plato, Cicero, Locke, etc..
Nelson's lectures are really good and he helps make otherwise very difficult texts much more clear. However, you have to be willing to read some very dull texts and be prepared for the fact that this is not a class about theories of property but about Western theories of property.
Difficult course, but it is interesting material if political philosophy is an interest of yours.
This is a really terrific class, covering a wide range of political theory in a interesting and high-level way. Prof. Nelson's lectures are tremendous, and the I really did gain a lot from the course, despite having read many of the texts before.Two brief notes: First, be warned that the class is not for the faint of heart or those with little background in political theory. Prof. Nelson's lectures are dense, and prior exposure to political theory in general and some texts of the course made it, at least for me, much more enjoyable, and I think much more manageable as well. Having taken Social Studies 10 made the course vastly more approachable than it would have been otherwise. Still, if the content and authors are interesting to you, I couldn't imagine a better course on political theory.Second, while the class is ostensibly about property, the wide breadth of the authors you study means that you often times have to learn the particular philosophical system of the thinker you read at a general level to get at what they have to say about property specifically (e.g., how Hobbes treats property is derivative of how he understands the sovereign; how Plato treats property is derivative of his broader theory of justice, etc.). This makes it both more challenging and interesting in a certain way, but also makes the class title something of a misnomer. It is certainly focused on property, but it functions just as well as a survey of various major political thinkers (something I enjoyed). All told, highly recommended!
If the title of the course appeals to you, definitely take it.  I loved it.
This may seem like an easy course, but the reading is heavy and easy to fall behind on. Do not take this as an easy elective, unless you have a lot of time.
Great class, which will canvass major theoretical approaches to property.  More than is evident from the course description, it also provides a very good overview of major thinkers in the canon (overlap with the 1060/1061 reading lists).
This course presents a dynamic model for doing intellectual history with both a broad diachronic sweep and serious depth.
Solid political philosophy class.
A hefty amount of reading is assigned, all of which is worthwhile to do (but can still get a tremendous amount out of the class even if don't make it through it all).
Great way to tackle a lot of philosophy in one course, synthesized unbelievably well by Professor Nelson.
if you need a class in political philosophy, this is the one to take.
It's a good class...you'll get some broad exposure to some of the most important theorists of the past 1000 years (and beyond). Great alternative to a introductory political theory course
Prof Nelson is a great lecturer.
This class is an extremely rewarding but difficult course that will give you a very detailed, informed view of the main political philosophers. Focusing on the topic of property keeps the class focused and allows you to better compare and contrast the view of the different philosophers. Be prepared to do all of the reading and spend a significant amount of time preparing for the essays and exams.
Be prepared for large amounts of reading. Also, understand that this class is essentially a philosophy class.
This class is like Justice-lite. Mostly the same material (though thankfully centered around a more defined theme) but smaller, more personal, and with better fitting course work. I felt much more at ease the night before my final compared to my roommate in Justice and yet was just as familiar with the names he mentioned- Locke, Rawls, Nozick, etc. This is the second class I've taken with this professor and I would recommend any of his classes with enthusiasm.
