I would recommend this course as a broad introduction to the field of IR, even to those not planning on choosing this field as one of their main concentrations.
Lots of reading, but very worthwhile.
This is a great class if you want to get a solid foundation in the IR literature. If you're already familiar with the literature and are looking to generate/work-on research ideas, this class may not be the most helpful in that regard.
It's really going to depend who is teaching it. Their own views of the field of IR will come out. So with Josh teaching it you get a lot psychology in IR. With Beth you get liberalism and gender in IR. Most other scholars would have put more realism in, though I'm glad these two didn't.
Great and interesting course for PhD students even if they have had no exposure to IR
Range of readings is highly circumscribed, although it does cover canonical texts.
Class dynamic depends heavily on professors and other students:  teachers who ask interesting questions and convey their own interest in the subject, and fellow students who are engaged and willing to participate in debate.
If you are not from the discipline of political science, make sure that you are willing to work a little harder to understand the political science discipline's approach to argument construction, credible evidence, focus on theory, etc.
Take it! Good overview of current debates and the development of IR.
Take this class if you are doing IR generals or want a survey.
The quality (and readings) of this class seems to vary based on the instructor. Iain was great.
Read as much as you can for the course and try to appreciate the work for its historical significance.
A good, eat your spinach class for learning the canon, but like most surveys, not necessarily for those with a casual interest!
A great course for prepping for generals. Beth is excellent at synthesizing ideas.
Iain is a great professor - he helps contextualize the readings for non-IR students, and he is genuinely interested in how the week's readings relate to our own fields of study. You will walk out of this class with much more knowledge of IR, and be better prepared to discuss the major points of contention in the field with others.
It's great, take it.
No surprises.
