This class is amazing. Professor Enos is a great lecturer and presents interesting, relevant material. Section is great to clarify and debate material, and to practice connecting it to other course themes. Make sure to do the readings so you don't cram for the reading-based midterms! Take it if you have any interest in politics or psychology!!
Take it. The content is really interesting and Professor Enos is truly engaging and really cares about how much you get out of the class.
It's a perfect class for those interested in applying psychology to not only politics but also current events. Take it! You will not regret. =)
This class had a lot of reading but was great and extremely interesting.
this class teaches you a lot about political behavior and the material is very interesting
Great class to take, especially if you've never taken Social Psych, Cognitive Psych, or Behavioral Econ. If you've taken one of those classes, you'll see some overlap; if you've taken all three of those, you're not going to learn much new material, but at least the political implications will be interesting. Very friendly class without a killer workload; professor is awesome.
Professor Enos does a great job of making this course work.  It is structured differently than other classes I have taken with two reading based midterms, one group project, and a final, but it felt like all of the work was very useful to understanding course material.  Enos is a really engaging lecturer and makes all of the material very accessible by making you feel like you are working with him to understand the issues presented.
One student dropped out of this course. I know him personally. He is a complete retard. Take this course.
DO THE READINGS, and DO THEM IN DEPTH. All of the tests are on the small details of the readings.
This class is amazing! The professor is enthusiastic and the material is interesting. It's a great combination of the two subject areas. The class touches upon some things learned in Stat 104 (designing experiments, reading data results), but no stats knowledge is required. The class also covers a lot of psychology, but I came in with zero knowledge and understood everything well. He does a great job of explaining things, and he means it when he says that you need no prior knowledge. The professor is really great; he makes a genuine effort to get to know his students, and he makes class discussion possible even in a lecture setting. One of the coolest parts of the class is the group research project, where you get to design and conduct your own experiment and analyze your results!
Do you love political psychology? Do you want to know how people and politicians think? Do you want to know how to make great campaigns and use interesting tactics to win elections and stuff, then PLEASE TAKE THIS COURSE. It is great to fulfil an elective and it is great to see what a government class is like. I reccommend it for freshman spring because there is a fair amount of readings.
Neither intellectually satisfying nor challenging - a pity, since the subject itself is interesting. Professor Enos teaches down.
This class is great! Make sure to keep up with the readings and attend lecture!
This is one of the best classes I've taken. I truly enjoyed every single reading (really, every single one). The lectures were also fascinating. I never felt like the 1.5 hours was too long, and I never dreaded going to class (even though it was at 10 in the morning). It does have a group project for those of you who hate that, but there is some flexibility in when you do the project and what your study will be. Definitely take it.
Make sure to do the readings
just take the class. don't even shop it.
super interesting-really applicable to daily life!
A really interesting course. Important to do the readings for the midterms. Sometimes can be a lot of reading. Start your project early!
This class is one of the best I took at Harvard in four years. All the work in the class contributes to the learning experience and does not feel excessive. The atmosphere of the Professor and TFs is warm, yet professional.
So far the best class I have taken at Harvard yet.
The course is extremely interesting and entertaining.  The only downside is that it requires a lot of reading, but if you form a study group prior to an exam it is definitely worth it.
Cool and relaxed class at Harvard, but be prepared to read a lot of psych studies.  But you could also take Democratic Citizenship with Prof Claudine Gay and learn a lot of the same stuff.
This class is awesome! If you have any interest in politics, human behavior, or social science, this course is fantastic.  Ryan Enos is one of the best professors I have had at Harvard, and I encourage everyone to shop his class, even if it would only be an elective
Possibly my favorite class at Harvard so far!
you have to be willing to do the readings
Keep up with the readings- they are interesting and will be in detail on the mid term.
This class was incredible. Lectures were very interesting and thought-provoking, looking at political events and phenomena through a lens I had never used before. Professor Enos did a great job of allowing students to contribute to lectures as well. Take this class now!
interesting topic and well presented.
This class was a great blend of government and psychology - wonderful for those interested in one or both of these topics.
This class is really interesting. Enos is a great lecturer and really makes you think. Lecture includes a lot of discussion but very interesting discussion. Important to know that it is more focused on psychology than government.
one of the only classes at Harvard that I can say genuinely helped me understand the world in a completely different way. TAKE THIS CLASS and be prepared to face the evidence: people are dumb.
It was a good course, but you should keep up with the readings.
OMG BEST CLASS EVER.  seriously.Professor Enos and the TFs were really great in that they were genuinely interested in students and getting to know everyone in the class.
Prof. Enos is great--I will remember more of this class's material because of his lecture style
Professor Enos is a lot of fun and you definitely want to go to his office hours to say Hello. The class is enjoyable with real world examples (think terrorists and the 2008 election), and the theories we talk about actually make a lot of sense.
This is the best class I have ever taken. It's not too much work, extremely interesting, and very relevant to current politics
This is my favorite class so far at Harvard! Professor Enos and the TFs are all excellent teachers, very accessible outside of class, and really make an effort to get to know everyone personally. Most of the readings are very interesting, although some are a little dry. Take this course!! You will not regret it.
While there is a lot of reading, and the midterms can be frustrating, the subject matter is wonderfully interesting!
One of the most fun, engaging classes I've taken.  I went to every lecture because I didn't want to miss anything!
You learn a lot about human nature and racism. Enos is a great lecturer, and the topics covered are very important if you're interested in going into politics or trying to affect change. The questions on the tests are picky, but take it anyway
Be prepared for the research project; don't put it off until the last minute. Also make sure to do the readings every week.
I would suggest taking this class pass/fail. There is a lot of reading, and the questions in section quizzes and on the midterm tended to be fairly detailed. The information is very interesting and lecture is engaging, but the assignments did not always match the aims of the rest of the course.
This was a phenomenal class. Very interesting, well-presented material. Professor Enos is one of very few professors that actually bothers to learn the names of students and is very accessible, which made the class even more enjoyable.
Fun and informative, but be prepared for more "science"-y readings than you might expect from a Gov class.
Really great class- one of my favorites at Harvard. Enos is engaging and so much fun. Lectures are really interesting and definitely make you think twice about things you took granted about the world. He really promotes a deeper level of thinking about problems in order to come up with why certain political phenomena occur. A lot of the class builds off of earlier lectures which is cool so definitely don't miss any lectures. Take this class- you'll enjoy it.
professor is good for gov standards, great for psych's
This was an amazing class; I now consider it my favorite one at Harvard. It was so interesting and I enjoyed every minute of it.
This class is really hard. The concepts are not easy to understand and the assessments are almost unreasonably difficult. Be prepared to do every sentence of every reading to do well on the exams. That said, the material is extremely interesting and it was probably one of my favorites classes in terms of subject matter.
The class was incredibly interesting, Prof. Enos is awesome, and the workload is manageable EXCEPT there is a reasonably high amount of reading required. Make sure you know your reading details for the midterm - it seemed to have some fairly detail specific questions from the readings themselves
Make sure to do the readings for the exams. You'll need to know them all for the tests.
Make sure that you attend lecture. Professor Enos is a very good lecturer and does a great job of explaining things that you may not have understood from the reading.
This class starts out interesting, but then got steadily more and more boring as the year went on. The lectures get very repetitive, and not much new information is presented during the last third of the class. Prof. Enos is also incredibly anal, so expect all the assignments to be graded in the most annoying way possible. Unless you are overwhelmed by the idea of political psychology, stay away, as there are much better alternatives.
This course is very interesting. There is not a lot of work required but you do have to have a strong handle on the material both readings and lectures to do well on exams.
A great introduction to a new perspective to political science.
This class is more difficult than it sounds. The tests are challenging, and the readings are very dense, but the professor is awesome and the course is rewarding overall.
Take this class! The professor cares a lot about the students, and the assignments are not too challenging. Make sure you do the readings, or else you won't get much out of the class.
This course will have a different instructor next year, so keep that in mind. If the intersection of psychology and politics interests you, definitely at least shop it and see what the new professor is like.
Take this class if you are interested in constituent behavior and thought and are looking into a career that involves politics or policy making.
A great class that introduces a number of important concepts for political psychology (with more focus on the psychology than the politics). Lectures were very engaging and readings were interesting, though long.
Take it! it's fun!
very good class, lots of reading (I took it p/f so I didn't do much of it) and the midterm is pretty tough and requires memorization of authors names, but the actual material is very interesting.
Definitely one of the more interesting and applicable government courses, and it was really cool to be able to explain real-world political phenomena using theories in political psychology.  Just make sure you have enough time to do all the readings every week (they're usually very interesting!), as there are weekly reading quizzes in section, and most of the midterm and part of the final exam ask about the details of the readings.
One of my favorite Harvard courses ever. Prof. Enos is a fantastic lecturer and a great person, and it's too bad that he won't be teaching the course again next year. The material is really, really, enlightening if you're remotely interested in politics and/or psychology (the course definitely includes a lot of both). The material is very do-able and fair
Definitely do the readings - I took this course pass/fail but skipping the readings made the exams pretty difficult. Also, this course has a pretty strong liberal bias, so though its incredibly interesting, I wouldn't describe it as a holistic overview of political psychology,
This is a great class - take it and it will completely change how you approach government
Great Gov class with a good mix of psychology. Professor Enos is great and very passionate about the subject. Exams can be tough and you must do the reading every week and keep up as much as possible. The group project was not as difficult as I thought it would be orginally.
DO YOUR READINGS
Took it pass/fail.  Happy with the decision, although it might have been an easy A if I hadn't.
Interesting but challenging.
This is a great class! Great TFs and Professor! Make sure to study appropriately for the midterms as they are more detail-oriented than just understanding the general/basic point of a reading.
I really did not like this class. It should be part of the Psychology department, since it's almost all psych theory with very little practical political application. Basically, you learn the complicated psychology behind occurrences that any politically aware person can explain away with common sense.
Don't take it as an elective; if you do, take it pass fail!
This class has a great deal of the potential. Yet, the professor chooses to quiz on random facts in both midterms. He provides no real opportunity to engage with the readings. The course could have been taught much better.
This class is definitely worth taking. It makes you view politics from a very different perspective.
Be prepared for a lot of reading/memorization with tough midterms.
The class material is pretty interesting. The two midterm quizzes are solely based on the readings. You should read them fairly carefully and if you do so, the quizzes are easy and straightforward. Lectures were kind of disorganized and the professor goes off on tangents sometimes. But, you don't really need the lecture for the midterms.
If you have interests that overlap in both government and psychology, you will probably really enjoy this course. It's a ton of fun because of the people teaching it. The class discussions are great, and it's really worth your time getting to know your instructors. Do the readings and get involved. You get a lot out of it.
Great class but the multiple choice tests can be a bit too detail-oriented. You may study the material well but struggle to show that due to the format of the tests.
If you LOVE politics, and you're willing to give 15 hours + per week to this course, then take it. If you are not, then please, please don't. It demands an insane amount of work and reading. The TFs are unreasonable and unclear about their expectations. The quizzes are nearly impossible. I have never put so much time into a course and done so poorly.
Do your readings on time. They're actually very interesting, you'll get more out of lecture, and you'll learn a lot. It's a pain scrambling to do the readings right before an exam (which are heavily based on details in the readings).
Readings are interesting, tests can be difficult.
BEST CLASS EVER! Definitely take this class before you graduate. If you like politics, psychology, social justice, and great professors this is the class for you!
Take this course if you want a comprehensive introduction to political psychology or analyzing political phenomenon through the lens of psychology. Be sure to not only do all the readings, because the midterms are heavy on reading comprehension, but also active read the texts because you are asked to synthesize them in original ways on the final!
The subject matter is fascinating, the readings interesting, and Enos is generally good. Enos's lecture/discussion style is susceptible to being dominated by the course's most vocal students, so if you have a couple overzealous people get used to hearing them talk all semester.
This is a great class! Professor Enos is funny and engaging and you'll have your mind blown repeatedly. Work load is manageable, although you will have to do the readings.
This was my favorite class semester.  The material is interesting and applies to everyday life.  Such a useful and intriguing class. TAKE IT, you won't be sorry!
Great class. Best I've taken all freshman year. Changed what I want to concentrate in.
Great class. Not so friendly to non-liberals (but there's probably very few of you out there, so you probably don't care). My only complaint. Incredibly entertaining and eye-opening class.
This class is awesome. Readings and lectures have super cool material. Quizes are on details of the reading, which can get annoying. No writing, which is great until the final when you have to do two essays and you've never done anything like them before. Make sure you get people you like for the project
Mangeable workload and interesting lectures
Be ready for the midterms. Don't skip a reading. Outline all of the readings with details because those details will probably be on the midterm, graphs and pictures included in what needs to be known. The final is much more reasonable than the midterms.
This class is really fun. The entire teaching staff is great and super energetic. The readings are cool and you will discover a lot about the way people think. There is a surprising amount of reading--some weeks caught me off guard. Section was always fun and Professor Enos gives really good lectures. Participate in discussion! You will gain a lot from it.
This is a really great class if you are interested in a) understanding politics and how it works in the U.S., b) being a better citizen by understanding other voters, c) being more self-aware by understanding how your own psychology works, d) understanding major studies in psychology in general, unrelated to politics, e) being able to interact in lecture with a professor and fellow students and to voice your opinion. This course is a must to understand government, psychology, and/or to become a better citizen.
Professor Enos is very captivating and makes you veryinterested in the subject material
This class was an interesting, if not groundbreaking, look at how pysch can explain a lot of what we read in the news. The readings and lectures are both well worth your while
Best class I've taken at Harvard! Cannot recommend this class enough. Great readings, super interesting, explains elections, explains so much about behavior. If you like psychology, take it (Especially if you like social psychology). If you like politics, take it. So goooood
great lectures! one of a kind
Professor Enos is a phenomenal, engaging lecturer who manages to incorporate class discussions into the lecture. The course material is interesting and Enos has super useful slides that he posts online to capture the essence of the lecture, so you can actually pay attention to what is being said rather than furiously typing everything up. The TFs all seem amazing. If they are a quarter of the TF Camille was, then you are lucky. More psychology than government, probably, but the point of the class is to apply psychology to politics so it makes sense. You'll leave the class being able to apply the knowledge to political phenomenons, news, etc. Great class if you have little prior knowledge and politics but want to explore the field.
Good class, kind of fluffy
It is a very good and interesting class. My only qualm was that it felt a little too much like a broad survey class, and I would have liked to focus deeply on things more.
This is a good course and Enos is an effective lecturer. For such a narrow topic, you learn a lot about the influencing factors on voter behavior.
Good course with a slightly random syllabus. Hard to follow at times because political psychology integrates psych studies and politics. Enjoyable but the midterms are are minute details of the readings that can be slightly boring. It isn't enough to get what the article is about for the midterms because he tests minutia of little importance. Great lectures and enjoyable.
If you're interested by the topic, definitely take it.
The course is great, professor enos is a great guy who really makes an effort to get to know each individual in the class, making the course an extremely personable experience, not just another day in another lecture. however, do be cautious about the group project. if you are not someone who likes working in groups with people you dont know/if you have a hectic schedule/if you do not like depending on undependable people, be careful about what you are getting yourself into. it is a shame because the course if TERRIFIC in all other aspects, but it is just important to be weary of the group project because you are required to work with people you do now know, and you have very little guidance (as a matter of fact, virtually no guidance)when it comes to administering the research and analyzing it--which is not something that is just easy to figure out. thus, given that it is a large portion of your overall grade, the project can be a very stressful situation and if it is not something you are up for, it is important to keep that in mind
Interesting and fun.
I would tell students to just make sure to keep up with the reading and your life will be much easier.  Also, make sure to read for the big concepts and the IDS for the finals.  If you read for the big concept, any question you have on the midterm or final will be manageable because even though it is detail specific, the overall concept of the reading will lead you to the right answer.
It's not the best structured, and it covered a lot of basic material in the field. If it's a subject you've already read on, you may be better served with a higher-level, smaller course. I believe I got good grades, despite little effortbut then, my peers, even very smart ones, seemed not to, so I'm not entirely sure what is the up with that.
Very interesting subject matter and engaging teaching staff, but strange focus on testing close-reading of the readings over understanding of the class theories in the two (!) midterms.
This course will make you engage significantly with psychological studies and theories. Going to lecture is a great experience, although the midterms are entirely drawn from the readings. Not too much work and interesting.
It's a lot of fun but also a lot of reading. One of the more time-consuming gov classes
Really interesting material taught by a great professor who puts time into getting to know his students. The midterm questions will be more specific than you might expect, so be prepared for that! The reading load can be a bit heavy at times, but all the material is fantastic. Definitely consider this class if you have an interest in American politics, race relations and racism, elections, etc.
This is a great course with a lot of very interesting material! It is a lot of work and you need to be on top of the readings, but it definitely has a lot of real world applications!
There is a decent amount of reading for the course, and the lectures are pretty boring. But the subject itself has a lot of interesting aspects.
Unless this class changes drastically, I would not even consider taking it.  It sounds interesting (and is) but the head aches aren't worth it.  You put in so much effort and get very little out.  And a bad grade.  If I'd taken this pass fail, I may have enjoyed it.
This is a very interesting course with fun lectures and not too difficult.
Be ready to read a LOT.
If you the work into this class, you will get SO much out of it.
The workload is very easy and minimal. However, the grading is unnecessarily harsh and the midterms focusing on small details of the reading does not help with fully learning the material holistically. While Professor Enos is a good lecturer and tries to reach out to students, there are better gov courses out there. If you are better at writing essays than taking multiple choice exams, this class may not be good for you.
The quizzes were very difficult because they focused solely on specific details of experiments, rather than large, important concepts; definitely a GPA deflator because of the quizzes; sections were often boring because the TF did not teach, but instead only facilitated discussion; however, this was a very interesting class that has helped me look at political events differently.
This class looks easy and it's not. The midterms ask very nitpicky questions about the reading
material is great, but the organization of exams is awful. the midterms should be more like the final
The material and ideas were really the strengths of the class. Make sure you get a good TF, that will make ALL the difference. Make study groups for midterms!
While it's listed as a government class, we learned much more psychology than we did about politics. I took it as a freshman to sample the government department but instead the class was more than 80% psychology. If you're open to that, then take this class! But if you're looking for a class thats more politics and government oriented, look elsewhere. However, thats not to say that this class wasn't interested because it really, really was very interesting! If you do decide to take the class, do the readings. Don't even try skipping one. Midterms are multiple choice questions based purely on the tiny details of the readings (no you can not get by on summaries of the main ideas!).
Good readings. The lectures were a bit boring at times with all of the political theories.
Don't waste your time with this speculation and usually tenuous connections to recent political phenomena.
Way to much reading and beware of midterm exams.
This course is a great discussion of political phenomena and how psychology can be applied to them. It is definitely relevant and is presented in an engaging way with a great teaching staff. Sometimes in lecture it may be hard to see how all of the concepts logically follow each other, but if you can take the time to organize them, it will all make sense. Definitely worth taking!
I AM PUTTING THIS IN ALL CAPS SO YOU'LL READ IT: Please, please, please be aware this class a MAJOR bias. It is pretty interesting and I would still recommend it. However, be SKEPTICAL. Realize that not only does each lecture have a partisan slant but each reading does as well. The whole course is designed to enforce certain messages.
definitely worth taking, very different view of political science. Much more applicable and less theoretical than most of Gov. Dept's offerings
Take this class if you like understanding how people interact and why they interact in certain ways
Its interesting, but the tests are difficult and it is not the best class
Great class - thoroughly disillusions you with elections, but at the same time, hopefully makes you a better voter. The research project is interesting, although somewhat time-intensive, and the readings are well picked and (for the most part) interesting.
One of the more interesting classes I've taken at Harvard. I always enjoy a class that makes me think differently outside of the classroom. I came out of this class thinking about how people's minds work and why they do what they do in every situation. And I had the tools to better understand. It was really fun.
Lecture's early but entirely unnecessary - take it for the fascinating reading and hope you get a good section leader
Take this class if you're interested in studying politics on a personal rather than institutional level - really great course and Professor Enos is an awesome lecturer - the hour and a half will fly by, I promise! Also really applicable to almost anything
It was alright, but I think a lot other people really liked it.
This class is the best class I've taken so far. It's very topical, and very relevant. (Although by the time it's offered again the election season will be over. Still take it, though.) Professor Enos is really great, and his lectures are very engaging. This course sets the benchmark for an excellent course, in my opinion.
Great class, Enos is a very engaging lecturer and has a lot of interesting perspective on the variety of topics covered. There are weekly readings but if you stay on top of them they are not bad, they are ESSENTIAL to doing well on the midterm, which directly test the readings, as well as the final, which asks you to use theories from the readings. They are typically shorts and mostly interesting. Section can be a bit superficial but is useful if you didn't understand a reading and the main points are reviewed. TAKE THE CLASS Enos is a really amazing lecturer who incorporates current events to make the class extremely relevant
The midterms are focused solely on the readings which means going to lecture is not very important... For the final it is more about application but even then the lectures did not help so much... The professor likes to walk up and down the stairs in Jefferson a lot.
make sure to do all of the readings yourself and not in a study group
Keep up with the readings. I didn't and regretted it
This class is really awesome. If you can keep up with your work independently and make a point to go lecture, this will be really worth it. Enos is fascinating to listen to, and class has real-world implications that make the experience worthwhile
Do readings, form study groups, and start the experiments early.Try applying the concepts to current day events is a fun way to study and reinforce the ideas.
This class is really interesting and Professor Enos is extremely engaging. The lectures are informative and rich in content. While the exams can be a bit tricky, the course as a whole is a really valuable one.
The subject matter is great, but lectures (while interesting) are a little long, and the exams will be entirely on the specific studies in the readings, which are many and dense.
Very good class that teaches a lot of useful info. Midterm multiple choice are hard, final essays are hard. Make sure you do ALL the readings ON TIME. It can be difficult but it's totally worth it. Prof. Enos is great, and really cares about the students. Follow him on twitter if you take the class.
This isn't the easiest course you can take at Harvard, but it's well worth the extra effort. Come for the psychology but stay for the research methods training.
This is a great class if you're interested in either psychology or political science and a must take if you like both. It's not that challenging/time-consuming and could definitely be a 5th class (~50 pages of reading a week, and you can mostly get away with just the abstract). Enos is an AMAZING lecturer and you'll find yourself questioning and wondering a lot about political outcomes you'd otherwise take for granted. Yes, psychology can be a bit handwavy at times, but Enos does his best with it. If you liked SLS20 and want something a bit similar, definitely take this.
Great class! You should really take it, Prof. Enos is one of the best lecturers in the gov department (imo).
This is an interesting course with a dynamic professor, but exams are horribly tricky.
Take this class! You learn a lot of relevant, fascinating things without an extreme amount of exertion.
This is a class that you can be sure you will do well in if you do the reading. The lectures are interesting. Prof. Enos is an excellent lecturer who encourages class discussion despite the fact that there are nearly 100 student show enroll, which is really impressive.
(1) A great primer on social experiments; (2) A great complement to courses like behavioral economics, (3) A great complement to courses like American politics, which spend a lot of time using mostly rational choice tools to study why and how people vote
Not the easiest but definitely manageable. Enos can try to nab you for not coming to lecture in assessments.
You will learn a lot of interesting and relevant psychological phenomenon as they pertain to politics.
The most unique part of this course is how open Professor Enos is to questions. During lecture, he encourages questions and students challenging the material. This really helped me develop a critical eye. Just because a study has been done by famous researchers does not mean that their findings should be automatically believed. Research designs can almost always be improved, and this class was a good platform for discussions about that topic.
Assessments require a very nuanced and specific grasp on the material.
It was interesting but more difficult than it initially seems
Do the readings closely and prepare extensively for the exam but otherwise enjoy the content and try to be engaged as possible
This was pretty light, especially if you are a science major.  For the exams, you literally just have to memorize the reaadings
Go to all lectures and keep up with readings!
This is an excellent class that I highly recommend. Political psychology adds another dimension to understanding government that is very important.
One of the best courses in Harvard. Take this course if you are wondering how political actors behave and the intersection of two of the most interesting phenomenon in our world: politics and psychology. This course looks at some amazing material and is extremely interesting, Professor Enos is one of Harvard's best professors, and the readings, while quite long only 2 or 3 of the 10 weeks, are amazing and more than worth.
This course is interesting and can be pretty interesting, but there is a lot of reading and a lot of studies that you have to keep track of.
The class isn't really what you think its going to be, at least from my experience. I thought it would be more about the behavior of politicians with specific examples and stories and such. This happens with the Groupthink topic but thats really it. Additionally the course is noticeably biased in a liberal way. While this is noted in some of the readings and even in class, it still is evident. Conservatives were at times ridiculed as authoritarian, oriented toward dominance, racist or bigots, all not very nice or true sentiments. While Tetlock's refutations were considered, they were also dismissed. A class that is not designed in this manner would be more interesting and valid, even though college has shown to liberalize.
I loved this class!! Professor Enos is an amazing professor who makes the lectures fun and engaging. Though it was a 10 AM class, I never dreaded going because I knew lecture would be informative and interesting. Plus, it was fun seeing Professor Enos try to memorize everyone's names, but get them wrong consistently. If you're at all interested in the interdisciplinary field (or as Professor Enos would call it-- the marriage) of psychology and government, I would highly recommend this class. The only thing I would warn you about is the midterm exam. The questions are pretty detailed and minutia and mostly based off of the readings.
Interesting Gov class and as long as you study for the midterm/final and form study groups you should be good.
great course and you learn a lot but the assessments are based on nitpicky details of the readings
Professor Enos is an expert in his field and an all around accessible and interested professor. You definitely have to keep up with readings week by week.
Great lectures, great discussions, but so politically biased that it harms political psychology
Professor Enos is probably one of the most engaging professors I've had the privilege to study under.
Interesting but pretty labor intensive.
It's a great class for you to understand how the human mind works when it tries to figure out the complexities of politics
The readings for this class are execessive. Many of them are research papers, which makes reading them very tedious, dry, and--often times--unengaging. If you are not someone who enjoy reading research writing, you will not enjoy the readings in the class. Additionally, there are a lot of assigned reading, so I would be careful about taking this course if you do not have much time to read them. Finally, the multiple choice portions of the midterm and final can be frustrating because the questions--for the most part--focus solely on the readings, and often times ask very detailed questions about them. Also, the readings are referenced in the multiple-choice questions by their authors and the year they were published; this can be difficult if you don't take the time to remember the authors of each reading.
The course can be a bit dull, and that it's at 10 am is a real killer. The quizzes at the beginning of every section are also annoying (though thankfully you can opt out of their counting.) Enos definitely has an interest in what he's teaching, but it doesn't really translate into passion in students. He seemed nice though, and was approachable on the whole.
This is a great class. Enos is a very interesting lecturer and the studies are super super interesting. Do the reading and go to class. Also Enos is a super interesting nice guy so go to office hours and get to know him. Start the project a little early so you don't have to stress about it. This class is very manageable and you will get a lot out of it. Take it!
This class would be a great way for freshmen and sophomores to explore the topics and methods of political science. If you're thinking about Government as a concentration, take this course. Professor Enos is an engaging lecturer and does a good job introducing concepts to people unfamiliar with psychology and political science. If you're a senior, it's a really interesting and easy course.
This course will open your eyes to a lot of human behavior that you do and how others behave as well.
The exam format, particularly for the midterm, should be changed. Multiple choice, despite Professor Enos' system for revising the tests, is not an appropriate method of assessment. It provides a disadvantage to the students that work hard, do the readings, and study, and gives a (relative) advantage to students that have not worked hard. Particularly for the subjects covered in this course, it simply does not provide an adequate opportunity for students to demonstrate their knowledge of course materials.
First, the good about this course. It covers interesting material, provides the opportunity for original research (through the final project), and Enos is a fairly engaging lecture. The readings are not too overwhelming, and section was useful.Now, please bear with me, because there are some things any student considering taking this course should be warned about. First, the midterm. despite having asked several times, we were never provided with the breakdown of the sections of the midterm and their weighting for our grade before or during the exam. I had no idea how to balance my time because I didn't know how much the essay part was worth, and ended up spending 50% of my time writing a well-reasoned, lengthy essay, not knowing that only 10% of my grade was determined by this. (Enos mentioned it wouldn't weigh too much, but never provided any breakdown.) I have never taken an exam at Harvard where this was the case. (I do credit him for rectifying this for the final exam, though.) In addition, it was never made clear to us that if we did not know the authors and years of the readings, we would not be able to answer some of the questions on the midterm. I read every single reading covered on the midterm, but because I didn't memorize the names of the authors and the year the article was published, I missed quite a few questions. That is a poorly written exam, and this was never made clear in lecture or on the midterm information handout. We were provided with a SINGLE sample question (no other exam prep material whatsoever), and that sample question included some background information so that it was easy to identity the reading being tested leading one to think that would be the case for all questions; this was not the case for 5-8 of the midterm questions. The vast majority of our section agreed, and we raised this to our section leader to pass onto Enos. He never acknowledged it at all, and instead claimed he had to write a difficult midterm to obtain a distribution. Please keep this in mind in deciding whether to take this course. Second, if you're politically conservative, this class will alienate you and make you feel uncomfortable. (All of my conservative friends in the course agreed with me completely. That's saying something.) I was very glad to see Prof. Enos make a point to say at the beginning of the semester that he tries to be balanced and present both sides. However, his actions did not follow his rhetoric. Here's just one of many examples. Enos concluded one lecture by showing class data that showed that seniors were slightly more liberal than freshmen. (I'll ignore the small sample size, the very weak effect, and the fact that sophomores and juniors did not show a similar pattern of increasing liberalism as they get older.) His final words of the lecture were that this data suggests that once students have had a few years of being "socialized" at Harvard, they modify their views to be more in line with what they "should" be. This was incredibly offensive, misleading, and wrong. This was the first time at Harvard where I've felt a professor was showing explicit bias against those of one political ideology, and it was done behind the guise of factual evidence. Harvard prides itself on being open-minded, welcoming of all perspectives, and diverse, but I felt antagonized and unwelcome during this (and several other) lectures. A Harvard professor should never do this.I'll close by just noting that these comments are not made out bitterness from poor performance in the course. (I did quite well in this class.) I'm only offering these comments to help improve the course moving forward, and draw attention to some real issues.
This is ultimately a psychology and research methods class with examples taken from and applications made to politically salient issues. If you're looking for a class that focuses on the implications of the research, then pick another class.
If you've ever really thought about politics before or have taken any psychology, this class is extremely obvious.
Its a great course but be prepared to work very hard!
This class covers a variety of very fascinating theories of psychology and applies them to politics. Background knowledge of politics would be helpful, but is not necessary. Keep in mind that there is a much heavier reading load than other courses, and exam questions can be quite detail-oriented. However, discussions are very interesting and students get to create their own political psychology experiment. Audrey is also a great TF who is very engaged, approachable, and willing to help students!
Professor Enos is a fantastic lecturer, and has created a very good syllabus. But the class cannot be separated from atrocious measurement tools. The standard for the projects was so low that one member of my 3-person team did the entire project in 2 hours, and we were selected as the best from our section. The exams--particularly the multiple choice--are pointlessly specific and actually, I would argue, detrimental to learning in that they force you to study like you're in high school again, reading for terms to memorize rather than trying to use the material in any creative or analytical way.
This course was an interesting class for people who don't have too much experience in psychology or government but want to learn about both.  The lectures covered a range of interesting topics, but don't expect to leave the class an expert.
This class is not only extremely interesting, but also very applicable to the real world. I loved how we took the information we learned and then applied it to real events and people.
The exams are primarily questions on the conclusions/methods from the readings and concepts from lecture. So, make sure you do the readings and know the main points from each study. The only homework is readings so its easy to keep up with them if you do them as they're due.
This course is interesting and engaging, and it covers a large amount of information. Make sure to stay on top of your readings because they are very important for the final and midterm. This class is not easy, but it is worth it if you're interested in gov or psych.
I loved this class. The topics we covered - Obama's election, partisanship, etc - were very interesting Professor Enos is a great teacher. He takes the time to learn everyones' name. The group project was fun and not too difficult. Overall a great class.
This is a really great course that ties in basic psych principles with political science. Kris-Stella makes the class really interesting, and she's an amazing lecturer. The material is super interesting and the readings are pretty light, and it doesn't feel like a lot of homework because it's cool to read.
This is a wonderful class! Take it if you can!
The class covered interesting topics but the readings were very dull and uninteresting and often talked about terms in very broad senses and only in lecture did we really get down to what these terms meant in the political realm. The weekly response paper also added a lot of work to the weekly homework.
This was a great class in understanding contemporary political phenomenon today.  It delves into mental heuristics and how that impacts political decisions.
This class is so fascinating. The readings are fairly light, but incredibly relevant to life and one's interests (assuming that is why they enrolled in the course). I highly recommend taking this course to anyone interested in the intersection of politics, media, race, and psychology.
The class is fairly easy and very interesting however there is a final project, an essay, and a final exam! They aren't the hardest in the world but they all fall at the end of the semester.
Good class.
One of the most fun classes at Harvard! If you're even considering this class take it! I myself am a natural science concentrator but this class is the perfect bridge into the social sciences. Despite being considered an 'upper level' course anyone could and should do it.  You get to learn about why we vote and behave the way we do, so this class is extremely relevant to today. This course encourages participation throughout the lecture, so you're working with the material as you learn. The surveys in the class help you to also see the concepts we cover in class and even apply them to yourself. 20% of the grade is based on the section, which forces you to engage the material and interact with it, tying it back to topics covered previously in the course. The research project was my favorite, because you get to have fun with the course as well. Professor Trump is really accessible and is eager to help students. Despite the lecture format, she knows many students by name. You'll surprise yourself with how eager you are to participate in lecture.
This is an excellent course which will help you think about politics in more nuanced ways. Definitely work taking regardless of whether you are interested in American politics, as the subject matter applies to comparative politics and IR.
This was a really interesting and thought-provoking class at certain points, but also totally manageable in terms of workload. However, sometimes I felt unsatisfied with the material that we were learning because there was a huge liberal bias and I am not liberal. Otherwise, it was a good class. I enjoyed it and have no regrets about taking it.
Taking this class before you graduate is an absolute must, either as an elective concentration or secondary requirement. I have never been in a class at Harvard where I genuinely enjoyed and excited about all the readings. Professor Trump is truly one of the best and her enthusiasm for and knowledge in the field comes through in her lectures.
An extremely insightful, thought-provoking class. Not your typical psychology course. Topics are very well-organized, case studies are interesting, and the assignments encourage broader thinking and connections. The group research project can be a challenge - requires some knowledge of data analysis not really provided by the course, and the timing could have been more generous - but overall a decent way of applying the knowledge gained from the course while applying research design skills also introduced by the course.
This is one of the most rewarding classes I have taken at Harvard. It is extremely well taught, has interesting readings, and covers a fascinating and important topic in today's world. I learned so much about how people think and reach political conclusions. If you have even a shred of interest in politics, this is a must-take course.
If you're at all interested in politics take this class. The topics covered were often fascinatingly counter-intuitive, and really open your eyes to how America's "democracy" really works. You'll come away with a fundamental understanding of things like are people ideological, what role did race play in Obama's election, what race has to do with people's opposition to welfare, is America becoming more polarized, does media have an effect on opinion, etc etc and the answers are usually not obvious. The class is also well structured, has manageable and interesting reading assignments, and sometimes tricky but reasonable exams. I took this class as an elective and would highly recommend it!
If you are interested in the course, then you will succeed. Very interesting through and through. Be prepared to read about two pieces a week and write a weekly response paper. The exams were not very difficult, and aptly evaluated course-wide knowledge. The project was both interesting and engaging, creating interesting material to discuss in class. Overall, I would recommend this class to anyone who is interested in the title.
This class wasn't the most interesting, because there haven't been really that many ground-breaking discoveries and a lot of it overlaps over the course of the semester. But it's really not that much work and you never have to write papers aside from mini weekly responses.
Professor Trump is truly an amazing lecturer with her pre-lecture music and encouragement of students' opinions to lectures. The course is very interesting analyzing why people act and think about politics in certain ways. Moreover, the assignments are fair and even distributed throughout the course to help you retain material. I would definitely recommend this course.
This is a really interesting course that covers many different aspects of psychology and government. You do not need any knowledge of psychology going in, for the course covers the different concepts pretty well. And do the reading thoroughly. There are not many of them per week and they are useful.
This class has interesting subject material, but leaves a lot to be desired in terms of engaging with the material in a substantive way. It is a lot of memorization and learning of facts.
Prof. Trump is an excellent and engaging lecturer, and I would encourage future students to check out this class. The course is about understanding what motivates political behavior and is readily applicable outside the classroom.
easy, fun, and interesting class. Good mix of psychology and political science.
