A good introduction to political institutions and political economy, taught by two professors with lots of great insights. But at least in my year, the discussion sometimes felt lacking.
Great opportunity to learn from two of the best!
This course is useful as a springboard into topics or papers that may be of interest (e.g. the papers are interesting), but the course itself can sometimes be slow and boring.  The professors are very knowledgeable and work well together, but can sometimes lecture too much.  Discussion in class is limited, and sometimes obscure/tangential/uninteresting.
A good introduction to interest and legislative politics in a variety of settings, both empirical and formal, but principally in the US context.
This is a course for thinking of research ideas, not learning methods.
It's a really interesting course, and Ken and Jeff are great guys!  If you are interested in political economy (which isn't really offered seriously at the undergraduate level), then take this course.  You get out what you put in.
Taking a class with Ken and Jeff is a great idea.
This course provides students with a great background in economic policy and political institutions. Class discussion encourages students to go beyond the readings and discuss the issues at hand in a debate-like format. The course really allow students to explore what interests them most, as the final paper is a research paper and topics are selected by students with the advice of the instructors.
Useful seminar - start working on finding paper topic as early as possible, start working on paper as early as possible. Class useful, but much much more useful if basically used as a platform for testing (and implementing)a research idea.
Students looking to work on political economy issues should take this course.
the more you do the readings and participate, the more you will get out from this course
take this course after EC 2020a, EC 2020b
This is an excellent class and a rare chance to get two brilliant political economy specialists with very different styles to play off of each other intellectually each and every week.
Excellent discussions on various political economy topics. Nice mix of theory and applications. Opposing views of the two professors often enable very interesting exchanges in class.
A good class, but best for people with formal or economic theory experience.
Great introduction to the political economy literature. There are few incentives to finish the seminar paper during the semester itself (as opposed to taking an incomplete).
To hear Professors Shepsle and Frieden bounce ideas off of one another alone is reason to take the class.
It is an excellent introductory course on the subject.
Informative and fun!
