This class is an amazing intellectual experience and you'll come out of it much more knowledgeable than you went in.
You should take this course before you leave Harvard.
This is definitely one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard, if not the best. Learning about Latin America is interesting, gripping, and relevant. However, I would sign up for any class about pretty much anything just to have Professor Levitsky again!
They may seem arbitrary, but there's no way to determine what readings are valuable without doing them all. Don't blow off the first essay.
Probably the best class I took at Harvard in 4 years. Levitsky's enthusiasm and clear structure make up for any lack of previous knowledge/interest in Latin America
It's like drinking from a fire hose, but the water's good.
I would recommend taking this course even if you are unsure about how interested you are in Latin America because you will develop a strong interest in Latin America as a result of the engaging and interesting way the information is presented to you. This course has undoubtedly been the best I have taken at Harvard thus far.
amazing!
This class helped me understand modern Latin America and comparative politics in general.
The lectures are so great! Do the readings so that you will be better prepared for section and for the midterm papers.
This is an amazing course about Latin American politics taught by a true genius in the field.  TAKE IT!
Be prepared for it to be VERY "Government-y" -- meaning that it is all about attempting to explain major phenomena with relatively simple theories. You will learn a lot, and be expected to remember a lot. Lots of reading and work. Papers can be confusing. Not painful, but you will be inundated with material. Oh, also, the course focuses mainly on Argentina, Chile, Peru, Mexico, Brazil and Venezuela, and spends a little time on Ecuador. Don't expect much on Central America.
There is an insane amount of reading, but if you just got a general idea of what each writer says, it's enough.
The mix of history and political sciences is great. This class is necessary for those who know virtually nothing about Latin America and want to catch up.
Read the newspaper and be willing to think about latin american politics WITHOUT using the United States as a reference point.
If you can type fast, this class is for you.  Levitsky may rattle facts off at lightning speed but the lectures are interesting, he keeps it lively and is very welcoming to students.  Two thumbs up!
This is one of the best classes I've taken so far.  You leave each lecture really having learned something, and then the readings push you beyond what you've just been told.  The essays are good to write and focus on the main ideas of the course, so there's not much busy work.  It's a great great great class.
It is a lot of reading but the course is worth it. Lectures are great and make you want to attend them. Professor Levitsky is really interested in getting to know you and will go out of his way to ensure that you enjoy the course.
This course is an excellent survey of Latin American politics and provides a lot of introductory government material. Professor Levitsky is an engaging and exciting lecturer, and makes students genuinely interested in what he is teaching.
Levitsky great lecturer - teaching staff are a close team.
It is a great introduction to Latin America, and a great foundation for understanding current events, but it is a lot of information, and a lot of countries! so as long as they bear that in mind, and try not to feel too overwhelmed, then it is fine. i think the final does a good job of taking this into account.
This is an amazing class.  Levitsky was one of my favorite professors at Harvard.
interesting topic, fantastic lecture
This class is amazing. I learned more in one semester about Latin America than I had in all my years of school before this. Professor Levitsky's lectures are great and you will get a lot out of it.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard, and for anyone with an interest in either Latin America, or Politics and Economics, this is a fantastic fusion of the three areas of study.
It's fascinating and well taught, but there is SO MUCH reading.
Very good course to gain general understanding of politics and economics in Latin America.
Levitsky alone is worth taking the class. Dynamic lecturer and a really nice guy, very approachable. Latin America is also a region that doesn't get enough attention, and this class helps cover the history and the comparative politics involved.
Be prepared for a lot of reading.
Steven Levitsky is an amazing lecturer.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.
To not get behind on the reading!
This is an excellent introduction to comparative politics and to latin america.
The professor is easily one of the most enthusiastic professors that I've come across at Harvard and he presents the information in such an engaging way that it is fun to attend class and see how all the readings are brought together in one lecture.  I would absolutely recommend this class.
It was a great class with a professor that clearly loves his job. Furthermore, the TFs were just as passionate and qualified.
I would recommend taking if if you're interested in Latin America.
Don't miss out on this gem of a class. I am so glad I took it.
more politics-y than i was expecting
I would highly recommend this course, especially for students with an interest in government or planning to concentrate in government.  This course will give you not only information about Latin American politics but also general knowledge about writing Government papers, thinking about how to approach understanding political science questions--all of which are helpful for taking courses like Gov 97a and 97b which are generally less structured and less information based.
Even better than Gov 20, and that's saying a lot!
Take it!
Latin America is awesome, it's governments aren't...
I LOVED this class.  Professor Levitsky is a wonderful professor, and it is clear that he cares about his students. Also, the material is fascinating and relevant to many disciplines.  It was not terribly demanding, and I learned a lot.
it is a very thorough way to learn about modern day latin america. there is no way you won't learn a ton about the governmental systems in each country, especially after studying for the final. be careful of levitsky's really fast-paced, information-packed hour and a half long lectures-- it's easy to get lost in all the material but entertaining and great information to have, especially if you're planning on traveling to latin america in the near future.
I would rave about Professor Levitsky's lectures. I went into the class having taken Spanish language classes my entire life but knowing almost nothing about Latin America. I came out with a much greater understanding of the entire region and am so happy I took the course. I would say that doing all of the reading is both unnecessary and not the best use of your time, since it is an absurd amount and it's much better to synthesize the important parts through skimming rather than reading every single word. (Sorry!)
It's really interesting--take it!
I would tell them that I loved the class, and that the teachers were excellent. I would only warn them that they should be prepared to read a lot.
This class is a lot of work, but it's worth it - especially if you are very interested in Latin America.
Be prepared for a lot of readings.
The lecture component of this course is incredibly interesting and engaging for someone with an interest in Latin America and world politics. It is unbelievable how much information one can absorb about the region in such a short time. The section component, however, can be lacking in terms of the level of discussion that the material provokes.
This is one of the best courses at Harvard.
This course is designed for students who are willing to do the coursework and the readings judiciously. You must be interested in either Levitsky or LA because without it, you will fall behind and that does not bode well for papers or the final exam.
If you want to learn about Latin America, this is the place to go!
Not easy but you will learn a ton and have some fun too.
That the course I amazing.
While the amount of reading material is quite large, it is entirely possible to sift through the non-essential readings by using techniques such as skimming, reading the conclusions/intros for key points etc and save a considerable amount of time. Other than that, the lectures were stimulating and sections were generally involved. An interesting and throughly enjoyable course.
There's a LOT OF READING.  But it's totally worth it because the lectures and sections are great.
Definitely one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. You don't want to miss the chance to take it!
Interesting material and engaging professor! Readings are time-consuming.
This is a great intoduction to a part of the world I had never studied before, and was enthusiastically and expertly taught. Just be prepared for a heavy reading load.
Fantastic lecturer, fantastic section leaders, fascinating subject matter
Be ready to do A LOT of reading!
the course is very interesting
That Prof. Levitsky is one of the best and friendliest professors you will ever have.
It's a lot of work, but it's definitely rewarding in the end when you realize how much of Latin American politics you actually have learned.
This class is HARD. If you're just looking to fulfill Social Analysis core, think seriously about taking another class, because it is a ton of work. However if you have a real interest in the course material (or just Levitsky), then I would definitely recommend this class. You do have to have some goal or ultimate motivation in mind throughout to get you through thousands of pages of reading and hour-and-a-half lectures, however.
Come for the lectures, stay for the readings.
most eye-opening class you can  take on Latin America.
LEVITSKY IS AMAZING.
It is a good class, but as said lectures were long and at least my section was a little disappointing.
Get on top of your readings early and it will be much easier to stay engaged.
The readings were insane-- there were two huge coursepacks, both over 700 pages long (not even counting the books we had to buy).  There is no way that you will ever do it all.  The essays and finals are very fair.  It's a great class, and is presented in a method that makes it even better.
If you are thinking about taking the class as just an elective, you should be warned that the workload is pretty heavy and for some people who aren't interested in politics/Latin America it might not be worth it. But the course does a brilliant job of informing you of what is going on in Latin American politics - I came in knowing literally nothing about the topic and came out understanding the region and its politics a LOT better.
If you even have a remote bit of interest in this area, one that's becoming increasingly important in the modern world, you should definitely take and will enjoy the course.
A lot of reading and interesting lectures.  Will give you good background on Latin American history and politics.
It's a great class minus ALL the reading. If you're ready to put forth a lot of effort into the reading, then you'll enjoy the course immensely.
take this class !
It was the class I was excited to attend day in and out. Levitsky makes lecture enjoyable and section discussion is an invaluable resource.
Prof. Levitsky is one of the best professors you will have at Harvard. You will learn a ton about politics in general and Latin America in specific.
Keep up with readings, but be realistic about the reading you can do.
There's a ton of reading, though you don't have to do all of it. Make sure you join a study group. Don't skip lecture and start studying for the final early.
The readings seem ridiculous but only do the few that are necessary and the course is entirely manageable.
This is one of the best courses at Harvard. Levitsky is amazing and the readings are interesting.  Take this class.
It is the most amazing class I've taken so far! The lectures are great (didn't miss any) and the material is fascinating. It is the best way to study and understand what goes on in Latin America.
Lots of reading.  Be prepared.
There is an INSANE amount of reading, however the class is worth taking and is probably one of the best at Harvard. The teaching staff is very supportive and the professor is awesome. Study groups are a must.
take it, you will learn a lot, if you are worried about the difficulty just remember to always skim readings. prof levitsky's lectures are great at clarifying/pointing out what is actually important.
A great overview of Latin American politics, especially of major Latin American countries. Levitsky's lectures are amazing!
This class is amazing. You learn so much, and it is truly interesting.
excellent class, Levitsky is AMAZING, but the reading is out of this world
This is easily one of the best classes on campus and is taught by the best lecturer on campus. This should be a must on every students schedule once during their four years at Harvard.
do the readings! (and go to class, levitsky is fabulous)
Professor Levitsky is an extremely charismatic lecturer who keeps his students engaged.  However, try to keep up with the readings, or else all of the case studies will start to get jumbled up.
Talk to Professor Levitsky. He really makes an effort to get to know his students. Do the right thing, and reciprocate.
This course, though requiring a vast amount of reading and a significant time and energy commitment, is a thorough and engaging broad study of Latin American politics since independence.  I strongly recommend it.
Excellent class. Levitsky's lectures are clear and packed with interesting material. You will leave with a great understanding of Latin America's current situation and how it got there.
Levitsky is my favorite professor of Latin American politics! Knowledgeable, frank, and quite the handsome devil, this modest man is a modern marvel.
Great class, you will learn a lot, but make flashcards of key people as you go along because it is impossible to cram all of those Spanish names into your head right before the final.
Despite the fact that I had some difficulties with this course, I definitely do not regret taking it. This is an important topic about a region of the world which our actions affect, and yet about which many of us are appallingly ignorant. That said you should be prepared to take in a lot of information and to do quite a bit of reading. Cherish those outlines!
skim the reading - reading the intro + conclusion + first and last sentence of each paragraph is a great way to get the main point out of an article (as my TF showed in section)In class while taking notes, try to make sure you get down the main points. You don't need to know the minutiae or very specific information that Prof. Levitsky offers to give you a concrete idea of what was going on. You need to know the main ideas - why was leader X important, what are the theories that explain why Y happened, etc.
Gov 1295 is the best class I have taken at Harvard, hands down. Professor Levitsky is passionate about the topic, a great lecturer, and really cares about students. The class is a great blend of theory and historical cases, and you will come away with a much deeper understanding of Latin America and the issues it faces, as well as about comparative politics in general. It's worth every minute you put into it.
The more you put into this class the more you get out of it
This class is incredibly interesting, but to do it properly takes a lot of time reading.
Very good course. You will learn A LOT... but there is a ton of reading, and a lot of eager freshmen tend to do it all, so you may stick out in section if you don't do a good portion of it
This class is a TON of reading but completely worth it.  Work on summaries of main theses of 2 main authors every week throughout the course and define terms to know from lecture.  This will make studying for the final infinitely easier!  You really get as much out of this course as you put into it.
THIS CLASS is AMAZING! Levitsky is one of the BEST lecturers in Harvard and one of the people that you can really see has a passion for what he is teaching and a passion for passing this on to other people.
This is a hard class, but it's freaking awesome. Levitsky is cool.
It is the best class I have taken at Harvard. The subject is very interesting and the Professor is incredible.
Take this class pass-fail or audit it. Levitsky's lectures are amazing, but the reading and assignments are not worth the effort.
Be prepared to read.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading. At the end, however, it's worth it.
Levitsky is amazing. Honestly one of the greatest lecturers you'll find at Harvard. And if you reach out and take advantage of the opportunities to ask for help and seek support, you'll be incredibly rewarded. TAKE THIS CLASS!
Take Levitsky! He is a great lecturer and incredibly informative.
Keep up with your readings -FORM STUDY GROUPS.
This is a course for people who are and who might not be too interested in Latin America. If you are, it gives you a great picture of the development prospects for the country. If you are not, it will make you discover a lot of interesting things about this region of the world and how it has often challenged the political theories that applied everywhere else.
Levitsky is a very engaging lecturer and cares about getting to know his students.
This course is truly amazing. Levitsky is one of the greatest lecturers I've ever had in my life and the opportunity to take a class with him should not be passed up. There is a lot of reading in the class (3 giant coursepacks and 4 books...) but it is really good stuff and if you put in the time you will learn so much about not only Latin American politics but about our own political system and other systems around the world. You will come out with a greater appreciation for the democratic process and you will be much more critical and analytical about political systems. Even if you have a difficult schedule and perhaps won't have time to do a lot of the readings, seriously consider taking this class! The great thing about Levitsky  is that his lectures are so clear and the themes of the course definitely come out from lecture so it's not that difficult to understand what he's talking about. This was truly a life changing course for me and completely formative for what I hope to do in the future. Don't pass up the opportunity!
This is one of those classes where you get as much as you put in.  If you're willing to commit to this as one of your more serious classes for the semester, you will come out of it with more knowledge of Latin American politics than you can imagine.  But it's also possibly to float through the course without reading much and still do well, you just won't know much.
This is one of the most significant courses you will take at Harvard. Even now, well into summer, I can't stop thinking about what I learned here. You will forever hold great interest in what happens in Latin America, this course generates that much enthusiasm. I think everyone should take this class
The subject matter is amazing, and Levitsky is one of the most amazing lecturers in this school.  If you have any interest in Latin America at all, you should take this course.  The reading load is near impossible, but as long as you know which readings are the most important and you focus on those, you should be okay.
Professor Levitski has organized this class very well and presents the material with great enthusiasm. Lectures are very interesting and the course material is highly informative and engaging.
AMAZING class - Levitsky is a Latin American Politics god and his lectures are amazing, TAKE THIS CLASS!
definitely take this class. the readings are great and prof. levitsky is the best lecturer i have heard at harvard.
If you are interested in Latin America, and feel, like I did, that you do not know even a quarter of what you are supposed to (for whatever reason), this class provides a solid base for further study. It lets you understand the complexity of the problems faced by the new democracies in Latin America in a very real way. In short, if Latin America is something that you are interested in, you would do a service to yourself by taking this course.
I would definitely recommend the course, but be warned the work load is heavy and there is a lot of information to digest.
I knew nothing about Latin America before but now I feel extremely comfortable with the region, its history, and its politics
Take this course. Period. This is one of the best courses offered at Harvard with an outstanding professor who truly cares about his students and goes the extra mile to make sure that everyone does well. Levitsky not only teaches you factual knowledge, but also provides you with a framework through which to analyze government.
This course has an insane amount of reading. There was more reading for this course than any other I have taken at Harvard. It often felt like a history course rather than a government course. The subject material is interesting and the professor is amazing, but be prepared to go through three course packs of reading.
Excellent professor. Interesting material. I would recommend for anyone who is interested in either Latin America or comparative politics.
Grading is steep and there is A LOT to read, unnecessarily so
Take it if you like Levitsky and are interested in Latin American politics.
Keep up with the readings.
This class has a lot of reading and the grading is quite hard. While Professor Levitsky is an amazing lecturer, the class is unnecessarily time-consuming and dense on the whole.
LOTS of reading but if you find a good reading group the class is so worth taking.
Get in a reading group otherwise you'll never come close to accomplishing all the readings. Other than that, great class. Levitsky is excellent, assignments are fair.
The course is a great way to learn about Latin America, but be prepared to read extensively.
is it possible to do all of the readings? NO. will the amount of information thrown at you be overwhelming? YES. HOWEVER. is levitsky a phenomenal lecturer? YES. is the material absolutely fascinating? YES. should you take this course? YES. (however, you might want to IMMEDIATELY form a study group and take 1 reading/week and then compile notes. only way you will possibly make a dent in the reading)
Do your response papers.
Provides such a comprehensive and compelling overview of the politics of Latin America. If you took gov 20, you will be really able to apply the theories you learned to the case of Latin America because it is one big puzzle:-) the readings are manageable if you form a study group and you have to grapple with the essays and they do require some outside knowledge I thought
Great course. Lots of reading, but the material is so interesting that it is worth it. I took this class as a natural sciences student and loved it. Certainly didn't match the stereotype for Gov classes. Take a Spanish section if offered!
This course is hard. It's an insane amount of dense reading and some very complex subject matter. That being said, it's also a great course: it teaches/reinforces the general themes and theories of comparative politics while also doing a great job of teaching about an area that I personally did not know much about. Don't take this course if you're not willing to put in many hours to do the readings, but if you're willing to put in the work, you'll have a blast.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Levitsky is incredible. Yes, there's too much reading, but as long as you know the main points of the major theoretical authors you'll be fine. I learned an incredible amount about Latin America, the workload is manageable, and lectures are very entertaining. Highly recommended.
This course is a whole lot of fun, so long as you don't let yourself get bogged down in the reading. If you do decide to take this course, either skim, read selectively, or form a study group.
It's a lot of readings, but they're generally worth doing.  Lecture is fantastic
You need to be ready to read a lot, and that would probably require an enthusiasm for 20th century Latin American history
great course with fascinating lectures! Levitsky is amazing and one the best lecturers around. Warning though: take this class with courses that have minimal reading because the amount of reading is OUT OF THIS WORLD and it is improbable that you will ever do it all. Colin is a really great TF so I would recommend him because he really breaks down the information for you. Essays are straightforward, pay attention in lecture and utilize key readings and you will be fine. Take this class if you have any interest at all in Latin America, you won't regret out!
This class is wonderful, but it is hard to do all of the reading. Doing the reading would of course make the class so much better and more fulfilling, but it is very frustrating when you do not have the time to read all of it.
This course is well taught and very organized. Levitsky is an engaging and caring professor. The information covered is interesting. However, there is so much reading, and no one does it, so section and the essays can get tedious, as everyone struggles to figure out what on earth is going on.
This is an amazing class!!!!! It is a whirlwind of information, but you will learn so much throughout the semester. Even if you don't have time to do all of the reading (aka every week), at least try to skim them and jot down the author's main argument- it will really help in section and when you're studying for the final. Levitsky is an awesome lecturer, and I highly recommend this class to anyone interested in Latin America, whether you've taken a gov class before or not!
There is a ton of reading, that's a given, but the class material is extremely interesting. Take it if you have any interest at all in Latin America. Levitsky is a great lecturer and the section does a good job of clarifying the information and the readings.
Do not take this class unless you are very interested in the topic and government as a concentration. It requires commitment in order to get the full benefits.
Please be advised that this course is very interesting but there is A LOT of reading. Study groups are great.
This course is amazing. It has been my favorite course of freshman year. Professor Levitsky is incredible and makes you want to learn all the material and do the readings. Of course, that is impossible, but nevertheless, by just going to lecture, you learn an incredible amount. I would recommend this class to anyone and everyone, regardless of concentration. That being said, it does require time and devotion; it should not be a class taken lightly, in order to get the most out of it .
If you have any interest in comparative politics and Latin AMerica, take it!
This class covers a massive amount of material and there is a lot of reading. The amount information is overwhelming at times, and the teaching staff doesn't always provide a lot of help in making sense of all of it.
this is a course for people serious about wanting to learn about latin america
There is a lot of reading. You need to be able to skim and extract the key points. You also need to do the readings (skimming is fine), both for the papers and the final. Don't get behind because it's hard to catch up. Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and you should take the class for him alone! The class has a wide variety of themes that may be interesting to lots of different people - within Latin America, we talked about economics, policy, law, war, guerrilla movements, social movements, etc. You get out of the class what you put in.
Professor Levitsky is an incredible lecturer. Take the course just for that reason. There's way too much reading! You do NOT have to do all of it. Listen carefully to Levitsky's lecturers, learn the major concepts/theories and you will be good to go!
This is an absolutely unbelievable course. I took this as a senior, and I have never learned so much. Levitsky goes through the histories of at least 6 different countries. His lectures are fantastic. However, be prepared for the workload. It is INTENSE. Don't take it unless you have the time.
Professor Levitsky is a great, enthusiastic lecturer. And the material is generally pretty interesting. There is a TON of reading to keep up with, but the actual writing that you have to produce for assignments is pretty minimal. So it feels like a lot of work sometimes but the stakes are actually pretty low if you fall behind temporarily.
Levitsky is a great lecturer, and Leslie is an awesome section leader! There is a lot of reading, but the course is very interesting and engaging!
Come to lecture. Professor Levitsky is one of the best lecturers I have had at Harvard and he does a great job of providing a comprehensive hour and a half while integrating videos and a joke here and there. Without lecture you will be lost in this class.
I have mixed feelings about this course. On the one hand, Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and you will have the joy of getting to know him at the semi-weekly lunches he has. You will also emerge from the class having an impressive knowledge of Latin America, which you can drop at cocktail parties if you care about that sort of thing. On the other hand, the material was extremely dense and there was way too much reading. Sections can be helpful depending on the TF you get. You won't be able to do all the reading. Form study groups.
Do it. Don't let the coursepacks intimidate you - you'll never read them all but it's fine. Lectures are always great (and recorded). Levitsky is the best!
This class is amazing - the reading material is great and Professor Levitsky's lecturing ability is literally unmatched (in my opinion) in most gov classes at Harvard.  If for no other reason, take this class because Levitsky is such a boss that he will excite you with new ideas and huge new concepts.  I loved the course, but like most other gov classes it had a pretty terrible section reputation.  Don't expect to be blown away by the TFs or the section component of the class, but GO TO LECTURE.  You won't regret it.
You'll definitely learn everything you've ever wanted to know about Latin American politics... if you actually have enough time to keep up with the readings and lengthy lectures. That said, Professor Levitsky is an engaging and effective lecturer, and this course is run incredibly well. Definitely worth your while if you have the time to invest in it.
One of the absolute best classes I've taken, by one of the most enjoyable professors. Do *not* miss!
A ton of readings.
Yes, the comments about the absurdly massive reading list are true. BUT this class is incredible. Levitsky is a spectacular lecturer, and the material is fascinating. You will learn a ton and gain a new perspective on Latin American politics and history. Just be prepared and know that this class is a serious time commitment (taking this class while writing a thesis is possible, but it might not have been the wisest choice). And take advantage of the student lunches!
This course offers some of the most engaging lectures you will likely find on campus. I would highly recommend the course only if you have the time during the semester to engage fully with lectures and readings, which are packed with information. If you do, and have some interest in Latin America, this course will likely be a great foundation for academic study in government. Even if you're not very interested in Latin America, much of the themes in the course will help you analyze other regions of the world.
This is a good class. For the first 5-6 weeks, it feels a little too much like a history class, though. You get the entire chronologies of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Mexico, and Venezeula from like 1890-1970 on thrown at you in about a month with some, but not a lot, of political science analysis to go along with it. Once you get to 1970-present, the class slows its pace, you start to deal with specific topics in depth (the role of the Catholic Church, neoliberal policies, Peru's Shining Path movement) and get a better sense of the academic debate surrounding these topics. The second half of the class is far superior to the first, which I found to be more like a surface-level survey class.Levitsky is a superb professor, very accessible and engaging to listen to. Having taking two classes with him this year, he never gets boring and is an absolute privilege to learn from. The class itself is about as difficult as you want to make it. If you do all of the reading and really engage with the texts (looking for broader themes, etc.) then it would probably take 14-16 hours a week, plus the time you spend on papers. Or, you can just hit the key readings and spend 5-8 hours a week on the class. Or, you can depend on section to summarize the readings for you and spend almost no time doing the readings. You can succeed in this class by choosing any of these strategies; you can also do not so well in this class in each of them. Do what works for you and what matches your level of interest in the course material.
The lectures are phenomenal and the syllabus is excellent. Great to take pass/fail as a fascinating elective, although it's still a good chunk of work.
The readings for this class are insane, but if you prioritize wisely and keep up with the massive amounts of information Levitsky throws at you in lecture, you learn so much about Latin America and its history and politics. I came into this class with zero knowledge of the region, and while I certainly am not an expert, I feel like I could have a reasonable discussion with people and not feel totally overwhelmed. While the reading and the final both seem very overwhelming, they're really not so bad, and the TF's are very accessible. Get Leslie! She's the best TF ever.
Interesting course material presented very clearly by one of the best professors at Harvard, Steven Levitsky.  Alot of readings and difficult papers.  However, I strongly recommend this class for gov concentr interested in comparative politics.
cant go through harvard gov department without taking a levitsky class.  hes the best lecturer I have had at harvard and really connects well with the students.  expectations in the class are clear and assignments fair and logical
Take this class! Professor Levitsky's lectures are outstanding and you just learn an incredible amount over the course of the semester. It's hard but very rewarding. Go to lectures (don't just watch them online); find a group of people in the class to study with; do as many readings as you can but don't stress if you don't get to all of them. The final exam was very reasonable.
Such an interesting class! A ton of reading but you definitely can get by without doing all of it. Levitsky is an awesome lecturer and you should definitely take a class with him at some point during your time at Harvard. This is an especially great class though because he is so passionate about Latin America and you'll learn a ton about a region many people don't know much about.
Levitsky is the best lecturer I have had at Harvard--he is energetic, engaging, and funny, though the lectures can be a little long.  The amount of reading is ridiculous, prioritizing is both possible and necessary.
This is an awesome class! I'm probably not going to concentrate in Gov (or anything remotely related to gov) but I found it a really valuable experience to learn about the method of thinking that gov people use. There's a lot of reading, true, but do it all and the class will be more enjoyable for you.
There is too much reading. To get a solid A, one needs to work hard on the papers and study a lot for the exam. To get a B+/A- is very attainable--do enough of the reading each week to get an idea of what's going on, and cite a lot in your papers. If you approach this course with curiosity, YOU WILL LEARN A LOT! It's enjoyable and interesting, and a good way to use a credit.
Levitsky classes are always rigorous but great, definitely take a lot away from this one and learn a great deal about the region.
It's an awesome class even though is a lot of reading. The lectures are great and the material in interesting.
Take it if you want to! Lots of hard work. Recommend getting a study group started from week 1 to help with the heavy work load and all the readings.
Great and interesting class, but be aware it covers a ton of material and will require your dedication.
A lot of reading but if you get a good TF, makes it worth it!
TAKE THIS COURSE. Levitsky is great and he really cares about his students. You will learn A LOT. And honestly, grading is more than fair. Stay on top of your readings (or reading notes) as best as possible and really try and engage with the material throughout the course.
It's a good course, but the material can be learned outside of the class.
Although it is a lot of work, definitely the best course I have taken at Harvard.
This is a wonderful course! There is SO MUCH interesting material. Literally every lecture is jam packed with facts, yet Professor Levitsky manages to synthesize and present them oh so well. He gives you theory and he gives you cases, and then ties the two together wonderfully. For someone interested in Latin America, this class is a joy. Granted, there is a ton of reading and this can be extremely daunting, but take a deep breath and hone in on your skimming skills. It's totally worth it. Steve Levitsky is a boss. That's just all there is to it.
The amount of reading assigned in this course, is, quite simply, entirely unmanageable. The course does not allow for much normative debate, either. It's good for folks who want to become PhDs in political science, but it's not as well-suited for folks interested in making political change, engaging in politics directly, or questioning the standard theories in the field. Levitsky is a great lecturer, of course, but his analysis is remarkably narrow-minded. He pretends to hold a neutral view, but his neoliberal views pervade his teachings.
Gov 1295 is an excellent (though intense) course in modern Latin American politics. If you have a real interest in the topic and are willing to devote a substantial amount of time to the class, you will be rewarded with a deep understanding of the subject.
This class was really interesting and I learned a lot about Latin America as a region and individual countries. I took the course because I'm from Latin America, and I learned a lot about my country (Venezuela) and the region. The course is typical Levtisky and has a lot of material thrown at you at one time and a ton of readings, but the main concepts are covered in lecture so doing all the readings isn't completely necessary. I was in the Spanish-speaking section which was OK but wasn't as effective to knowing what was in the readings. Overall great course, highly recommended.
It's a must-take before you leave Harvard.
Take Gov 20 first to see if you like it, as this is pretty much a more bloated, more advanced, less essential version of Gov 20.
Professor Levitsky has been my favorite professor at Harvard (I took gov 20 as well).  His lectures are incredibly interesting and delivered well, you are furiously typing notes throughout the whole thing. Although there are a lot of readings, you will gladly do them, and get great background on each of the readings either in lecture or in section or both.
This is an amazing class--take it if you're at all interested in Latin America!  Don't let the amount of reading scare you away; the class is very manageable and so, so interesting and well-taught.  Take it!
Be prepared to read.  Otherwise, the course is wonderful.  Lectures are breathtaking and section is engaging and interesting.
Lots of reading but manageable if you focus on the readings they tell you to
Levitsky gives great lectures, you will learn a lot, but come prepared to do a lot of reading.
This is a great class and THE class to take on Latin America. You get a very comprehensive background on the history and politics of Latin America from a variety or perspectives. Just a note: there is a TON of reading.
The expectations of this course were far too high to be reasonable. There were too many readings, assignments were too intense and demanding, and it was not reasonable that we could memorize or read so much. This class needs to reevaluate its expectations for Harvard students' sanity and especially be more understanding of non-government students' academic backgrounds. This course is really a gov class and not a GenEd class so if you don't have prior knowledge of gov theories and/or Latin American politics definitely think again and do NOT take this as a senior spring GenEd or elective! This class took away my excitement for learning about Latin American politics because it was so onerous and unrealistic and I'm not sure I would go through with it all again having the knowledge of the types of assignments and readings expected of us.
Although the reading can seem overwhelming, it is one aspect of the course. Overall, everything does come together and makes for a great learning experience.
This is such an amazing courseit's probably my favorite class at Harvard so far (and I'm a junior). I did not come in with any knowledge or even a particular interest in Latin America but decided to take it for the cue scores. It was the best decision of my semester. After a semester with Professor Levitsky, I left with a deep understanding of the political challenges in Latin America and a continued interest in this region. Professor L is so good at motivating the topic and keeping everyone interested for the 1.5 hour lectures. I always looked forward to being in CGIS to listen to him, and wish there were more classes like this at Harvard. The reading is a lot, but learn to read the intro+conclusion and you'll be more than set for the tests. You do have to dig into it for the papers, but it's really an enjoyable process to wrestle with the arguments. Take it!!!
Although it has a TON of reading, this is an excellent class! Right from the first class one can see Levitsky's enthusiasm and passion for the subject. I would recommend this class to anyone with an interest in Latin America.
Stay on top of the assignments or you will get overwhelmed
This is a WONDERFUL class. Not only do you learn a lot about the region, but Levitsky is engaging and passionate, funny, and a great lecturer! They really want you to learn about the region and enjoy the class, and even though it's a lot of work, it's interesting!
I would not take this class if you are not a government concentrator or have extensive knowledge about Latin America.  I felt like this course was information overload and overall, did not enjoy it
This is a fantastic course. Steven Levitsky does excellent lectures, with the energy of a sportscaster, and he is so available to students. I learned an unbelievable amount in this course when I look back, and it was my favorite class I've taken at Harvard so far.  Section is well run and will really help you prepare for the final exam.  It's also a great way to consolidate the massive amount of reading you will have in this class...
Levitsky gives the best lectures I've seen at Harvard and you learn a ton in this course.
It is a great class, but the workload can be stressful.
How interested are you in Latin America? If after going to a few lectures and looking ahead at the readings, arguments, debates, discussions, and topics to be covered, you're still interested, then take this course. Interest alone isn't enough, you need to be enthusiastic about the way the material is delivered and studied, otherwise it's just not worth it.
There are lots of readings but they are very digestible. You will develop good critical reading skills. Lectures are fascinating, dynamic, and often funny. Levitsky is a god among men, and if you had any common sense you wouldn't let a 3-volume coursepack get in your way of taking this course.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard so far. Amazing lectures, engaging (and intense) readings, fantastic professor, and just really fascinating topic.
As long as you come in prepared to do the reading, this is an amazing class.  The assignments are extremely reasonable and fairly graded, Professor Levitsky is an incredible lecturer, and the material is fascinating.  Take it!!!
There is a TON of reading, but Levitsky explains the major arguments well in lecture, making skimming the readings possible.
Awesome class. Levitsky cares about the material and cares about students. Lot of material, quite theoretical, but very accessible. The readings are great, but don't even consider reading all of them (I read way less than half of them).
I knew next to nothing about Latin American politics before I took this class; that region seems to be skipped in many grade school curricula. And now I feel like, because of the quality of the class and Professor Levitsky's excellent teaching style, I could hold an intelligent conversation with others about the politics any country in the region. It was truly a great course.
This class was very interesting and one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Though the reading load is very heavy, the class was definitely worth taking. Professor Levitsky is a great professor who is not only very knowledgeable about Latin America and engaging in lecture but is also very dedicated to his students. Overall, I would definitely recommend this class if you have an interest in Latin America.
Levitsky is an awesome lecturer
"Latin American Politics" is an exceptional class that I recommend with the highest enthusiasm! From colonialism and populism to Peronism and Dependency Theory, this course explores it all! The breadth and depth of Gov 1295 astounds me -- looking back, I still can't comprehend how much we covered in one semester. Professor Levitsky animates his lectures brilliantly; they are well-structured, flow well, and include countless stories, videos, and hilarious personal anecdotes! If you'e concentrating in Government (or even if not), this is definitely a class worth taking. Know, however, that the class IS fast-paced (take notes with a computer, because it's the only way to keep up!), and the reading is significant (although always interesting).
Everyone but I loves Professor Levitsky.  He's a good lecturer but a bit full of himself, y no quise escuchar tanto a su altaneria...
Don't let the strong amounts of reading turn you off. You SHOULD do the reading (because it enforces the class very well) but if you fall behind, you can still get a good grade. To be able to receive Levitsky's lectures is well well worth the work of this class.
Get a study group, otherwise I have no idea how you'll manage to do all the readings on your own. The class itself isn't that difficult, just make readings manageable for yourself.
This is a tremendous class.  I was intimidated by the amount of reading and initially didn't even shop it, but I am so glad I took it.  Lectures are a treat, and though readings are overwhelming the material is presented so well that it is not necessary to spend much time on them. Very manageable if you go to all the lectures- the papers are short and the final is easy to study for.  There is no reason not to take this class. TWO THUMBS WAY WAY UP, 4 STARS
This is a great class so long as you're interested in the subject matter. While the readings can be overwhelming, the essays and exam are fair assessments.
Levitsky is a great professor and lecturer. But this class was not what I was expecting. There is entirely too much reading, and while no you are not always expected to do all of it, it is still daunting and many times you will feel left out in lecture and section if you fail to do certain parts. This class is also very theory based, so be ready for that. There is also a ton of information to keep track of (the political history of six countries), so that can be very difficult and confusing. I would say take this class if you have a pretty easy semester and can dedicate lots of time to the readings and assignments.
this class is amazing! you learn so much each lecture, but it's not overwhelming.
Very interesting, but more of a history / social studies class. (Less theory, more historical lecturing).
Professor Levitsky is amazing. He makes the work and challenge of the course worth it. Though the material is challenging, the assignments are really valuable and fair. The lectures are fun because the course material is so interesting and well presented. I felt myself pushed but also supported.
This course will certainly challenge you, but it will be well worth it. This was one of the most intellectually engaging classes I've taken at Harvard thus far. Levitsky's lectures are consistently intriguing, and the section component is impressively enjoyable.
Despite the workload, this class has been one of my favorites at Harvard. I loved going to lecture and felt I learned a lot about an area of the world that I am really interested in. Professor Levitsky and his teaching fellow, Diane Kuhn are clearly very passionate about the subject and more importantly, about students and that is a rare, yet important encounter that makes this class one that I will remember forever!
It is a very difficult class, so it is great as long as you are interested in the subject matter and willing to work hard.
Gov 1295 is extremely well-taught, and Diane is an awesome section leader! I think it will continue to count for a SotW Gen Ed, so definitely consider it!
You'll learn everything.
Amazing class, a ton of work. Be ready to handle it.
TAKE IT! Professor Levitsky is a great, and this course on Latin America is phenomenal.
take this class! You dont need any background in gov or Latin American studies, just a willingness to put in your best effort. if you want to do a mediocre job in this class and not do the readings, dont bother. Its a waste of your time and the excellent section leaders' time. this class can be very interesting, if you take engage with the texts and dedicate time to lectures, section,etc. MAKE STUDY GUIDES FOR THE READINGS. with levitsky's terms lists, dont make notecards of all of them as you go along. i thought i was being responsible but it was really just a waste of time.  write down the concept type terms (not the random military generals, social reform programs, etc).  This will be helpful later when preparing for the exam.
You don't really have to do all the readings, as long as you skim and do the ones pertinent to your paper. Being in lecture is SUPER CRITICAL, since it does a really good job of summing up material and tying things together.
I loved the professor and the lectures!! However, I would urge anyone who has not taken any government course before to take this one pass/fail. Despite spending days writing and editing the two papers, I have done *really* terribly on them. My tf didn't care that I have never written a gov paper before and she graded them extremely harshly. As a graduating senior, the grades I've received in this course were the lowest during my four years at harvard. Please plase take this course pass/fail!!
This course helps build many useful skills but requires a substantial input of time due to the reading load.
This is a must-take for anyone interested in studying Latin America (contemporary or historical). It is fascinating material and reading, and the TF's and Prof. Levitsky are extremely dedicated and a pleasure to have teaching.
Levitsky is GREAT. His lectures will leave you on the edge of your seat (also you will have to type furiously to keep up). Learned an incredible amount of information, and had a great TF as well. Definitely take this if you are interested in any aspect of latin american history.
This class' reading load is truly immense, but Levitsky is a wonderful professor. The latter doesn't always make up for the former, and certainly does not with respect to grades; but it's a good challenge if you're interested in political science.
This course is hard but only because you are learning a ton of information and it moves very quickly, but it is so interesting and very important history to know to understand Latin America's role in the world.
This is an amazing class and Levitsky is simply one of the best professors out there - not just at Harvard. He really cares about his students and always makes room in lecture for questions. The material is a lot and can occasionally be dense, but you'll get through it. Take it!
manage your time, and know how to speed read!
The amount of reading is out of this world.  You can get away with missing one here and there, just be sure to read the big ones and the ones that actually offer clear arguments rather than the more descriptive ones.  There are also movies, but they tend to be very very good.  Honestly, this class was worth every bit of work that I put into it.  I'm sure others will tell you the same.  I'm actually upset by the fact that it's likely I will not find a class as good as this in the gov. department.  Prof. Levitsky is a boss.  He's practically my hero.  His anecdotes made my days.  His lectures are as on point and informative as a lecture can be (and they're video taped, which helps!), he is super nice, and certainly approachable.  I wish I had tried to interact a bit more, actually.  Overall, TAKE THIS CLASS, and put some effort into if so you can get out of it as much as you can.
Great class if you can keep up. The course readings are extensive and you will not get to them so you have to do your best to keep yourself up to date.
a really great course with a very engaging and committed professors. i learned a TON and the course was well-organized. although there were a lot of readings, it wasn't unmanageable if you know how to skim and how to prioritize, and i felt the grading was relatively fair and there weren't any unexpected surprises. actually ended up being one of my favorite courses this semester
Excellent course.
This course is the best example of a rewarding challenge that I have experienced at Harvard thus far.  Yes, there are a lot of readings.  Yes, questions posed will require a substantial degree of analysis and reflection.  And yes, it is all wort it.  The enthusiasm of the professor and his staff are fantastic and while they demand your effort and attention, they also do their best to reciprocate.  While I have had other courses where I felt the effort I expended was not matched by the quality of education I received, the opposite could not be more true in the case of Gov. 1295.  Furthermore, section leaders are very happy to guide students through readings so that everyone is duly prepared to perform on assignments.  So while you will be expected to be engaged and expend effort, grading and assignments are very fair.  In short, this course was challenging but not overwhelming and fantastically rewarding.  If you are interested in either Latin America, comparative politics, Professor Levitsky or the developing world take this course!!  You will regret not doing so.
I'd keep a list of major names and themes from each country, because it's easy to mix them up. I recommend.
I strongly recommend the course as Professor Levitsky provides an excellent political analysis of Latin America that spans the last five centuries.
This is a fantastic class for those interested in Latin America. It is a challenging one as well, but Professor Levitsky and your TFs will always go out of their way to provide you with the guidance and support to make this a memorable learning experience.
Gov 1295 does have a a lot of readings each week, but they are all pertinent, applicable, and insightful. The weeks I did not get to finish all the readings before section, I made it a point to go back to them, as they were interesting as well. Professor Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer, and a professor who truly makes himself available for questions and discussion. It was certainly my favourite course this semester.
This course is a great course. Without a doubt, the teaching is top notch: as good as you will find anywhere at harvard, and the students are generally really knowledgable and interesting in the subject. HOWEVER, as a literature concentrator with no background in political science, I would stress that this course can be exceedingly difficult for those without such a background, and even for those who do, the amount of information and reading that you are required to absorb is quite substantial. If you are taking this class, make sure that you tailor the rest of your schedule to match.
Be sure to start a reading study group early. It is easy to fall behind in reading which is an impediment to the class and formulating your own ideas.
It's a very intense course with the highest reading load possible. The sheer amount of information makes it pretty difficult, especially when studying for the final. That said, it's worth it if you have any interest in Latin America as a region. Professor Levitsky is also one of the best professors in the government department. So it may be daunting, but you should still take it.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Even if you have the tiniest interest in Latin America, this class will change your life. You will learn more in one lecture of this class than in a whole month of any other class. Professor Levitsky is the best prof I've had at Harvard. He's incredibly accessible (has weekly lunches with students and great office hours) and is a great speaker. There is a LOT of reading, but the teaching staff does a good job guiding you through which ones are most important.
too much reading, lectures are long but interesting
Incredible class. No background needed.
This is a great course and Prof. Levitsky's lectures are great. The readings are too much (three thick coursepacks) but it's not necessary to do all of them (or at all, if you have a good background in gov).
It's a ton of reading, but if you're at all interested in Latin America or politics, you should totally take it!
Do most of the readings and you'll be fine. Don't expect this class to be the last word on Latin American politics, but it's definitely a good start.
It's worth doing the readings, they are good complement to the lectures
This is an excellent class. Levitsky's enthusiasm and passion is infectious, and the material is braod and at the same time in depth. most Harvard courses suffer from a trade off: the more in depth the class, the more narrow the focus, and the more braod, the less in depth. Gov 1295 is both broad and in depth, largely due to the insane amount of reading. it is well worth it though!
One of the best courses at Harvard, and I mean it. There's so much to get out of it, and professor Levitsky is truly one of a kind. Make sure you're really proactive about this course, not really because you ever have to, but because it's sure to be a life changing experience if you do. Reach out to Levitsky, he's really interested in getting involved with students and seems to love talking to people, no matter how little you know. Take this course at some point, you will not regret it. Again, one of the best there is.
The readings may be a bit intimidating for the course is definitely worth your while. If you only ever intend to take one course on Latin America this is definitely it.
Very interesting class, if you have time for the readings you will have a wonderful time in class.
Every gov concentrator should take a class with Levitsky before they graduate, he is the most engaging professor in the whole department.
This class is chock-full of information. I never had to worry about zoning out during lecture and browsing the internet (or at least, hardly ever had to worry), because there was just so much information being thrown out for the entire hour and a half that I was typing non-stop. The timing of the class was bad for me (2-3:30 MW), because I tend to be really tired during that time, but lectures are taped if you really must take a nap instead. Great class!
You have to go to lecture
This is a great class for anyone interested in either government or Latin America in general (or for anyone pursuing a Secondary in Spanish- the course satisfies the Secondary's course in a related field option). There are a lot of readings, but not all of them are essential, and I would highly suggest finding a group within which to split up the readings. Lectures are really interesting and engaging, and the teaching staff is kind, helpful, very interesting, and grades fairly. I would highly recommend!
Go to EVERY single lecture!
This is a very interesting course related to Latin American politics. The lectures are engaging and well-structured. Section is well organized. Some of the reading are a bit long and may not be helpful for the graded work, but the overall work is manageable with some effort.
This is a phenomenal class and the subject matter is incredibly interesting. The reading can definitely be overwhelming and it's very very easy to quickly fall behind. If you are going to take this class don't take it during a hard semester, unless you have very good time management.
I loved this course. As my first gov course, I found it quite difficult for a good portion of the semester, but I have learned so much and now feel genuinely invested in Latin American countries and their future. Definitely form a study/reading group so that you are not overwhelmed by the massive quantity readings.
Do the readings!
Though gov may have a reputation for being an "easy" field, be ready to engage deeply with the readings, put authors with dialogue with one another, and learn a lot. Thinking about the discussion questions and taking brief notes on them before section will position you to perform well and begin synthesizing the material in preparation for papers and the final exam. Levitsky is engaging and a leader in the field, so being in the classroom with him is a privilege.
This course is Gov 20 applied to Latin America. If you took Gov 20, you will do well. If you did not do Gov 20, you will learn comparative politics and a lot about Latin America (albeit with a little more work involved). Prof. Levitsky is a great lecturer and clearly passionate about the topic. I am also personally interested in the topic, but I think this is a great course for anyone who wants to see politics and political theory in action.
Form a reading group from week 1 and stick with it.
This is an amazing class, mostly if you're interested in Latin America since this is the region of the world that Levitsky specializes in. Prof Levitsky gives amazing lectures. You will never be bored in class! Also, don't be put off by the amount of reading. You can do really well in the class without thoroughly reading it all.
Gov 1295 is one of the best lecture courses in the social sciences at Harvard. Professor Levitsky is a terrific lecturer, the material is well organized, and you will find the themes relevant even if you don't have a specific interest in Latin America. Beware that the grading is kind of tough, and the readings are nothing to scoff about. Nevertheless, I would highly recommend taking this class!
Be prepared to spend money on a coursepack that is not completely worth purchasing. Definitely find a good reading/study group to split readings amongst because it is impossible to try and do all of them on your own, and still have a life.
this class is an engaging deep dive into Latin American poltiics - very interesting, but a lot of work. It's Levitsky at his best.
Be prepared to understand a lot (and somewhat superficially) about various case studies in Latin America, without going explicitly into depth into a specific concept or country context
Great opportunity to learn about Latin America's history and politics from a world-class professor
This course is a really fantastic overview of Latin American politics, and if you are interested in the region, you should definitely take this class. Just be prepared for a lot of information and a lot of readings.
Levitsky is an awesome lecturer and you will walk out of this class feeling a lot more educated than before. Try to do some of the readings, they are really interesting! (Don't do all though - that would be close to impossible if you do anything else besides that class...)
Take this class to learn the basics about Latin American political history. You will also learn a lot about the countries chosen as cases. Not heavy on discussion or interaction, but very heavy on reading.
This is another great course from Professor Levitsky. Be prepared for a ton of reading.
This is a good course worth taking. The lectures are good, especially if you can keep up with the material (which admittedly I couldn't always do). It's worth trying to get a section leader from the region, or who specialises in the region, as it would probably make for a better experience in section. The term papers and section response papers can sometimes feel a bit shallow or formulaic (ie: you are trying to check off boxes and second-guess the grader rather than write what you really think is interesting) but the rest of the course makes that worthwhile.
Take this class!!!! You will fall in love with Latin America and Levitsky.
People always say that whatever you learn in school you can learn by yourself. This is one of the classes where it does not apply. I took this class because of Professor Levitisky and his captivating style of lecturing, which grabs 100% of your attention and makes you want to learn. No way to replace that experience without taking his class.
This class isn't Gov 20 2.0. Levitsky's lectures are just as engaging, but 1295 is much more historical and case based. If you enjoyed the case studies in Gov 20, this will be a good fit, but if you found yourself zoning out during the Iraq unit, then this class bares more resemblance to that. Unfortunately, there also appears to have been less focus on hiring high quality teaching fellows in this course, although hopefully that was a one-year exception.
I learned more than I ever thought I could about something in a semester. The content was fascinating and valuable to know because a lot of it involves our country and our neighbors.
Professor Levitsky is perhaps one of the best lecturers and professors at Harvard. He is not snobby and always makes himself available. Very friendly guy, makes time for lunch with the students and will help guide you in thesis or other work interests.
This is a really fantastic course. i only wish that I devoted more time to complete the readings each week. Try not to fall behind on the readings and you'll get the very best experience out of it.
Don't hesitate, take it.
Levitsky is a great lecturer and I learned a lot in the course. I would definitely recommend the course to anyone interested in Latin America. However, the TF that I had was not great and TFs determine grades. Some of the essay grading seemed a little arbitrary and the comments on them were not very productive.
Yes, this class has a lot of readings, just like Gov 20, maybe even more. But the good news is that you don't really have to do all of them or read it word for word. Go to lecture, pay attention, and talk in section and you'll be fine. Very detailed course on the history of Latin America politics (but its still a more poli sci based class).
Very interesting and engaging class. Professor Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and every Harvard undergraduate should have him at least once in their four years. The readings are a lot; there is no way to get around it and you have to keep up with the readings to do good, but it is well worth it.
If you liked gov 20, you'll love gov1295--the class is essentially the same in structure, but with more in-depth case analysis (instead of scattered cases, we focus on 6 countries the whole course) and Professor Levtisky is even more enthusiastic.  As with all of his classes, I feel like I walked away so much more knowledgable.  Jinkai is also a fabulous tfSide note: Levtisky's office hours do fill up, but they're so enriching and fun.  definitely go
Definitely take this course. Professor Levitsky is extremely accessible through weekly lunches and office hours, and even for someone not interested in Latin America, this course provides some really valuable insight on how democracy and government function in developing countries.
Even though the section component of the course could be strengthened, the course is nevertheless wonderful because if Levitsky's lectures. They are engaging an thought-provoking.
Engaging lectures but overall satisfaction will depend on section leader!
GOV 1295 is a great class that will change the way you look at Latin American politics. Tracing the history of six countries from the start of the 20th century to today, you will end up with a much deeper, clearer understanding of the political history of the region and with an appreciation of how political games are shaped by cultural traditions, economic history, local party systems and many other factors. There is A LOT of reading but you will also end up with a great view of the relevant literature from many, varied sources with often contrasting viewpoints. Overall, if you have a real interest in the region, take this course!
Lectures were great and readings, though long and numerous, were worthwhile and complementary to the lectures. Additionally, I was in the Spanish section (native Spanish speaker). At first I felt as though we were just translating the material in section but once people got more comfortable with the fact that we were speaking spanish it was good to have real discussions and practice Spanish in an academic setting.
Be prepared for the work!
A lot of work (reading), but engaging and highly informative
This course is an amazing opportunity for anyone who wants to study more about Latin America. However, I am hesitant to recommend this course if a student had not already taken a government class before.
-
Do not take this as a gen ed if you have no knowledge in gov. The TFs were incredibly harsh and gave no guidelines on assignments. You'd be much better off taking a SW gen ed, but you will learn a lot about latin america.
It opens your mind and it makes you really think about cause and effect in Latin America.
Get ready for a lot of reading. The essays and exams are not difficult if you put time and effort into preparing for them, and in the end, you emerge with a much stronger understanding of Latin American politics. If you're interested in comparative politics or the region as a whole, it is definitely worth it.
Be prepared for a great deal of reading, but keep in mind that Professor Levitsky does an incredible job of condensing and consolidating key concepts in lecture, making the course and its assignments well worth it.
it is a very interesting class
The lectures are great, the readings are plentiful but interesting, but it is way too hard for this type of class.
There is an extreme range of students in this course: many who live in Latin America and many who know nothing about it, many students who are expereinced Government students and many who have never taken a Government course. This diversity makes section very difficult and the lectures try to fit all of these groups at once, which is also hard. You learn a lot in this course and Levitsky's lectures are always fascinating and engaging and this course is wonderful if you have an interest in Latin America or comparative politics.  Everyone in this course spends some time bored with review and other days struggling to keep up, but that is the nature of a large specialized course.
An amazing P/F course because it its really interesting, has 2 papers and 1 exam, and would be difficult as a graded course. As an upper-level Gov course, it makes a lot of sense to take P/F as an elective for non-Gov/SocialStudies concentrators. You learn a lot about Latin America, its history, and politics/government in general.
It is a great course that will give you a deeper perspective of the political phenomena that tool place in the LatAm region mostly in the late 20th century. You will be able to compare cases of countries and understand why the political landscape of the countries is the way it is now.
Amazing course, You learn so much. It has a ton of reading and can be very difficult but totally worth it. Levitsky is an awesome lecturer
It is an amazing course, Levitsky is an incredible and very talented professor, but be ready for the readingload.
This class does a great job at informing you about the history of six Latin American countries and their development from the colonial period to the present. I suggest doing as much of the readings as possible and GO TO LECTURE! It will make writing the papers so much easier.
Just take it! I took this class senior spring just to learn more about the area and I was amazed yet again by levitsky. If you loved gov20 you would love hhis even more. The stuff you learn in one of his lecture sometimes compares to knowledge gained over 3 weeks in some other classes. Don't led the course pack scare you - this class is what Harvard is about!
Challenging and a lot of work, but definitely worthwhile for those interested in Latin America.  Levitsky is also just a wonderfully dynamic lecturer.  I feel that I learned a lot.
Professor Levitsky is an extremely good and clear lecturer and his lectures are videotaped, which is helpful. Sections can be slightly less productive, and there is quite a bit of reading. However, overall, the course is well-managed and there is no obligation to feel overloaded by all the work, as you can manage/filter what you need to read to effectively do the essays and contribute to discussions.
Be prepared for lots of readings. The lectures really make the class.
Amazing class! Take it even if it's your senior spring. One of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard
I felt like this was one of the few classes where you walk away feeling that your knowledge base has tangibly improved because of the teaching.
This is a very difficult course with some structural issues, but it will teach you a lot if you are able to put the time into it.  It may be a good course to take if you are only taking three courses in a semester or if you have a light load.
Take it! It's an amazing class, worth all of the effort!
This course is helpful for anyone interested in learning how comparative politics theories apply to Latin America, specifically for the case countries of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Mexico and Venezuela. Major themes covered in the course are colonial beginnings, BA regimes, transitions to democracy, the pink tide, the changing social movement landscape, the rise of indigenous movements, the changing nature of populism in the 20th and 21st centuries, institutional strength, among others. The course has a hefty amount of reading, but readings complement the lectures very well and there is a good balance of theoretical and case readings. Most students thoroughly enjoy Levitsky's lectures as he is very energetic during lectures. His lectures are very organized and tie in the weekly readings and cases very well. Anyone interested in Latin American politics should definitely take this course!
Amazing lectures, really cool material. There is a ridiculous amount of reading so it is helpful to get in a study group or at least keep up on the general points of each reading for every week. Very difficult to catch up if you fall behind especially since there is so much new material each week. Professor Levitsky is ridiculous. So much passion for the material which really shows in his lectures and I think the students' attitudes towards the class in general
Professor Levitsky is the best lecturer at Harvard--no doubt about it. This class was so great not only because Latin American politics are extremely interesting, but Professor Levitsky's passionate lectures were not to be missed.I came in knowing very little about Latin American history and politics, and came out feeling like I knew the region very well. I hope to continue learning about the region. Also, the reading load is extreme, but it is not necessary to do all of it--I wouldn't let that turn you away from the course, if you have some time to dedicate to it.
Take this course. If you liked Gov 20, you'll love Gov 1295! Levitsky is amazing as always, the lectures are fascinating (and more connected than in Gov 20), and you'll learn a ton. It's a lot of reading, so be prepared for that, and focus on the main ideas and arguments--the danger is that you'll get a bit bogged down with the readings, but there are definitely ways to avoid that.
As a Latin American, this course meant a lot to me. I learned about my own region and my own country. I learned how to analyze the things that happened in the news. I learned about myself.
The best class I took during my experience at Harvard.
This course focuses on such a hot topic and is taught by an awesome, engaging professor!
There is a ton of reading for this course that is almost impossible to actually complete. However, not doing the readings can make writing the responses difficult. The lectures are really interesting but there is an insane amount of material.
This is a wonderful course. Despite not being a government concentrator nor having specific scholarly interest in Latin America, I felt that I learned SO much about the region, economics, and political systems and will be able to read news about Latin America with a much more keen eye. Professor Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and I also learned so much from the way he structures and delivers his lectures, which are incredibly logical and coherent. Finally, I think the comparative mindset employed in this class is actually relevant in a lot of different academic spheres.
This is an excellent course. Professor Levitsky is a rockstar and the material is phenomenal. However, I do recommend you take this class when you have a lighter semester. The amount of reading each week is no joke. And although your TF will help you narrow your reading a bit each week, it is still a lot.
SO MUCH READING. But this course is super worth it. Take it.
The amount of reading can be daunting but it is completely manageable. Absolutely take this course if you have any interest and care about Latin America.
Make sure to make time for the readings (there are a lot) and if you are not a fast reader, try and organize a study group from the very beginning to divide the readings up. Also, both Levitsky and your TF's are very accessible, so don't be afraid to meet up with them. They are very helpful.
Do not take the Spanish section, but Levitsky's a good lecturer
Too much work, unrealistic with a heavy extracurricular schedule
Levitsky is a great lecturer, although his rhetorical style gets monotonous. SO MANY LISTS.
This courses involves reading. Not a lot of reading, TOO MUCH reading. I simply didn't do it, but be prepared.
Take this course if you are interested in Latin America, but have never truly explored its political history
It can definitely be overwhelming but this course will give you so much knowledge and understanding not only of Latin America, but also of major theories of development. It is a lot of reading though I was easily able to skim most of it and get by just on lectures. The paper and final are straightforward and doable.
Professor Levitsky is awesome! This was the first gov class I took at Harvard (I took it sophomore spring), and I absolutely loved it! I'm a social studies concentrator, and considering focusing on Latin America, and this class introduced me to everything I need to know to go forward. It's fun to take this class with someone you know in order to split up readings and just talk about the material. There's a lot of readings, but it's manageable, especially if you split them or read the important ones and skim the others. This class is essentially the political history of Latin America in the 19th and 20th centuries.
This is a fantastic class. I would recommend it quickly. But do not take this class if you do not want to do any readings. There are a large number of readings so be prepared to but in a little work. If you do the rewards will be massive. This was my best class last semester.
This class is incredibly difficult - a ton of reading - but the TFs will help you to pick out which readings you will do, and everyone, Levitsky himself included, is empathetic to the hectic student life. The course is extremely fair, and if you put in the time to write solid papers and to study for the final exam, you WILL do well. You will also learn a ton about Latin American politics, and you will feel good about yourself for having learned as much as you did.
If you are interested in Latin America, you should definitely take this course, with this professor.
Gov 1295 is a great course! As a freshman taking the class, the amount of reading might seem daunting, but it is actually quite doable. Levitsky is a great lecturer as well and it is clear that he loves teaching this subject in particular, so take the class if you have a chance!
The class is fine. People recommend it but it's decent.
A great, concise general introduction to contemporary Latin American politics!
Pretty good class, requires some work but overall it is a good course.
I would tell them tot fall behind because it is difficult to catch-up given the amount of readings assigned. Going to lecture is very helpful and defining key terms as the semester progress is helpful for the final so that you already have a study guide to use. This is a great course and people interested in learning about Latin America should definitely take it.
You can get out of the class whatever you put in. If you're just looking to get a general understanding of the major historical trends and politics of Latin America, the lectures are extremely helpful. If you're looking to go into more detail, there are a lot of well-selected readings with a treasure trove of interesting information.
Levitsky is amazing. Engaging lectures, fun lunches and very accessible outside class; however, the papers were graded harshly and the exam covered too much material with no guidelines, therefore previous knowledge of latin America would give students an advantage in the course. The TFs were impossible to contact also, which is disheartening for engaged students.
Levitsky is really great.
It's a lot of work and the grading isn't the easiest, but you will learn a LOT about Latin America and Levitsky is a really engaging professor
- If you are interested in Latin America, this is must!
It's a lot of reading, but it's super interesting.
Course is extremely dense and fast-paced. Tuning out for even one second in lecture will leave you completely lost. Talk to TF's about papers.
Take this class! Professor Levitsky is one of the most incredible, if not the most incredible, lecturers I have ever listened to or seen. He packs so much information into each lecture and is always engaging. The material is also both important and interesting. A lot of reading.
This is a great course, but only if you know you like government. The lectures are usually very engaging (they can feel really long) and the TFs are great. If you already have a background in Latin America, you can probably get by without doing much of the reading, but if this is your first government course or first course on Latin America, it would definitely be a good idea to do as much of the reading as possible. Professor Levitsky is great and he can be really hilarious at times.
Take this class! Professor Levitsky is amazing.
Don't be afraid to take this class if you didn't take Gov 20 or don't have experience with Latin America.  Levistky breaks things down to the basics, and section is incredibly helpful.  Levitsky is an amazing lecturer, and the material is incredibly dynamic and engaging.  Lots of reading, but not all of it is completely necessary (especially if you have a good TF). Highly highly recommend this class.
The material covered in class is incredibly fascinating and Professor Levitsky is a very engaging lecturer.
This is an excellent introductory course to the history and politics of Latam, which is not only relevant to people with Latin American origins but also to anyone interested in emerging and growing regions of the world.
This is a fantastic class! Levitsky is great and the subject matter is so interesting. If you are at all interested in Latin America I would highly recommend taking this class!
If you're OK with doing a lot of work/reading/committing, this class is incredible for anyone who wants a more in depth/political view at Latin America. You learn a ton and as usual, Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer.
this is a gem of a gov class SO dynamic and interesting. Gov concentrator or not, everyone can learn something and levitsky is incredible
If you are interested in Latin America, it is a must! Prof. Levitzky is amazing!
Take it!! Levitsky lives up to the hype. I am not a gov concentrator and I have zero ties to latin america, but I missed out on Gov 20 and had heard such good things about him/was interested in learning about a region I knew nothing about. The TFs helped make it totally accessible and it really is manageable if you stay on top of it (though definitely not a walk in the park).
Gov 1295 was one of the best decisions I made as a Gov concentrator, and was definitely one of the most enjoyable classes I've taken here. That being said, I took Gov 20 as well - I will say that this course is easier if you've taken that course, since the structure is remarkably similar. While readings are long, you will learn immediately to just skim most of the readings and to focus on one or two key pieces each week.
Levitsky is great, and there's a lot of reading, but you don't need to do it all if you pay attention in lecture and section.
Stay on top of the concepts
If you are at all interested in Latin America, TAKE THIS COURSE. It will provide you with an incredibly in-depth overview of Latin American history, given the time constraints of the semester. You will learn so much, but be prepared to read a lot, and engage in political conversations along the way. This was my first gov class, and it was not too overwhelming, but it was difficult.
This course is a great overview of politics in Latin America. Prof Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and is really knowledgable about the area.
Awesome class. Readings seem overwhelming but very doable if you know how to read for main arguments and skim unnecessary stuff. Levitsky is an absolute honor and lectures are very engaging even though the hour and a half is inherently tough. You can go in with no background in latin american affairs and get a ton out of it. papers/exams are very reasonable and he screens several movies which are fun. overall great class
Get ready to do a lot of reading. If you're at all interested in Latin America, that's a good thing. If you are not, stay away.
Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and professor. This class, though may have an abundant amount of readings, is definitely something worthwhile to take just to hear Levitsky talk.
Final catches you by surprise.
That is extremely interesting to refresh and learn about latin american history and its challenges.
I would tell future students that this class is excellent if you want a summary of the history of Latin America for the past 100 years. The lectures are incredibly engaging and easy to follow--Levitsky is one of the best lecturers at Harvard college and is also very passionate about the material. It will give you both a broad understanding of the events of the last 200 years and the underlying theories behind them. At the same time, I would go into the class with the knowledge that the readings are excessively long: do not expect to complete all of them or else you could easily spend 12+ hours a week simply doing dense, difficult readings. Be prepared to tackle them efficiently while not sacrificing the main argument. Some background in gov/CP may be helpful. Also, the class overwhelmingly focuses on Argentina, Peru, Brazil, Chile and Mexico to the exclusion of other Latin American countries which may also be of note to some people. The assignments are very manageable--only 2 papers and a final so make sure you aren't falling behind on your work and leaving it all to the final because it will be a lot!
This is a great comparative politics class, and the lectures and materials are well organized and effective. Some weeks the readings are long, but if they are unmanageable the lecture information can make up for it greatly.
If you want a good teacher, an informative class, and just a good experience with Latin America's history... take this class!
The reading list is extremely dense; make sure you read the syllabus carefully before you decide to take the class. The paper prompts were fair, but since two papers make up 50% of your grade, the best way to make sure to do well is by doing the readings.
Just so interesting and well taught. Definitely recommend, a ton of reading but I slacked as a thesising senior and still did fine.
Levitsky's reputation is well deserved. His lectures are engaging, informative and interesting. This class covers a LOT of content: you'll be learning 100+ years of history for multiple countries. However, Levitsky does a great job laying out the major themes in a way that makes it manageable. Do not get overwhelmed in the details or worry about doing all the reading, just focus on the big picture. Even if you're not interested in Latin America, the understanding you'll get of democracy, development and why states succeed or fail is incredibly important and relevant outside of the region. In the wake of Trump, the lessons learned about populism in this class are particularly poignant. Highly recommend.
The course material and the specificity that each case is dealt with are fantastic. Yes, there are a lot of readings, but there is absolutely no need to thoroughly read them. As long as you understand why each reading was assigned and how you can apply it to each week, you will learn a lot and enjoy this course as much as I did!
This is a very interesting course but you need to do the readings to get the most out of it.
This class is a lot of work. Form study groups to split up the readings and take notes on the lectures, since those cover a lot of the readings. The lectures are recorded so it's easy to fall behind so just try to stay on top of it. Get to know your TFs and try to stay on top of planning for the essays (why the readings are so important to have the general arguments of).
Just Amazing. Best class I've taken at Harvard thus far.
TAKE THIS COURSE.Ok, fine. I may be biased because I come from a Latin American country and I came thinking this topic looked interesting, but if you're reading this then you probably are already considering it, so I'll suggest you should just go for it. Levitsky is an amazing lecturer who is an expert on the field and is also very good at lecturing about it. You're guaranteed to never get bored during lecture. The structure of the course does a great job in first introducing you to LatAm, then walking through time and through different aspects of LatAm from a comparative perspective, finally capping it off by looking at where countries are today and what awaits for them in the future. At the end of the course, it just makes sense.Yeah, you should take it.
This was my favorite class of the semester! Professor Levitsky is amazing and extremely enthusiastic about the course, and the material is interesting every week. If you have any interest in Latin America, take this course. There is a lot of reading, but it is manageable and the TFs can help you.
This course is amazing. It is one of the best, if not the best, courses at Harvard. However, make sure to do all the readings, which are a lot- your future self will thank you.
Levitsky covers SO MUCH material in each lecture. You will learn a ton and it will be fun.
Levitsky is an amazing lecturer, and the course was very informative and interesting!
My own experience with Gov 1295 was intricately tied to my taking it in the same semester my thesis was due. Indeed, I took this class the semester in which my thesis was due for three reasons: 1) Recorded lectures meant that I could miss class in the run-up to my thesis and still learn all of the material when my thesis was complete. 2) A guaranteed extension for senior thesis writers on the first paper meant that I could focus on my thesis and trust that I would not be penalized for doing so. 3) Levitsky's lectures are incredible, and listening to them never feels like work. This class was everything I needed it to be in my last semester, and I recommend it with enthusiasm to any senior who is looking for a similar package in a course to take concurrently with the thesis writing process.
You'll learn a lot, mainly about 6 Latin American countries. Sometimes it might seem like you're learning too much because Levitsky packs a lot into his lectures. But he organizes them well, and assigns readings that go along with them. There is a lot of reading, and eventually you won't be able to keep up. The course is very similar to Gov 20 in that regard. Overall I'd recommend the course, especially to someone like me who didn't know anything about Latin America.
(1) If you are interested in Latin American politics, you should 100% take this course. (2) Lots of readings, but you don't actually you need to do them to do well or still get a ton of the class.
Great class! Not one you can slack off on, but definitely one that teaches you a lot an you feel so knowledgeable about such a vibrant and important region. 10/10 would recommend taking it with Levitsky if possible.
This is an awesome class. If you'd like a good introduction to political science and, specifically, to the politics of Latin America, take this course! The professor is an excellent lecturer.
Very enjoyable class. I have learned so much from Professor Levitsky. If you want a good grade you better be able to write effectively. Also, there is a considerable amount of reading so just prepare yourself. I'd recommend.
Great class taught by a great professor. Course material is very interesting even if you're not specifically interested by Latin America. That being said, it is a lot of readings.
Great pass/fail pick, lots of readings but really interesting lectures.
