This course REALLY teaches you ArcGIS. If that's a skill that you want, and it probably should be because it's so cool what you can do with it, you should take this class.
Totally manageable workload in the form of weekly labs makes for steady absorption of the material. Sumeeta is the ideal instructor. Knowledgeable, accessible, down-to-earth.
this course is one of the best i've taken! it's extremely useful, well-organized, interesting, and applicable to so many disciplines outside of the gov department. you leave the course with an amazing depth of knowledge about mapping techniques and GIS software. professor srinivasan is also incredibly brilliant and kind - she makes the labs, which do take a bit of time (4-6 hours), very manageable and enjoyable. the midterm and final project were also structured very reasonably, and even felt rewarding since they were focused on a topic of your choosing!
Super cool class. Some of the most technical stuff went over my head but it was really interesting to learn how to use ArcGIS for practical purposes or future thesis writing purposes. And Sumeeta is awesome.
If you have any interest in learning GIS, this class is entirely worth it. Sumeeta is extremely helpful and it is just a great environment in which to learn the software as well as learning to apply it to social/political issues.
This course isn't very inherently interesting. Learning how to use ArcMap is a super important skill for gov or social science concentrators. Lectures were pretty boring, though, and often didn't help at all with the labs. I pretty much had to teach myself how to use the software, and I'm happy I did. Don't buy the book. Sumeeta is super chill though, and a fun person to learn from.
Great introduction to GIS. It's not a typical gov course- it's really more about learning the skill than learning about a particular topic
This is one of those "hidden gem" classes at Harvard! Certainly one of my favorite seminars, Gov 94dn is a fabulous course taught by an extremely knowledgeable and dedicated faculty member; I highly recommend it!! You learn theory of cartography and various tools for spatial analysis. Then, you carry out your newfound skills in weekly labs, using a software called ArcGIS. By the end, you're an expert in making your own maps and you walk away with a very tangible skill that you can apply in other academic fields, your thesis, or your career. Sumeeta, the instructor, is remarkably helpful and emphasizes learning over grades, even offering the option to resubmit any labs with corrections for full credit. She explains concepts in a very accessible way, stimulates good conversation, generates enthusiasm for the subject, and is extremely approachable/kind. Take this class! You will really enjoy it!
This a phenomenal class that teaches methods that can really be applied to research questions in any discipline. If you are considering taking it, definitely take it.
Working with Sumeeta is a joy. She is gifted with GIS and, just as importantly, kind, flexible, patient, and thoughtful when working with students. I took this class as an elective, and I was one of the few students who did that; most students took the class in conjunction with a thesis or some other sort of research. If you are going to take as an elective, be warned that there is a good deal of in depth work. It is not an easy out of concentration class. But if you are willing to deal with the difficulties of learning the program, there is a generous payoff.
Take the time to learn the techniques and recognize the incredible privilege to work with a map wizard of Professor Srinivasan's level. Get your data early and don't allow labs to pile up, even if the structure of the course may permit a little bit of leeway.
Learning GIS is the most productive thing you can do with your time. This is especially true for people interested in quantitative methods. The ability to visualize data is invaluable.
GIS is an incredible tool useful in so many fields! If you are at all interested, this course will more than equip you to start including maps in your publications, or your thesis!
This class is great for anyone interested in learning how to use GIS. Instruction was very clear and effective and I feel equipped to perform spatial analysis on data. It does take time to complete labs (which are assigned more or less on a weekly basis after the first few weeks of class), but the skills gained in completing them are useful. The opportunity to work on a final project of our choosing was also great as we were able to explore topics that truly interested us.
This is a great class.  The lab exercises are lengthy, but extremely beneficial.  If you are willing to put the time in, you will get a ton out of this class.  Sumeeta is an excellent instructor!
This was a pretty chill class that gave me some useful skills -- especially for thinking about spatial relationships as they relate to social science, and how maps can really complement some studies for what they show instead of tell. For example, I'm interested in immigration, and the movement of people/changing demographics in a particular area is something not often mapped in the social sciences as I've experienced them but was really interesting to try.If you're thinking about using maps as part of a thesis, or are interested in learning GIS skills (which are super cool!) then I'd consider taking the course, and at least shopping it. There's not very much effort that you need to put in other than just doing the weekly labs, and Sumeeta is great. But as a random elective that doesn't relate to your plan of study in any tangible way that you can see -- I might take something else.
This course required a lot of time, yet was very rewarding.
For more GIS, the other course (taught by the same professor) might be a better choice. It is supposed to be a tad more rigorous.  Sumeeta makes herself very available to her students, but the material, as an introductory course to a software package, can be fairly dry at times.  The discussions were interesting though.
