A great course if you are not an Africanist. Besides being interesting in it's own right, you'll find theories that travel!
This course is very challenging, and is perhaps the hardest course I took during my undergraduate career, in terms of both work volume and difficulty. But the opportunity to read this material in a supervised setting is one you can't get anywhere else, and I highly recommend it. If you were considering a PhD in political science and/or any field with a specialty in Africa, this course would be a terrific chance to see if the choice is right for you. But undergrads who want to take it should take it during a semester that this course could be the main focus of their time.
The course was interesting, but very tough. Nahomi has great insights and is an effective discussion moderator, but also has extremely high standards and expectations that often felt impossible to satisfy. I appreciate that she gave honest feedback, but it was sometimes a bit discouraging. She also seems to have very strong opinions about what is interesting to study in the field and what is not.
As an undergrad, this has been one of the most difficult course I have taken at Harvard. Nonetheless, it has been the most rewarding and insightful into political science and, in particular, the African literature in the field. Prof. Ichino is wonderful and very approachable and met with me when I had any questions about the material or the assignments. Highly recommend it!
An excellent way of understanding how Africanists see comparative politics. So essential if you want to become or engage with an Africanist. Perhaps less useful if you want to pursue purely applied research.
a great way to learn about the literature on African Politics
This class definitely requires time and commitment, but is well worth the effort if you have interest in sub-Saharan Africa.
Broad survey class on African politics - you get a taste of everything but you don't go indepth on anything.
heavy reading load but worthwhile
