This is a good survey of topics in moral philosophy. The readings are great and the professors are both very knowledgeable and approachable. The discussion at times felt very detached from actual political concerns, though.
Taking this as an undergrad is an amazing experience. Do the reading (some of which can be challenging) and you'll do well.
An opportunity to study with two excellent professors and some very engaged classmates in a small setting.
Reservations relate to class size as this has knock-on effects on the structure of the class and the depth of the conversation.
Think hard about whether an acquaintance with ethics is necessary for your intellectual interests. If it is, the class is well-taught and rewarding - even though not necessarily always fun. If not, it will frustrate you.
This course covers a lot of ground in a short period of time, bridging divides between political theory and philosophy.  Without much in the way of weekly assignments though, how much you get out of the class is very much up to you.
This seminar was arguably the best one I've taken here. The selection of readings and seminar room dynamics were both very conducive to critical engagement and serious exchange.
I would recommend the class, but warn students not to expect too much explicit integration with political theory debates.
If you like contemporary ethics, this is the class for you.
Very little focus on philosophical questions as they relate to political life. This course ought to have been in the Dept. of Philosophy; too little was done to bring the readings to bear on politics.
I would say that it is a good class for getting a large range of philosophy related to political theory. It is a lot of reading, but the readings are very good works.
A great introduction to contemporary analytic moral philosophy.
A key class for anyone interested in normative political theory.
It's fairly difficult material, but a pretty interesting class overall.
Everything about this course was engaging--the teachers are extremely well-informed about the material, discussions were great, the readings were excellent. I would recommend this to anyone with some background in ethics or philosophy.
If you know a lot about ethics and this kind of philosophy, you will enjoy the conversations. But you are unlikely to learn what you do not already know.
You need to learn this if you are a political theorist, even if you do historical work.
If you want to get to grips with the central debates in ethics, and like to approach philosophy with a political or pragmatic slant, this class is ideal. Having two professors leading discussions works very well.
This is a fantastic class. Do not take it if you are looking for an introduction to moral and political philosophy. However, if you have some knowledge of the subject and want to deepen your thinking about it dramatically, this is a great choice. Be advised that the class is more philosophical than political (which I thought was a strength).
That professor Rosen and Beerbohm come each with their own perspective to class, about different authors and ideas, and that you come out of the class with your own ideas while appreciating the ideas of your colleagues as well. They create a fabulous environment of learning.
It's a great course.
This is a really good intermediate course in moral philosophy. It'll make you think about the source of normativity.
"Ethical Foundations of Political Thought" is exactly what the title promises. It explores a broad range of ethical and moral questions and theories that underlie political thought. In the process it thoroughly explores some of the most fundamental human questions, "how should one live?" and, "what do we owe each other?" It prepares you for and leaves you right at the doorstep of the political question, "how should we live together?"
