This is the best course I've taken at Harvard. First off, lecturers are great and Professor Rosen does a great job of making the material interesting and engaging. Sections are also good because they compliment the readings and lecture nicely. I actually learned a lot during section. Finally the readings, although very long and time consuming, are great. I think we read most of two Pulitzer Prize winning books and a slew of other critically acclaimed ones. The readings do take time and you do have to commit to doing them, but it is definitely worth it. Take the class and learn from a professor who is truly passionate about what he is teaching!
This class is demanding with a high payoff. The readings are demanding, so be prepared for that. I probably was able to get through 70 percent of them, but even that was more reading than almost all the classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Rosen is a very good lecturer and generates enthusiasm for the subject. He'll lecture for half the class and take questions for the back half, and we would usually stay for awhile because people were so interested.
Great, engaging class with unique material that differs from a lot of gov classes at Harvard in that it takes history and puts it in context of a field that is more "alive". Lots of reading but for the most part it is super interesting; studying for the exams can be stressful because they account for so much of your grade but study groups aid immensely.
Take this course.
This is honestly my favorite class I have ever taken at Harvard. Rosen is a bonafide genius. His lectures are simultaneously interesting and enlightening, which takes immense skill when you are dealing with pretty heavy course material. He also does his lectures pretty much from his head. Which is insane. You will also learn so much about the world around you; not just about war and conflict, although you will learn a ton about that. But the motivations behind actions of military and civil leaders, strategies in war that apply to real life and vice versa, and just how sensitive balances of peace can be. I recommend this to literally everyone. Take this class. TAKE IT.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. I felt like I was learning something new everyday. The readings are heavy but so worth it.
Gov 1730 was one of my favorite courses I've taken in college. There is a tremendous amount of reading but if you know a lot about European and US history you can definitely skim some of it. Professor Rosen is brilliant and a wealth of knowledge when it comes to this topic. Section with Dan was phenomenal and his review sessions were always extremely helpful. By far the best part of this course was the simulation at the end. I had a ton of fun that week and learned a lot as well. I'd recommend this course to anyone doing a Gov concentration and even people who are just interested in the subject matter.
Some people are averse to this course because of the heavy reading load, but don't be. It is one of the BEST courses you will take at Harvard. The readings are all extremely useful and insightful--there is not a useless or unnecessary reading on the syllabus. Furthermore, Prof. Rosen is a passionate and genius teacher. The man knows basically everything about war, and will present it in the most modest manner. The lectures are extremely insightful, and the section always furthered your understanding of the reading. Tests and exams were also extremely fair. The best part of the class was the simulation where you get assigned to be a regional power and war-like scenarios occur--this was a great treat towards the end of the year, and also extremely rewarding.
Its a great course, with a great Professor and TF but its a lot of readings and you should be ready for that.
This course is great! It's a lot of work, so be willing to commit to readings, but its incredibly interesting, the lectures are stellar, and its very well done. Definitely take if you're interested in IR or security studies
Every ROTC cadet/midshipman should take this course!It is difficult with a lot of reading (300-500 pages per week), but totally worth it. Prof. Rosen is a great lecturer and answers any questions satisfactorily.
This is an excellent class, but do not take it if you are looking for a class with a light workload. You should do all of the readings (which can be 400+ pages) each week. It is too hard to "catch up" on the readings at the end of the semester or fully understand section or lecture without doing them. The course will be easier if you have some familiarity with the Civil War, WWI, WWII, and the Korean/Vietnam Wars. That being said, Professor Rosen is a fantastic lecturer and you learn a lot in the course. The class gave me a new perspective on the military engagements we have (and are) fighting and the ramifications of getting involved in a military conflict. The simulation at the end of the semester is fun and a great way of applying what you have learned in the course (and realizing all the problems you encounter in the real world). As Professor Rosen said at the beginning of the course, it is a "must take" course for people who will be in positions of power or influence in the government, and even an average citizen.
Do not be deterred by the reading list. This class is a must-take at Harvard. It will teach you how to think strategically, see the implications of actions, and thus help you be three steps ahead in whatever path you choose. I was a thesising senior who was applying to grad schools at the same time. There were many times when I struggled with the work load and was incredibly stressed with keeping up and staying caught up, and yet every minute was worth it. I will keep the notes from this class on my desk next year at my consulting job and later on in my career in the private sector. Rosen is also a fantastic, engaging, structured lecturer. He explains WHY things are important (something professors rarely do here) before he delves into the topic. This way, you are fully engaged and invested.
This is a great class: Professor Rosen is a great teacher and an excellent lecturer. His class manages to engross students in his topics. From his Q&As every class to the breadth of detail offered in each lecture, his content (when combined with the Teaching Fellow's role as someone who reflects on the said content) make this class one any student should consider taking.
Absolutely worth taking if you are interested in military history and strategic thinking.
Readings are massive, but the course is so well taught and covers such interesting material it's worth it. No surprise in this course; it is clear what is expected of you in section and on the two exams, and it's not a secret that the way to succeed in this class is to just read, read some more, and listen in lecture.
Prof. Rosen is great. Lectures are engaging and there are extensive opportunities to ask questions that really expand the discussion. Tons of reading, but you're in college, you should be able to deal with it and figure out what's important and what's not. There are no papers, just a midterm and final, so consider if that will make this a more stressful class or a less stressful class for you. I felt that David's teaching style made sections miserable and unproductive, but there are probably a range of opinions on this.
If you're a history buff (especially interested in military history), take this class! Professor Rosen is an incredible lecturer with encyclopedic knowledge of wars. He highlights key theoretical concepts at the start of the course and helps you trace the development of those concepts through really fascinating historical cases. The reading load is heavy so not a class to take lightly, but definitely worth it.
Be prepared to read A LOT. But when you fight through and find the right techniques it will be worth it. Truly novel view on war and politics.
Be ready to read alot and be accountable for these readings
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. I thoroughly enjoyed the professor, TF, materials, and other classmates--it was really what I was looking for in terms of a stellar elective. Not only is the course material fascinating and important, but also the course is extremely well-organized/structured, and the professor clearly cares about his students. I looked forward to the reading every week, and the lectures were usually the highlight of my day. Even if you may feel you do not know a lot about the material when starting the class, if you're the least bit curious about warfare, intelligence, and how they interact with politics, I encourage you to take 1730--it's absolutely worth it.
Gov 1730 us a challenging but rewarding examination into the theories of Strategy and War developed throughout history.
A class to put in your schedule immediately.
SO. MUCH. READING. Also David is a great TF who really cares about the subject and his students (he goes out of his way to have extra office hours and be available for help--take advantage of this!!!), but be prepared for section: it requires significant participation and felt almost competitive at times. Lectures were fantastic--Prof Rosen knows his stuff, and the lectures never last the full two hours. When I actually managed to get through the reading and survive section, I really enjoyed the class--when I didn't have time to do the reading (which was a shame because the readings are generally pretty cool) I had no idea what was going on. Overall great class, but as a science major with significant lab and extracurricular commitments the amount of reading we were expected to do was totally unrealistic.
The reading load is very difficult, but the class is really enlightening and interesting.
Take this class! Professor Rosen is one of the best professors I have had here in my four years at Harvard. He has such an adorable, approachable personality and is extremely knowledgable in his field and gives fantastic lectures. He literally just stands in the front of the room with no powerpoint and talks for 2 hours, and I am always fascinated and entertained, which is no easy feat. Class is never boring, and he taught us SO MUCH. I remember one week he got so passionate about what he was teaching that he got choked up while talking about racism and the Civil War and had to pause; it was such a powerful moment that you could hear a pin drop. He not only is an amazing lecturer, and expert in his field, but is also just an overall adorable person.

David Howell, the TF for this course, is literally the best TF I have ever had here at Harvard, hands down. At first, I think a lot of people were intimidated by him, but for the same reason that I love him: he expects quality, and he pushes us to produce it. Yes, he is intense, but in a good way. He is an excellent teacher and not just an expert in the subject (a common problem here at Harvard unfortunately) and teaches you not only facts, but how to think critically and how to study and retain information. I cannot stress enough how highly I regard and respect David. He also has a heart of gold and genuinely wants his students to do well, and is always accessible outside of class time and genuinely wants to know his students, which is also rare at Harvard. He always was putting together extended office hours and study sessions for us, which was wonderful. Rosen and David are such a dream team.

Lastly, aside from my fan-girling over the teaching staff, this is a great solution to the Government International Relations requirement. I had absolutely NO background with military/war history/theory, and I was hesitant about what to expect. The course covers a TON of material, a cool mix of history and theorists and readings from Rosen himself. I will say this: THIS CLASS HAS A HUGE AMOUNT OF READING.  But don't let that alone deter you from taking the course! It was hard for me, since I was in five classes this semester, but with three or four I would have been able to manage it.
One of my favorite classes ever. David Howell was a demanding but supportive and ultimately effective TF. Rosen is an incredible resource, a great conversationalist, but a dry lecturer who needs to learn how to use PowerPoint. The lectures' dryness was the ONLY fault whatsoever with the class IMO. Yes the readings were long and many, but I thought they were all excellent and relevant. Exams were very tough but fair, so don't expect to coast at all.
Personally, the subject matter was interesting enough by itself for me to really enjoy this class; I really wanted to take a military history course and, unfortunately, Harvard doesn't really offer that, so this is the closest thing. However, the heavy reading load and, to some extent, the way section is done would make me hesitant to recommend this course to many of my peers.
This is a great class. The material is interesting, as are the lectures. There is a huge amount of reading, so it would be useful to know how to sift through what is often 500 pages in a week.
If you are interested in the topic matter, certainly take the class. It is, however, a ton of reading and there are high expectations of your participation and work on exams.
This course focuses on war history mixed with theory but does not involve politics as much as I would have liked. If you are interested in specific war strategies, leaders, and technology, this course provides fantastic historical examples. It does not really study domestic or international politics during wartime, nor does it focus on modern warfare until the final three weeks.
For students who have an interest and general knowledge of wars and combat, this course will likely be easier and more interesting for you. I had hardly any knowledge of wars and I found it extremely challenging but also very interesting. I learned a lot in this class, more than most of my courses this semester.
This class is certainly very interesting, and the passion that Rosen brings to the subject each day is unparalleled. The workload is a bit ridiculous, and if you don't know how to quickly read through hundreds of pages a week and find the important bits for class discussion, you will struggle tremendously. An intimidating class, as it should be, given its difficulty and workload, but if you like the subject matter, there's no course at Harvard that will teach you more about war.
This is the best class I have taken. 

Professor Rosen will change the way you think about war, no matter what your interest in the field is. From policy wonk to ROTC soldier, we're all doing it wrong. Rosen takes you back to basics to think hard about strategy. 

The course centers around theory rather than the history of war, largely to its credit. By focusing on the ideas of theorists first, and then considering historical wars as case studies to test theory, Rosen creates a conceptual narrative, and walks through actual wars in a thoughtful, coherent way. Further, the course does not hold any one theory to be authoritative; instead, each represents a potential tool in the analysis of strategies. You can and will find excellent opportunities to shred the ideas of the greatest theorists. 

You will have to do a huge amount of reading to enjoy the course. There is no avoiding this and you should not take the course if you cannot keep up with the readings. 

The simulation was incredible, although it would be better if it could be longer.
Herculean amount of reading.  Be prepared, but it's worth it.
It's worth the work to take this! Prof. Rosen is amazing!
This course is difficult but totally worth it. You should make sure that this class is the class with your most work in the semester because you will need the time and you will want to take the time to devote to it. This is a great class to pair with a more general international relations survey course because then there ends up being a lot of overlap. Also, go to Professor Rosen's office hours because they will totally be worth it.
Professor Rosen has prepared an impressive introduction to explaining why the wars of the past two centuries turned out the way they did, and how the consequences of each led to the beginning of the next and to where we are today. It is a rigorous but engaging course for those interested in the history surrounding one of the most fascinating activities of man.
This course will provide valuable knowledge about war and politics that can be applied to many other pursuits.
This is by far one of the best classes I've taken here. Both Professor Rosen and David know so much about the topic and the history of war. They make the class enjoyable. It's one of those of classes where you actually want to learn and remember the information you are given. And even after the class, you'll use the knowledge you got for other things. 

The reading is a little heavy, but ask David to teach you how to deal with that! He has some great reading tips that'll really help.
Gov 1730 is an incredibly strong and polished course. Professor Rosen is one of those classic Harvard professors about whom you say, "you have to take a course from him before you graduate." His lectures are extremely engaging and dynamic, and his real experience in foreign policy provides a unique structural and theoretical perspective on historical events and the future of war. The simulation is fantastic - don't miss it! Most of us wished we had more of them! As a science major and a government secondary, this class simply made my semester. Take this class if you are at all interested in war theory and/or the political-military apparatus and how it works.
rosen is great! lectures are fascinating. make sure you keep up with the readings.
This in an INCREDIBLE class if you're interested in the strategy, conduct and operations of war. Professor Rosen is a wonderful lecturer, and the readings are really interesting, although pretty extensive and time consuming. Its just two exams so its not too bad in terms of workload. I also highly recommend taking this after Professor Walt's Origins of Modern Wars in the spring. They're very complementary. Another great part of this class is that you study theorists such as Sun Tzu, Clausewitz and Kautilya and then their application to various wars.
Interesting course on the themes of major world conflicts, looking at what motivates strategic and tactical decisions. Historically focused, lots of reading, but with contemporary relevance. Go to lecture.
Join a study group to handle the fact that there are 400+ pages of readings some weeks.  Pay close attention the first few weeks, because the theories presented are applicable the rest of the semester as you study the various wars.  Due to the nature of the material, there are a limited number of possible essay topics, so don't be afraid that your grades depend 80% on two exams, there were no surprises on either exam.
Loved this course. If you want a war course that actually talks about the wars themselves than you've found it. You're grade comes almost exclusively from the midterm and the final, so bring your A game those two dates. Lots of reading assigned but we're all adults here.
This class was amazing. I had no background information and learned a ton. This class is really great.
It's a ton of reading, but overall I think the class is really interesting.
Great Course.
Incredibly interesting class. Fantastic. Only a midterm and a final.
Class is worth it just for engaging with Professor Rosen and his lectures. Shouldn't expect too much outside that
This course is fantastic! There are a lot of readings, but they are all incredibly interesting. I recommend you try taking some of them out in the break (probably summer) before the class begins--they will be so interesting that it won't feel like work at all!
Ok, so if you don't do the readings and don't go to lecture, then this would probably be a pretty tough class. But if you do, it's really a cakewalk. Our only assessments were the final and the midterm, and if you know the material reasonably well, neither will be a struggle. Plus, the lectures are phenomenal--Rosen is probably the best lecturer I've ever had, and he keeps things very to the point and interesting. The readings are great too; sometimes they can be a bit drily analytical but they're always informative and useful. I took this as an elective fifth class and didn't find it to be much of a burden at all. It was really just a ton of fun start to finish (and the simulation, as anyone can tell you, is a blast). If the subject matter interests you, this will be one of the best classes you ever take.
Definitely the best class I've taken so far!
If you're prepared to do a lot of reading, this class is worth taking. Rosen's an entertaining if occasionally racist lecturer, and the material is interesting stuff.
Although this class will primarily appeal to military junkies, anyone with an interest in management, bureaucracy, or even drama will find it engrossing. I'm an humanities concentrator with little interest in the military, but Rosen's lectures often emphasize the human stories and anecdotes behind the somewhat bland concepts like "force deployment," "intra-war learning," "defense-in-depth," etc. People with an interest in management (political and commercial) will gain a great deal. The readings are also excellent and, despite their length, definitely skimmable.Surprisingly, the worst part of the class were the military junkies and ROTC students. Not only did they tend to chime in with totally irrelevant and arcane details from Civil War or WWII history, but their analyses were often simplistic or just plain stupid. They also happened to be the ones who spoke up the most in section.
This is not a government IR course thought about in a traditional way of theory and cases supporting or diverging from it.  It's a history course, but one with major perks for any Harvard student.  This is an excellent course that forces you to think in a critical way.  Don't pass this course off thinking that it is not for you (military-oriented).  I for one am not a military history buff.  While you gain a keen insight onto parts of American history that high school textbooks really fail to capture, War and Politics also will leave you with some takeaways that will help you in whatever endeavors you choose pursue: (how does new technology fit into organizations, the role of relationships in getting tasks done, how quickly organizations learn, and the roles of politicians both in a domestic sense and a military sense.I strongly strongly recommend this course to anyone.  It is a lot of reading, but you can break it up with classmates.  The lectures are to die for--it will make you think completely differently about history.  Take it while Rosen is still here!
Take it. It's worth the effort
This course is famous for requiring a lot of reading, but that's not the most important aspect of the course. The reading is fascinating--it was never a burden to do the 1730 reading. However, you really aren't evaluated on it, making the reading (unintentionally) optional. Rosen's a great military scholar, and you really do have the opportunity to interact with him every lecture. This course has been taught for many years, which makes the lectures polished, but sometimes missing obvious chances to mesh with current events. This course is rigorously evaluated, but you learn a lot of really fun material. Not for everyone, but a pleasure for some.
This class is by far one of the best I have taken and I learned so much. Professor Rosen is amazing and is really engaging with the material. The class has a lot of reading but for someone who had no background on any of the subject, I enjoyed it so much. It was my favorite class of the semester. Even if you don't think you are interested in the subject, at least give it a chance and shop the class.
You will learn a lot, but the readings are too long, there are not enough assignments (zero papers) and the exams are not optimally formatted.
Solid class for getting a background in the subject. Over-emphasis on Sun Tzu - Clausewitz dichotomy at the expense of more complex analysis. Rosen presents a very particular viewpoint, which I didn't always think was correct/substantiated by his own lectures. You need to be prepared to read (or at least skim) a lot of material. There is, in fact, too much material to allow for the sort of discussion that would make the course really worthwhile.
This class is a unique opportunity and definitely worth taking even if you have relatively little experience in the subject matter.
You will need to read selectively and efficiently because there is a ton of reading.
There's a lot of reading, but this course is worth it. I have no regrets -- Rosen is a fantastic lecturer and so knowledgeable, and the course materials and lectures are fascinating. To help with the workload get in a study group of about 4-5 people early on to divide up the readings and assemble study guides. Staying on top of the theory readings especially along with focusing in lectures is the key to doing well in the class - Rosen's lectures will guide you to the topics you need to really know for the exams.
If you like war history, you will definitely enjoy course. Professor Rosen not only knows the subject deeply, but is also a great lecturer. The TFs were the best I have had at Harvard, and contributed immensely to the course. The reading is extensive, but, in most cases, very good.Grading is the only flaw. You might find that writing fast is more important than actually knowing the material.
If you don't have an interest in the subject matter, God help you.  Best class I've ever taken.  Ever.
If you come into this course seriously, do the reading, hunker down and make this course a serious priority, you will enjoy it and it should be fine.  If not, sections and tests will be very painful, as everyone is working harder than you.  It is only for a few days though, right?  But you will not do well.  Otherwise, this course is exceptional.
Take it--but only if you're willing to do the readings.
Professor Rosen is a great lecturer!  The course can be intimidating, but the class is definitely worth taking if you're interested in the material.
Be prepared to read a lot
The course requires a TON of reading, but it is so interesting, and I don't think anyone interested in international relations should graduate without taking this class. Rosen is wonderful-his lectures and the course overall make the reading worth it!
a lot of reading and hard to get a good grade but rosen is incredible and you will learn so much fascinating material
Altough the class is a lot of work and a lot of reading, it makes the entire experience of the course worth it.
If you are willing to put in the hours, then take this, by all means.
A lot of work but a fantastic class. One of my best at Harvard
The subject material is incredibly interesting and intensely relevant. As long as you know how to read efficiently and effectively, you'll probably love it. If you're the sort of person that has to read every word or none at all, it may be a big source of stress for you simply because of the amount of readings.
look at the readings on the syllabus and determine if reading them would genuinely interest you.  there is no other homework, there are no papers, and the lectures generally mirror the readings.
High work and high rewards
This is a great class if you are truly interested in the material. Do not feel daunted by the amount of reading, it is necessary and interesting.
If you enjoyed the History Channel specials on military history, you'll love this course.   But this course goes beyond the history and into interesting theoretical arguments on war.  Don't take the course if a heavy reading load bothers you.
Tell the professor to slow down if he starts talking too fast.
I would recommend this course but only to people who really love the subject of war and are willing to do the intense amount of reading required of the course. This is a difficult course.
Come ready to read.
Be prepared to read a lot, or you should form reading group and share the readings...If you can overcome this you will enjoy the course a lot! :)
Take it for Professor Rosen alone, he makes it well worth it.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading.  Without papers, it may seem like the workload is minimal, but this is a class were most of the reading must be done.  Overall, an excellent class and a great change of pace in government track.
It's one of the best Gov classes I've ever taken. It is very history-based, so you learn about different wars and why they're significant, but at the same time, you learn about theories of war conduct that are extremely interesting and always relevant. What I also loved about this class was that it tried to minimize the amount of BS that can often be seen in many Gov classes. The readings are long, but worth it. The TFs are really amazing, and Professor Rosen is a really great lecturer and very friendly.
Do not take this as a fifth class. Do not take this if you are averse to reading large quantities of work and being responsible for a great deal of the knowledge therein. Having said that, the professor and TFs are simply superb and the concepts are reviewed thoroughly and in an interesting manner that encourages the students to think critically about he concepts at hand.
Professor Rosen said at the beginning of the course that understanding the basics of war is part of being an educated citizen.  The course has done a good job of teaching us those basics, as well as many points beyond the basics.  The only drawback is the large amount of reading, usually several hundred pages per week.
great class; but you have to do the readings and stay on top of the class
Just be prepared for a lot of reading that needs to be mostly done to be effective on the exams.
This is a great class. Do not be intimidated by the reading list or the reputation for difficulty. It is not any more difficult than other classes, and the content really is great if you're interested in military history or the conduct of warfare in general.
It's a lot of work that has to be done (you can't fake your way through it), but it's a brilliant class that's worth the effort.
Do not take this class if you shy away from large amounts of reading (400-500 pages a week at least) or from really difficult classes that are totally worthwhile nonetheless.
Form a study group with 3-4 people, and split up the task of summarizing the readings on a weekly basis (rather than leaving it all for the end).
This class is one of the most interesting I have taken in the government department, but it is the most difficult. There are thousands of pages to read throughout the semester and with section counting for 25% it is definitely not something you can miss or be unprepared for. The teaching staff, especially the head T.F. Tyler, though, were very enthusiastic, if not playfully intimidating at times. In the end, it was a great challenge and I was satisfied that I took the course for the sheer difficulty.
Lots of reading but if you set up a good study group it will be a very enjoyable course. Great teaching staff
Totally Awesome Class!!!!!!!
Not easy. Everyone in the class is a military junkie.  Perfect for the right kind of student.
Very interesting but not for everyone.
Be prepared to read a lot, and learn about military strategy. So much of it!
You need to do most of the reading and go to lecture.  If you do this, you will learn more than in any other Gov class.  It's reputation of being extremely difficult is overblown.  It's pretty normal
interesting topics, historical readings very good on the whole, students are taught about useful subjects that transcend academic applications.  Lectures can be a bit disjointed/unrelated to the assigned readings, but they are usually good anyway.  Be ready to read a lot and not get too much feedback as there are not many assignments in this course.
There is a lot of reading involved but its really interesting and if you're willing to put in effort for this class, it'll be great.
Tons of reading. Tons.
This is my favorite class of all the classes I have taken here.  Yes, it was incredibly hard.  Yes, we were assigned hundreds of pages of reading a week.  However, the class was absolutely fascinating and incredibly fun.  The simulation at the end of the semester was awesome.  The exams are the only assignments, and they're not easy.  However, I recommend that anyone with an interest in military history take this course.
It's hard work and the grading is tough but it's so worth it.  You learn so much in an environment that makes you almost glad to slog through the reading; if you think you have any interest in the subject matter, definitely  take the chance.
You have to read a lot, but you'll learn a ton.
A very interesting class, tons of reading though. I suggest forming a study group or figuring out what to skim
Do yourself a favor and take this class. The readings are excellent, Rosen is incredibly knowledgable and it doesn't even matter that he runs more conservative than any of my other professors!
If you're considering a career in the military or politics, TAKE THIS COURSE. It's also just a very well run and interesting government course. Probably not for freshmen or sophomores, as the material assumes some base knowledge of IR.Professor Rosen has a reputation of being difficult...the exams were not difficult as long as you listen in lecture and make sure you know the list of IDs given to you before the midterm and finals. Lots of reading, like 400+ pages a week. So make a few friends from section and split that s*** up. Although, honestly, I felt the assigned readings were essential for a thorough knowledge of the material, and glad I did them, I don't think they were strictly necessary for a good grade in the course, especially as you could wikipedia the ID terms in a crunch. What appears on the midterm and final are covered in lecture and section with the IDs. That being said, the readings are extremely interesting.
I loved this class, but honestly, don't take it if you aren't ready to do the hundreds of pages of reading a week.  The course will be much, much easier if you keep up with the reading.  Professor Rosen is a great lecturer and I feel like I learned a lot.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. If you are at all interested in military history and wars, this is a phenomenal class.
This class is really good. There is a substantial amount of reading, but you can split it up in study groups so it is not so bad. The lectures are amazing, and the readings are really interesting. This is not an introductory class though. A lot of people in the class either do some research/take some classes related to national security / history or have some prior background in it. To feel comfortable with the material, you need some familiarity with the subject matter. I probably would not recommend it to science majors. For GOV/History concentrators, this class is a must. It also really improved my writing skills. The class is probably worth it just for Prof. Rosen too since he is such a great person and amazing teacher.
You just have to keep up with the readings and be active in the class and youll do fine
If you are at all interested in why the eventual victors win wars, take this course! Prof. Rosen is a great lecturer and really brings the topic to life. This is the one course where I plan to read the unassigned parts of the books over break.
A great class but very hard. Make sure you are interested in war/international relations.
If you are interested in  military history or political and military theory, this course is fantastic. Professor Rosen is an experienced and engaging lecturer and he taught a version of this class at the Naval War College.
