Lots of work, and lots of reading
You need to be ably to enjoy even the most dull and monotonous things. If your hobbies include watching grass grow, iron rust, or gluing individual sparkles to sheets of paper then this is the class for you. The overwhelming amount of uninteresting readings will suck out any of the joy in the class that you might have had otherwise. Honestly, I think your background necessary should just be this post and that background is just advice not to take this class.
Be prepared to spend an hour a day reading this stuff, and form a reading group. Otherwise the amount of material you haven't covered will pile on top of you later on.
Be prepared to do lots and lots of readings, many of which seem not to make sense, but all of which are incredibly interesting.
This class is a very good introduction to political science even if you haven't done much with political science before. I didn't have Levitsky as a lecturer but I hear he's amazing; Dr. Soroka was pretty good too. The first few weeks of the class are really difficult because you jump right in with a lot of theory -- make sure to be clear about where economic development theories end and democratization theories start. The last few weeks of the class are the best because you talk about real world examples that use the tools you've learned throughout the rest of the class and you realize what the point of the paradigms and all the theory was. It's important to note that the amount of reading for this class is ridiculous -- learn to skim. Seriously. You can get away with just listening in section and lecture but it's much better if you skim most of the readings to get the main points and then have more to discuss.
There is an overwhelming amount of reading. You will find (unfortunately, rather late in the course) that not all of it is necessary to complete, because some of it is never discussed in lecture or tested. A good TF is crucial for this course. People who enjoyed this class typically have somewhat of extensive background in government or politics, often beyond the scope of America.
This class is very reading heavy, and to fully understand the concepts presented, you really do need to do the readings. Often the texts can be wordy, dense, and repetitive. That being said, the class is great if you are interested in pursuing a path in government. Dr. Soroka was generally engaging in lecture, though the lectures are very fast-paced and require full-attention. In general, GOV 20 proved to be an interesting, but definitely challenging, course.
Very current affairs-y, not very ideological.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on readings.
This class has a ridiculous amount of reading.  It is virtually impossible, and unnecessary, to do all the reading in the course syllabus.  Lectures were pretty interesting, but keep in mind that I took this class with Soroka, and I've heard Levitsky is great.
It requires a lot of reading and so is not conducive to student athletes who are in season!
This class is very difficult. You will find yourself hating it at times when you have 200 pages of reading for gov 20 and a million other things in other classes, but I found that when I sat down to write papers and take exams I was amazed at the amount of information I and retained. To actually make the class worthwhile I would encourage students to try and do as much reading as they find possible.
Do not take this class unless you are willing to invest time in doing all the readings and preparing for section. That being said, the readings are very manageable and the course content is interesting. If you plan on being a Social Studies or Government concentrator, this course is a must-take. Soroka is a good lecturer, although the quality of teaching fellows is variable.
Gov 20 is a great introduction to comparative politics and gives a basic understanding of many of the most important theories and concepts in the field.
challenging, but very rewarding and covers a breadth of material in depth to provide a solid foundation
Great but a lot of work.
This is an extraordinary class.  One of those seminal courses at Harvard that would be such a shame to miss.  I learned more about world history than I ever have before.  I feel that I am immeasurably better informed, as a citizen of the US and of the world.  I feel that it's made me more understanding of other cultures and their histories.  It's made me think about human and societal differences - how they come about, how they are perceived, how they affect the world and the world affects them... This course provided context to contemporary international politics, which is extremely helpful.  It's made me think differently about foreign policy and the global balance of power.  It made me question previously held beliefs about ethics, politics, religion, economics, social psychology... This course has expanded my mind like no other course ever has.  Tips to tackle the insane amount of course material: do not spend too much time on any one reading!  Especially at the beginning of the course.  ALWAYS skim for main ideas and take notes on just those.  DO NOT attempt to take thorough notes of every reading (with all the details).  Just write down thesis/summaries and then annotate the actual readings themselves so you can go back and use them to study later.
This course teaches you important skills for the academic and non-academic world. Forces you to learn how to read and dissect material quickly and with purpose. Also teaches important writing skills.
Great class. Lots of reading, but it's pretty manageable if you skim (which they actively encourage you to). If you're interested in delving deep into a specific topic, don't take this class. Gov 20 is more about covering general overviews of political theories.
A pretty interesting class. The readings are very dense and is the only homework in the class besides the occasional essay. I found section discussions to be very interesting. Since the discussions are based on the readings, though, it is helpful to do those readings beforehand. My section leader would always send out "discussion questions" that we were gonna go over in class which helped eliminate some readings that we didn't necessarily need to do. Also, Soroka isn't exactly a great lecturer. Pretty entertaining, but not that exciting or interesting.
Everyone should take Gov 20 because in one course it changes your perspective on the causes and consequences of political outcomes worldwide. I think it is the best single class at Harvard in preparing you to be an informed world citizen.
The readings were long and dense, and honestly, are hardly covered in lecture/section. It's disappointing, really, because you spend a good amount of time going through them, only to have a long, complex (and interesting) argument made by a famous political scientist only cursorily covered. Also, the lectures can be a little dry - it's difficult to engage yourself in the material if there is little enthusiasm being projected during class. Overall, the class is a good introduction to the field of comparative politics, despite its occasional drudgery.
While the readings of this class are dense and lengthy, if one takes the effort to unpack them, these texts are rich with comprehensive and penetrating analysis.
Gov 20 may have a lot of readings, but it's worth the work when your put the effort into the course.
If you want to learn about why there are so many political systems in the world then this class is for you.
The syllabus has a ton of reading but most of them are very interesting and the grading is very fair if you put in the work.
good course to explain how the global political world works in theories but be aware about the numerous and dry weekly readings
If you want to develop a more spherical view of the world, then take it. You don't need to be a gov concentrator to have an enjoyable semester
If you like gov, you'll probably be okay with this class.
Gov 20 is an awesome class that I would highly recommend to students that have an interest in learning about various issues that affect political systems across the world. You will get OUT of the class what you put IN to it. That being said, there is a large amount of reading (150+ pages per week) in the class and most students have difficulty completing it. Being someone highly interested in government and politics, I loved the course material, but I am not sure if other students would enjoy it as much as I did. Section is awesome, you get to debate the theories put forth by authors and think critically about whether you believe they are convincing. Dr. Soroka is an interesting lecturer, particularly if you have an interest in Eastern European politics.
If you are prepared to do all of the reading, then you might walk out of this class as a gov concentrator.
This course covers a very broad range of subjects within comparative government very well.  The concepts that are introduced in this course are very applicable to current global events, which ultimately makes the experience very satisfying.
A lot of reading, can be overwhelming for athletes, so definitely form reading groups. If you don't like your TF, SWITCH RIGHT AWAY, because it makes or breaks the class. This could just be because Soroka is teaching it as opposed to Levitsky.
This class is interesting, but I would only take it if I had a genuine interest in government or politics. There is a lot of reading, and if you are just trying to get rid of a gen-ed, this is not the class for you. This is a class where you actually have to do a majority of the reading. It is used on essays, in section, and on exams.
This class was a great intro into the gov world. A lot of reading, but well worth it. The topics are all varied and interesting, with a wide selection of theorists and studies. Definitely requires a good bit of work. I would probably dissuade students from taking it who just want to fulfill a gen ed. It was only my enthusiasm for the course material (as a future concentration) that made the reading load manageable.
Take this class if you want to know how states and governments come to exist and function.
Be ready to do a lot of reading.
Sean Paul Ashley is the G.O.A.T! I was thinking of dropping the course at some points because I wasn't enjoying the lectures that much but section really saved the course for me. He always made the content interesting and facilitated discussion well - he really knows his stuff. I would always look forward to going to section and any readings that I didn't understand were clarified well by him. Also, Sean is extremely accessible for office hours and responds quickly to emails. I had a love-hate relationship with Gov at the start  but with hindsight, I learned a lot and if I were to go back I'd still pick this course. A Government concentration may be a possibility for me now...
This class is great if you are considering concentrating in government.
Unreal amount of reading per week.
The readings for this class are overwhelmingly white. I felt much more like the subject of analysis rather than the agent of it. It also rarely steps out of the Western-democracy-capitalism-exceptionalism mindset, which is fine normally but disappointing in a class of comparative politics.
This class is a lot of work.
Very much dependent on your ability to read.
The readings are cumbersome and lengthy, but if you figure out how to read properly and are interested even remotely in Gov this is a great class.
This course is incredible! Take it if you want a great look at comparative politics. The TFs are very knowledgable and helpful. They do not try to spite you but rather to support you!
A lot of reading, but it's worth it if you're interested in the material.
This course is a lot of work but is very manageable.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading. The reading is dense and difficult to understand. There is a lot of unnecessary information in them that is difficult to sort through.
Be aware that this is a class with a ton of reading. Also be aware that some of it will not be interesting, because this is an introductory course so a lot of the material will be basic theory that lays the ground work for a lot of the more interesting and more complicated policy that one hears about. Also, try to be sure to get a good TF, because section can be really, really helpful when it comes to summarizing the readings you couldn't get to that week, which will happen frequently.
If you're looking at majoring in gov it's a good way to take an intro course. Take it when you're a freshmen and learn how to read and write well early.
It's a great introduction to the Government concentration and confirmed by desire to concentrate in Gov, but even if you don't want to concentrate it's a great course to just inform yourself about comparative politics and current events!
This was my absolute favorite class. Section is so engaging and the TFs push you to think in very unique ways. The lectures and topics are all very interesting as well.
Be prepared to read more than you ever expected, even after reading the Q guide.
This class is a lot of work, but incredibly rewarding. You walk out with an entirely new perspective on world events.
If you have a serious interest in comparative politics, take the class. If you do not, this class can become a serious burden after a while.
This is not your typical entry level course. If you want to challenge yourself to understand the plausible causal factors behind the way the world works, this course is for you. If you want to work retroactively to find proactive solutions to phenomena ranging from democratization to ethnic conflict, this course is for you. If you are willing to expend the time and energy to do the readings and actively engage with them, this course is for you. It is certainly a lot of work, but it is worth it. As you get to explore your own suggestions of possible explanations, you begin to find just how much you have learned over the course of the semester. The readings are hefty, but this course was unquestionably my greatest source of enjoyment and new knowledge, all the while challenging me in new, frustrating, but exciting ways.
Although this class may have been useful for some potential gov concentrators, it is the reason why I decided not to concentrate in gov. The course expectations were absurd for a mostly freshman class, and I already knew the vast majority of the historical information taught in the class from AP and Honors courses in high school.
Levitsky's lectures were really good. Section was not.
It is a wonderful course but be mindful of balancing workload with other courses because Gov 20 assigns a large amount of reading.
This is an excellent introduction to government course, very good for people possibly interested in concentrating, or people who just want to get a basic grasp of how political systems work.
I loved it! Great class, great professor. Definitely worth taking.
Levitsky is a wondeful lecturer
The amount that you get out of this course depends entirely on how much effort you put in.
Great course but be prepared for  a lot of reading.
Professor Levitsky is a fantastic and engaging lecturer.  However, the reading is overwhelming in quantity and often dry.
Levitsky is SO AWESOME! But take Latin America instead of this for the better Levitsky experience.
I think there are better gov classes out there.
Take this class if you want to do a lot of reading and thinking. If you are good at filtering opinions and choosing theories that you believe are correct, this is a good class for you.
The course is good for those interested in history and political theory. It is extremely relevant to understanding the political nature of the world today.
there is a lot of reading, but grading is fair and section leaders are very good
Make sure you set aside time for readings.  Transfer readings to a binder, do not read them in the bound packet, it is just hard to read that way.
only take this class if you are prepared to do a LOT of reading
This class is best-suited to students with a strong interest in the material.
Only take this class if you are seriously interested in politics and don't mind reading a lot of material on the subject.
It is a must-take class from a must-take professor.
You will leave the class with a broad understanding of comparative politics and the methods political scientists use in formulating theories.
Amazing class, strongly recommend to anyone considering government
I feel that this class is important for my understanding of political systems around the world.
This course is a good gateway into the government department.
This was a good introductory class with an interesting and engaging lecturer and a good group of TF's leading it.
Professor Levitsky is an engaging professor who really makes comparative politics come to life.  Course material covers a broad range of international issues and gives a good basic comprehension of fields within comparative politics.
This class is great for understanding how to analyze and make sense of seemingly random world events.
Don't do all the readings
To fully experience a Harvard education, you must take this class.
be prepared to feel like a slacker for never doing the readings from the coursebook you paid $100 for. it is all worth it in the end though; you really learn some fascinating concepts and Prof. Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer with great energy.
It is far harder than last years CUE guide made it out to be. Don't be fooled!
It is among the better classes available in th gov department.
This is a very good class to take as a freshman because it very quickly introduces you to the demands of college reading. Also, the lecture topics and case studies are very interesting and make the readings worthwhile.
They must try and catch up with readings if they want to follow the lectures and section discussions.
AMAZING. Everyone should take this, even if just to experience a Levitsky lecture.
If you are interested in politics or government at all, you should not miss this course.  However, be prepared to read, because not doing so is really a waste as the readings are a huge part of the educational experience the course offers.  If you are not interested in the subject, then the work will be too intense and unsatisfying.
Begin to compile list of key terms and their explanations early in the course (write in description of definitions immediately after lecture, when information is fresh).  Use of online videos also important.  Don't read every word in the course pack; grasp the theories of respective authors, and read in-depth to get quotes for essays.  Best to work in groups to get through weekly reading list (study groups recommended).
Take it! An excellent foundation for any political course.
It is very interesting but there is a lot of reading.
The course is extremely interesting and touches on a lot of hot foriegn policy topics today. The lectures are informative and are given by an enthusiastic professor. The readings, while sometimes a bit long, give you the opportunity to read works by a variety of well-respected authors.
its a survey course so a little broad in scope for my tastes
This is a good class if you're interested in getting your feet wet in political science.  You cover the main theories and important scholars.
Elitists will often sneer at this course as being too crowded, unoriginal, and simplistic; but on the contrary, you will learn to think for yourself here. Lectures are excellent, and remember that size is not necessarily inverse to quality; here, it was direct.
Work in groups on the readings, as they will become daunting if you try to read everything on your own. Attend lectures, as they can also summarize the readings. Additionally, keep up with current events so that you have examples to discuss in class other than those presented in lecture and readings.
This is a very interesting class and it covers quite a lot of material.
Unless you have an amazing amount of time to devote specifically to this class, forming a study group to get through the readings is definitely a good idea.
Levitsky is great - his lectures are so easy to understand, he covers the important topics of the readings, he's funny, and you learn so much in those one-hour lectures.
This is a great introduction to the field of comparative politics.  Moreover, Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer.
The professor is an amazing lecturer and you will learn a huge amount of information about the world if you enroll in this class.
Professor Levitsky is the most approachable, enthusiastic and devoted professor you will ever have at Harvard. And you can have him as a freshman!
Too many readings.  Very interesting subject matter.
It is amazing and the knowledge can be used in any other government class.
You don't have to do all the readings, just work in study groups and split them up and discuss the ones that you weren't able to get to.
This is a good class: organized, well run, and interesting. Reading is substantial, but it's manageable.
THough it might not be the best course to help you determine whether or not you want to be a gov concentrator your freshman your, it is definitely a class worth taking at some point.
It's interesting but not the best way to get a look at the government department. Too much reading and too broad. If you are taking it to get an idea of what the gov department is like, I would suggest taking a different. non-intro course.
This is a great way to fulfill a Comparative Gov requirement or a Social Analysis Core.
Professor Levitsky is amazing; take the class in one of the years that he teaches it.
The reading sucks, and the topic of the course is pretty irrelevant. Take a different gov class.
Professor Levitsky is incredible, both in the way he presents difficult material fluidly and comprehensively in class, and in his complete dedication to undergraduate students.  He is full of energy and well-versed.  Not to mention that he looks like George Clooney, which is pretty cool too.
It is a great class to learn about comparitive politics in a broad sense and professor levitsy is truly an amazing lecturer, however be ready to have a daunting amount of reading to do. It is managable though!
Professor Levitsky gives a superlative overview of politics as they have arisen in the industrialized world, and provides examples to show how countries do or do not develop and democratize in the present context.
Engaging professor and interesting topics.
Take only if you're interested in a theoretical approach to comparative politics
This is a great class to take if you are interested in government or just want to get a good introduction to politics. This is not an easy course or enjoyable in terms of the readings. This seems like an amazing course to audit! To take it as a regular class is another story.
Lot of reading.
your chance to attend a highly relevant class taught by a highly capable professor.
It is a great course!
The lectures are fantastic and Professor Levitsky is fantastic!
It is best to do the readings on your own the best you can if possible. Though, A study group is very helpful to fill in the blanks.
If you want to see a Professor who knows how to teach take this class
Fun class and you learn a lot.
If you don't mind the reading or writing papers, but all means...
Hard and energy consuming but definitely worth it in the long term.
Be ready to read because its a lot more reading than you think and it takes longer than it looks like it will take.
Whether you are looking to specialize in Comparative Politics or need a government core class, this is a great way to gain a strong foothold into the world of international governments. Levitsky is amazing, and gets you excited about things you never would have thought interesting before. There are a lot of readings, but if you keep up,you will come out knowing a great deal about each subject.
I would say that Levitsky is great, but be prepared for a lot of dense reading that will eat up most of your homework time. The papers and tests can also be pretty difficult, and some TFs are better than others. TFs play a huge role in the course because it is so large of a class. I learned a lot in this class, and I here from older students that this course is helpful in guiding one's thinking in future government classes.
Don't expect to get an easy A, but it is a very fun, informative class that leaves you with useful information about the world.
The professor is very knowledgeable, and approachable, but take ADVANTAGE of these qualities, instead of just noticing them.  I should have eaten at one of the lunches with him, instead of being intimidated as a first semester freshman about not having any specific questions about the course, but just to listen to him talk and discuss other matters would have been a great experience.  Be ready for a intense reading that spans a LOT of material, which is overwhelming.  Participate a lot in section!
I would definitely recommend taking it, it is a great introduction to comparative politics, contains interesting material and is well taught
The course is excellent for students definitely interested in government. However, be aware that the course is composed mostly of dry academic articles and essays. However, the professor does an excellent job at distilling the information from the articles through lecture.
This is a great class to take as an introductory course to Government, but also out of pure interest for the world around us.
May be a little too intro.
Gov 20 is a really good introductory course, covering diverse geographical areas and subjects. Be aware that is incorporates a lot of theory (thus its name "introduction to theory of politics"). But interesting course overall.
Take it before Levitsky leaves and you're saddled with a boring, whiskered and wheezing professor who doesn't even attempt to spice up his lectures with (bad) jokes or change course material to suit student interests.
If you are interested in political theories and the history of democratization, then this class is for you.
Take notes on the readings--it really does help.
One of the main reasons to take this class is because of Professor Levitsky. His enthusiasm for the subject and charisma in teaching make the information so much more enjoyable. The course also offers a solid background in wordly conflict and problems within nations today, which was extremly practical.
Great intro level course to government with interesting material and great professor.
This class is marvelous!
A non intensive course that covers all the poli sci terms you need.
either decide to do all the readings or none of the readings.  If you read about 10 pages per day, every day, you can do the readings.  But get into a routine and stick with it.
professor levitsky is a great lecturer, the topics are very interesting, the   only drawback is the immense reading requirements
You should be pretty interested in politics to take this course. There is a lot of reading and lot of information to absorb during lecture, so it would only be enjoyable with a previous interest in the subject.
- great course, great lecturer--difficult, but good for freshman because makes you become a better student/makes you adopt better learning strategies
Professor Levitsky is an amazing lecturer deserving of tenure.  And the material covered in this class is extremely relevant to the current state of the world, as are the theories.  I will use a lot of this material again.
It's an entertaining class that covers lots of interesting topics and isn't too difficult. You don't get in-depth information about subjects, but you get a nice overview of everything.
Don't miss the lectures. Even if you do minimal reading (or almost none at all), you can definitely get by if you pay attention in class and take notes.
too MUCH reading
The class is engaging and interesting, but be prepared to work.
One day, I calculated that Harvard students dish out about $2.00 for every minute of lecture. In my mind, Gov20 lectures are worth about $1.98 per minute.
levitsky is a genius. being in his class is not an experience to be missed.
It's a really great broad survey class that gets you interested in a wide field but also exposed to a lot of specific ideas and cases.
A lot of people sign up because they hear Levitsky is amazing (this is true), but that is not enough if you are not interested in the topic.
Don't do all the readings! Definitely start a study group and split up the readings and discuss them. Utilize your resources that are your classmates!
This class is quite ambitious and gives an extremely broad overview of comparative politics. For those who like broad, overview-type classes, then this may be a good class. For those who like classes focused on more specific topics, then I would choose a different class. Future students should also be warned that this class contains copious amounts of reading.
Pay no attention to the obnoxious student across the lecture hall asking a senseless, unimaginative question.
be ready for a lot of material and independent study, but you will certainly learn a great deal if you put in the effort.
Professor Levitsky is the best professor I have had at Harvard (thank heavens he received tenure!!), and I would take this course if just on the basis of being a part of his wonderful instruction and passion for the material.I also think the class covers pertinent issues in contemporary politics that are interesting and engaging.
Levitsky is highly entertaining and teaches the class with enthusiasm and humor.  Lecture moves quickly but is enjoyable: time moves fast.
Do all the readings on schedule, to the best of your ability.
The course is an excellent introduction to comparative politics but it requires a lot of reading.
This class is awesome because Professor Levitsky is awesome. Make sure you form a study group to divide up the readings, or you will be miserable. Sometimes it's actually more effective to watch lectures online as opposed to actually attending lecture. Professor Levitsky has a lot of material to cover in a short period of time, and you can't push pause on him...
Fabulous lectures.  Interesting material.
This is a great overview class not only for systems of government but for thinking about the big picture and realizing that questions of politics, development, and ethnicity are all inter-related and need to be considered in relation to each other as well as separately.
Don't take this class unless you have to for your Government Concentration requirements.
If Professor Levitsky is teaching the course, there are few courses I would recommend more highly.
The professor is amazing!
Levitsky is great, readings are a bit much, overall I would recommend the course.
You absolutely must make sure you are interested in the material and understand what is expected of you (a lot of reading).  Form a study group.
Levitsky is a great lecturer. The readings are excessive but you don't necessarily need to do them all to get by.
Keep up with the reading. Review the material on a regular basis. Prepare an outline so that you can obtain some feedback from your TF before turning in the final draft of the paper.
Don't take it if you have another class that will give a lot of readings as this one will take hours to read. Take a world history class before you take it so that when they refer to real world examples you understand the context of them.
There is a lot of reading, but the class is engaging.
I generally recommend this course, prof. Levitsky is an excellent professor, sections are well-organized (props to George Soroka), but you have to be ready to work hard (a lot of readings).
Take this course just so that you get to listen to Professor Levitsky each week! He's amazing!
This is an excellent intro government course!
The reading load is ridiculous.  Lectures are great, but the work isn't worth it.  You'd be better off auditing it and just going to the lectures without having to do the reading.
This class is punishing because of the amount of reading.  But the readings are really well organized and teach you a lot.  I feel like I really understand some of the major debates in political science today.
There is a lot of reading, but the course material is very interesting, and
Try to get George as the TF if he's still TFing becaus he's great. Also, don't stress out if you can't do all the readings. Skim over each quickly and just focus getting the main ideas. Lastly, go to lecture everyday and don't worry about getting all the details down. Just be sure you know the big picure. And, for the essays, be sure you spend a lot of time brainstorming and coming up with creative ideas-- that's the only way to make your work stellar. Simply doing an excellent job on the literature or reiterating the information will only give you a B.
Levitsky is one of the best lecturers at Harvard.
Don't go into this class thinking that you'll have it easy; there's a whole lot of readings, and you'll also have papers, a midterm, and a final. But in the end, it's SO worth it. Levitsky, hands down, is one of the best lecturers that Harvard has to offer. The materials and selected readings cover not only the basis of political development for the past like, three centuries, but also the different motivations/conditions involved that are vital to how reality played out. After going through the course - and at least doing some, if not all of the readings - you'll have a much better understanding of some nations succeed today, and why others do not. The depth of the content, as well as the breadth, is impressive. If you aren't sure whether you want to concentrate in the government/political field but do have a curiosity for how modern politics work, Gov 20 is for you. After taking it, you're completely free to go in another direction, but you WILL have an incredibly solid foundation for how governments interact with each other and with its own constituents. For those with an interest in anything related to modern events - whether that's the development of China/South Korea/Asian nations, the developmental history of South America, the causes and ramifications of large-scale revolutions, the inner workings of a democratic system, or the differences between the US and European welfare states - I wholeheartedly recommend the course, not just for the purpose of a degree but for a better understanding of the world at large.
Great way to gain a global perspective and learn how to synthesize academic arguments.
You don't necessarily have to do the readings. You should because you'll understand it better, but if you're looking to be lazy, you can get away with it.
This course is extremely interesting because I learned so much about a lot of different countries in the world. I feel like I know a lot about the world now and how different countries operate. The lectures are really interesting and the topics for each unit are different than typical information taught in high school history classes.
Alot of reading, but worth knowing.
This class is great for acquiring a better world view, especially for understanding the causes and consequences of major political issues for those who feel unfamiliar with them to begin with. However, this class is very large and when it comes to individual TFs, the grading can vary greatly. There is little feedback/prep for the midterm and final.
Get into a reading group.
Go to lecture at all costs - even if you haven't done the readings. Volha is an amazing TF, try to get her. Levitsky is awesome. This course will expand what you know about the world.
It's a good course, but the work/reading can be daunting.
Be prepared for alot of reading but there are great rewards from taking this class. It is the best class I have taken so far and I have learned the most from it. Take this class!
This class is very good.
I took Gov 20 as an attempt to become more "worldly" and I feel like accomplished that goal. I definitely could have put in more effort in terms of the readings and if I did I'm sure I would've felt that I fully achieved my goal of being "worldly." But all in all, Gov 20 is a great course with a great professor. Even if you're not a Gov major, I recommend it as a way to become more aware of how the world works. Really good class.
Brilliant class, whether you're concentrating in Gov or not. Levitsky is an engaging and interesting lecturer who makes a sincere effort to connect with the class through lunches, answering questions etc. Tip on dealing with the crazy amount of reading: form a study group, divide up readings, and meet up once a week to talk through the notes you each make.
If you want to read a lot of material, join by all means.
This class is great. You know exactly what you are getting--no suprises, etc. The assignments are fair. It's a really well done course.
lectures were amazing and interesting.
Gov 20 is a good introduction to the questions and ideas of comparative politics. You should do the reading.
This class has left me with a solid understanding of mechanisms behind comparative politics. It has allowed me to look at and study historical events through a comparative lens. I enjoyed the format of the course, looking at several case studies for each main theme. This allowed me to contextualize the theories that were introduced. Definitely allowed me to wrap my head around such theories. You will definitely leave this class with a new critical lens. Levitsky is very passionate and knowledgeable on the topic and was always open to taking questions throughout the lecture. Section itself was a bit of a stretch and participation felt too structured and forced. Nevertheless, it was a phenomenal course that will change the way you look at the world. Definitely one of the highlights of the semester.
If you don't like to read, don't take this class.
Fantastic class. There is a lot of reading but I would definitely recommend completing it all...it makes the midterms and papers much more tolerable
Gov 20 is extremely well-taught and quite helpful when it comes to understanding the global status quo and digesting what goes in various countries that we see in the news.
You don't have to know everything about all the readings, you just have to know a lot about some of the readings. Working with a study group is very helpful.
You should take this class. It does a great job covering an important way of thinking (even if it is not ultimately your chosen way). And Levitsky is an incredible lecturer. He will keep you engaged. He does a great job picking TFs who are invested in their students. Take itttt.
Lots of reading looks daunting but there are key readings that are easy to identify and focus on so you can digest all of the key material without overcommitting to reading every week. And if you really don't want to read you can make it through the course without doing much of it. Lectures are good and I really enjoyed my section.
Take this course! Levitsky is a good lecturer (although he does repeat the readings quite a bit), and you learn so much. Be prepared to do A LOT OF WORK because the readings are brutal, but it's quite rewarding at the end of the semester. Remember that you can (re)watch the lectures online--I downloaded and watched them 1.5-2x speed to save time.
This course definitely makes you a more informed person, and conversations have much more depth. However, if you just want to try out a government related course without really knowing if you like it, I would try a different course. It can be an extremely overwhelming course, with people who sound like they know everything.
Very engaging, interesting course, but lots of reading
Take it!
This is overall a great class, taught by an amazing professor! Steven Levitsky really knows how to lecture and explain the concepts in the class. Readings are tough, don't try to read it all. The papers are very manageable and so is the midterm.
if you don't like to read then don't take this class. with the right TF this class is pretty fun
There are a lot of readings, but don't be intimidated. Try to do at least a few every week. Go to lecture because Professor Levitsky talks about the important authors most of the time.
Professor Levitsky is a very engaging and personable lecturer. Do not be intimidated by the readings since he helps to establish key issues and perspectives in lecture and section is also extremely helpful in clarifying the different authors' arguments. This is a great introductory government course to take.
Take advantage of Professor Levitsky's lunches and office hours to get to know the man. Levitsky is inspirational both inside and outside of the classroom.
Great introductory course to government.
I am a natural science concentrator and I took this class as a Gen-Ed. Grading overall is ok, but the readings each week could be a bit heavy. It is almost impossible to do all the readings on your own, so make sure you ask your TF which ones are more important, and it would also help if you find study buddies that split up the readings with you and create an outline for each passage you read.Start on the papers early. Go talk to your TF and make sure you guys are on the same page about the ideas.Overall this class is ok, but I would recommend it with reservations for those who are looking for SW Gen-Eds. This class is a lot of work, and I did not like the material very much (I guess I appreciate quantitative evidence more than pages and pages of arguments). But this class does offer a pretty good overview about the fundamental theories of politics.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading, but be prepared to also learn an incredible amount. I loved every minute of the course and feel like a much better educated citizen. The class was fun! I recommend to any and all concentrators.
This class is definitely a solid introduction to government (and recent history as well), but beware of the amount of reading!  If you don't mind a lot of reading, then definitely take this class, but know that you will have to be able to synthesize it pretty quickly in order to participate in section.
This is a good class. Don't bother doing all of the readings; just figure out the thesis statement of each author. If you do that, you will have little to no stress and learn a lot about the world.
Pretty good, but a lot of readings.
This class is wonderful. There may be a lot of reading but do not let that intimidate you. Take this class.
This is a fantastic course.  Levitsky is a fantastically engaging lecturer.  There is a lot of reading, but it's definitely worth it.
Take this class. Levitsky is AMAZING. The readings are relevant and interesting; I don't know why others complain about the amount of reading in this course -- it's completely manageable and never a waste of time.
Gov 20 is a really good intro gov class that will help you understand what's going on around the world....
Levitsky is definitely one of the best professors at Harvard. He is an amazing lecturer and a great person to talk with. The readings are a lot, make sure you know that. You should be a very good/fast reader or definitely form a study group and take good notes.
An eyeopening and thought provoking class that lets you understand the world from a completely lens. Strongly recommended for anyone interested in current affairs.
Professor Levitsky is a great lecturer and puts in a lot of effort to make his lectures enjoyable. I was extremely lucky to have Evann as a TF. I have to be honest: we are on complete opposite sides of the political aisle, and I was really not expecting to enjoy this class as much as I did. Evann made every section extremely interesting, moving beyond the simple facts of each reading to generate great discussions. Even more, Evann made sure every student had an equal opportunity to speak. Section with Evann was my favorite class this year. Although she seems to be a harder grader than other TFs, it is well worth it because her comments are very constructive. Evann really pushes you to think and dive deeper into the material. After attending review sessions held by some of the other TFs, I realized how lucky I was to have Evann as my TF.
If you have any interest in geography, history, foreign politics, or international relations, you should definitely take this course. Do not take it as a general education requirement if you have no interests in these fields, because it requires a lot of work. The reading is heavy, but most of it is honestly really interesting.
Lectures are great. I had a horrible section (literally was the worst hour of my week) so I think that really colored my experience with the class.
Despite what some people might say - this is NOT a difficult course. The course assigns an unreasonable amount of reading, but if you split up the readings amongst a study group, you can benefit from the readings without having to put a huge amount of time in. Go to lecture, take good notes, and summarize the material or make study guides before the exams, and you'll do fine. This is a great introductory course - Levitsky is an engaging lecturer, and really seems to care about the class. If you are at all interested in comparative politics - take this course. The material is interesting, fairly easy to grasp, and a useful basis for understanding international governance.
This class is amazing. Levitsky is a fabulous lecturer, which makes the class even more exciting. While some people find the reading hard, it is manageable, you will just need to learn how to skim or make a study group. I would highly recommend this class to everyone!
Levitsky's great, the material is fascinating, but managing the reading volume is an important skill that must be learned, too.
If you are at all interested in taking a gov class, take this one. Levitsky is awesome.
Enjoyable class with engaging lectures, interesting readings and an accessible professor. The course ties together quite beautifully.
This is one of the best classes you can take if you're interested in a broad introduction to the government department and to college level political science. Professor Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer and he generates a lot of interest in the material. The readings can build up and seem like a lot, but they are very manageable. If you have any interest at all in studying government, this is a must-take.
This is a broad comparative course on the basic debates in government. Before taking this course, make sure that you actually want to take a such a course. Let me explain. This course focuses on many different issues such as economic development and democratization, but as a government course, its explanations of these phenomena focus far more on government than on other important factors such as society. As a self-declared intro to the major topics (note the plural) in comparative politics, it chooses to broadly survey many theories on many subjects rather than study any single theory or subject in depth, and it is much more focused on explaining different theories about various topics and giving a few case studies than it is about examining which theories hold up. As a comparative politics course, it looks for solutions to major theoretical debates by comparing situations that may or may not actually be similar. None of this is bad; in fact, the course is exactly what it says it is. My point is, though, don't go into this course hoping it will have any additional focuses other than those articulated in the name and course description - it doesn't.
There is a lot of reading.
Do the readings. I know that the sheer volume of material is intimidating at first, but the readings are certainly doable. Plan out your week with the readings in mind; don't try to do all of the readings the day before your section, or you'll never get much out of them.
Amazing lectures! Lots of reading, but interesting and relevant material. You get as much as you put into the course, though, and don't fall behind on reading! Also don't hesitate to schedule a meeting during office hours with Levitsky. Really nice guy, and genuinely cares about his students.
Lots of reading
if you're not willing to take on the coursework, don't take this class.
This class is reading intensive. If you don't like doing a lot of reading then this class may not be for you.
While this is a great course and very stimulating, it requires a heavy amount of reading that you must be prepared to take on to actively participate in the class.
Be prepared to cover a lot of material each week. It is extremely helpful but not necessary to form reading groups to help get through readings. Lecture environment can be stressful (furiously typing) but it is extremely helpful and Levitsky makes it all seem interesting.
In just one semester, Professor Levitsky manages to cover all the major theories that explainmajor political outcomes in the world. Professor Levistsky is hands down one of the best lecturers in the university.
Don't be intimidated by the readings!
Highly recommend this course. It really provides an excellent foundational knowledge base in comparative politics. I'm a non-concentrator that just has an interest in politics and found it absolutely fascinating. The organization is excellent and there's a great balance between theory and case studies so that the content always feels applicable.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading and make sure you join a study group! This is a great into class and Levitsky is a terrific professor who lectures very well, it is an excellent class to take freshman fall- it is not too tough, it introduces you to heavier reading than you may have done in high school, and it is an excellent talking point for Annenberg conversations
There is quite a bit of reading in this class, but don't let that discourage you! The material is fascinating and lectured on very well by Professor Levitsky. The class offers a wide range of perspectives on government and political systems from all around the world. If anything, the class may be a bit democracy heavy. The workload is challenging but never unmanageable.
This is an excellent class for those who want to explore comparative politics even without any prior knowledge in the field. I'm not sure if it will be a clear reflection of the government concentration in general just because this specific professor and class is so great, but it is definitely a class worth taking for students concentrating in any field.
Tons of reading but doable if you ration it properly
There is a LOT of reading. Get a study group. Also, the midterm is really long so learn to pace yourself. Levitsky is an incredible lecturer. Don't miss the opportunity to eat lunch with him or visit his office hours. You won't regret it.
Very good professor, very interesting lectures. However, there are a lot of reading. You don't have to read them all to succeed in the class. Form a study group and split the reading! DO NOT miss a lecture! Although every lecture is videotaped, you rarely find time afterward to watch the video! Also for the essay assignments, meet with you TF to discuss your ideas and outline!
While there is a lot of reading in this class I can say I learned a lot. Professor Levitsky is someone who can effectively lecture and you gain a lot from what he has to say. I do not have many if any bad things to say about this class.
This class provides a very basic overview of major themes throughout comparative politics. If you are not at all familiar with the history of various parts of the world or current events, this is the class for you. But, if you are generally a well-read person with basic knowledge of world events, this may not be the best fit for you. Essays (2) are pretty straight forward and the midterm and final are easy. Section TFs are really good and helpful!
This is a great class -- it truly is an introduction to comparative politics. Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and makes each week a memorable experience. Definitely take use of his office hours and your TF's office hours.
Professor Levitsky is one of the best lecturers at Harvard. His lectures are the strongest part of the course and you should definitely wake up and go to them. This class is really great at giving you background information about important global events and even better at giving you useful information. Seriously, half the stuff you learn in this class makes for exciting dinner conversations and there are some really cool theories. There is a lot of reading but to be honest, I didn't really do much and you can get by on lectures and section(if you have a great TF who summarizes theories for you. Thanks Brad!)
It requires a lot of reading, but if you're willing to put in the hours to study for the midterm and the final you'll do well.
I definitely feel that Gov 20 helped me to better understand the way governmental systems work, as well as much of modern history and situations currently going on around the world. In order to get the most out of this class though, be prepared to spend a significant amount of time reading.
This class was fantastic! Professor was great and, with a study group, the amount of reading is very minimal. You could never read and get through the class, but the readings are interesting.
This is a great class, especially if you want to know more about how historical events come to occur. You will understand the true nature of events going on around the world.
This is an intro course.
It's a great introductory course and fairly easy as long as you are diligent about reading and know what to focus on.
This is the best lecture based class I have taken at Harvard. Really, Take it.
Don't do all the reading. Readings aren't necessary for section, and for papers you can go back to relevant readings and pull quotes. But DO go to lecture. And get in a study group to manage the reading.
A lot of work, but worth it in the end. Covers things that every Harvard student should know
This class has a lot of readings.  Getting a good TF can make or break your experience and grade in the course.  Levitsky is good, but he speaks pretty quickly so good luck trying to take detailed notes during lectures.  Some TFs grade harder than others, and some TFs know the material and others obviously don't.  Good luck.
If you're good about it you can do this class without most of the reading which are dry and just drawn out. Go to section pay attention and doo your work and you will learn a lot. Prof Levitsky is an amazing lecturer too!
Lots of boring readings, section discussions less than sophisticated.
The class has a lot of readings, so find a group to split readings with. Everything is very doable otherwise, and you'll learn a lot about a lot.
Take Gov 20! It is a fascinating course and a great crash-course into whether you want to study government. Also even though it's a predominantly freshman class, don't have any reservations taking it as a sophomore. You'll be even better prepared than the freshmen. Also: Levitsky is the man, and despite it being a 10am class, you will stay awake through his fascinating lectures.
This course is amazing. Levitsky is such a good lecturer and always engaging. There is definitely a lot of reading, but it all covers interesting materials and you do not have to necessarily do all of the readings to do well in the course. I went into it never having taken a government course before, and it was a great introduction to comparative politics.
It is an interesting class but there is a ton of reading. You can get away with not doing it but I wouldn't suggest it.
This class was a life changing experience for me, It opened my mind to amazing ideas about politics,  the way the world works and how we got to the current state that the world is in now.
Lectures are very interesting but the readings really aren't. However, the lectures are so interesting that I would definitely still recommend this course.
Great class. Definitely take it, especially if you are considering anything in the social sciences. There is a great deal of reading, so make sure to form a study group to split them up.
This course is infamous for the amount of reading that it has. However, if you join a study group, then it is quite manageable. Make sure that your study group is willing to do the work, and you can still do very well in the course. The material is fascinating, and the discussions in section help to shape you into a better thinker. If you are considering a government concentration, then this a great thing to try.
The lectures will probably be some of the best you might experience so you should definitely take this course! While the lectures are great, the readings are long, so start a study group from day one. Divide the readings and create detailed summaries that you can share with those in your group; you only need the key points for essays and for exams. This is one of the best courses I've taken so far!
The reading is not to be underestimated. There are people who did fine without reading all of it, but it was also perfectly possible to do all of it if you knew how to skim read effectively. What you learn from notes taken by other students in study groups is not the same as what you learn from actually doing the readings, and I would strongly recommend that you do the latter to get the most out of the course. It becomes easy to fall behind on reading completely after a midterm or a paper. If you are going to form a study group, form it with people who are just as committed as you are to the course, and form it with people you know well because it will be easier to hold people accountable, otherwise study groups tend to fall apart after the midterm. All of that being said, the course is VERY well run and all of the TFs are very qualified to run section. Levitsky is a great lecturer and though those are always available online, I strongly encourage everyone taking this course to actually go to lecture! Overall, a really good gateway course for government.
This class is amazing. Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and my TF was wonderful! The reading is a lot but manageable. This class is a bit of a learning curve - the first few weeks are hard but once you learn how to take notes in lecture you will start to really love this class. This class has taught me to look at the world in a completely different way. TAKE THIS CLASS
Gov 20 is one of my favorite classes from this semester. Prof. Levitsky is an incredibly engaging lecturer and the material is really valuable in understanding how societies around the world were formed. While the reading is notoriously overwhelming, at the end of the day you can split it with others/power through it and still be thoroughly happy you took the course. It's not easy, but it's worth it!
If you are willing to do the reading, this class is awesome. It teaches you to think, read, and write at the college level in a manageable, helpful way without killing you. Professor Levitsky is incredibly, and the topics covered pertain to everyone's life. Even if someone has no interest in Gov., I would highly suggest it.
Great class, interesting material, but a ton of reading.  The lectures are amazing!
There's a lot of reading, but it's all really high quality and worth pushing through. (And if there are readings that aren't so necessary, your TF will tell you so.) Overall it's a fantastic class and Levitsky is an amazing lecturer; definitely take it!
You might think you don't, but trust me, you do want to take this course.
Get a reading group and study with friends. Talking out the theories is the most beneficial way of studying for this class.
in another 3000 years of civilization, once there are enough cases to allow us to prove any kind of causation, this course could be interesting. until that time, take a philosophy class like 1060 or 1061. i promise that most of these scholars you read in gov 20 can't tell you anything that machiavelli or aristotle didn't already prove centuries earlier
I would tell future students that the readings are dense and take a very long time to complete. In order to succeed in this class, it is necessary to do all of the readings but also to read them as efficiently as possible. Otherwise, the course consumes too much time and much of the information is not necessary important.
This is a great class! Just make sure you can devote the time to do the readings.
This is a fascinating class. It really forced me to think about the world in a different way, and the concepts it covers are great. Levitsky is absolutely wonderful, and the reading load honestly isn't as bad as everybody says it is. However, I did find this course quite difficult. It covers a tremendous amount of material, and it definitely took a breadth over depth approach to what was taught. I'd recommend it, but be prepared to work hard.
Be ready to read.... and read a lot, but about very interesting material.
There really is as much reading as you've heard there is, but you don't do it all -- the trick is figuring out what to read. Levitsky's lectures are godsent, and I'd advise doing the readings after lecture -- his clarification of the subject matter will act as a roadmap for what is important within the ridiculous amounts of reading. The topics the course covers are fascinating, and there's never a time when you feel as if you have wasted an hour in class learning something you will never use.
This class has an amazing professor, mostly good TFs, and a huge amount of reading. Definitely form a reading group with people who also will do their parts of reading and it will help you a lot. The outlines from reading groups come in handy in preparation for the midterm and final exam later. But it's quite an interesting introductory course to the material, so take it if it sounds interesting!
This class is a lot of work but it covers so much material in an interesting way. I feel so much more informed about the world so I would definitely recommend.
I'm a CS concentrator and took this class on a whim. This class is very accessible to non-Gov concentrators. All I have to say is - Take it! It'll honestly give you so much more perspective on history, current news, and every theory in between.
The class is interesting, the professor is amazing because he is engaging in his lectures, the sections are very helpful
I learned a lot in this course and enjoyed attending Levitsky's lectures. However, before choosing to take this class students should be aware that the workload is pretty heavy and might want to choose easier classes in accompaniment if they want to get more out of this course.
You should be ready to do a fair amount of reading, but it's absolutely worth it. Not only is the material interesting, it's also highly relevant to other courses in history, government, or economics.
An interesting course that challenges one to examine cases critically and come up with your own ideas based on past cases and theories. The reading is very challenging but manageable and interesting.
Professor Levitsky is one of the best lecturers at Harvard. I would highly recommend taking this class if you have any interest at all in government. The class does have a lot of reading, so be prepared for that, but it is all very worthwhile!
Take this course, especially if you're debating whether to concentrate in government. You won't regret it-- it's a great introduction to comparative politics, and because of the number of freshmen enrolled in the course, you can really lean on your friends and study groups as a freshman. Take it!
A lot of reading and material. Great lectures.
If you want to become a better-informed citizen and improve academically, take this course.
As an applied math concentrator, I got a little frustrated with some of the readings and claims made in the readings and in section. It is worthwhile to learn about different regimes, institutions, and policies around the world. Definitely a lot of reading. Don't bother reading all of them. For most, it is sufficient to read just the intro and conclusion.
This is an incredible introductory class, but be prepared to do a lot of reading and absorb a ton of material.
Be prepared to read, read, read if you really want to understand the material well.
Lecture is great, but section can be painful depending on your TF and the students in your section. Also, if you want to succeed in this course, form a study group.  It does not need to be difficult, but it may be a little overwhelming if you have to do all of the reading and note-taking on your own, especially if you are taking other challenging classes.
Section was terrible in this class, but you will learn enough from lecture to make it worth taking.
Gov 20 is fine if you have taken another gov class before; it's like any intro gov class (heavy on readings, but not difficult to understand). If you have a good study group, it's not a difficult class.
This is an awesome introduction to the study of Political Science. Levitsky is a very charismatic and intellectual lecturer, and the course materials are generally quite intriguing. The TFs are also willing to help whenever you're going through bumps
It's a lot of reading, but lecture is actually interesting as in section. A must take Harvard course.
This is an excellent course. Work smart and not hard and there will be no problems. Make sure you go to lecture on a regular basis and you will be able to understand the readings a lot better.
Be prepared to learn about history and issues that will generally make you a more enlightened person and engaged global citizen
Gov 20 is a must-take. You learn a crazy amount about the world and the way the world works in a single semester. The readings are dense, but the tests are broad and you are not expected to have memorized every single nuance of the different authors' arguments.
If you aren't really interested in government, you will get bored rather quickly. This course is a good survey class, but it has a lot of readings.
Gov 20 is a fantastic class. It's a broad survey of comparative politics that introduces you to all of the most important readings and thinkers in every respective topic. After taking the course, you will never see politics in the same light again--in a good way. Expect to take a much more comparative approach to how you analyze development, ethnic conflict, state security, etc. Levitsky is a phenomenal lecturer, and some TF's are great. Also, there is a lot of reading, but it's okay as long as you know how to skim intelligently. Also, it's a great way to bond with people during freshman fall.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading.
Don't get overwhelmed if this is your first class of this caliber. It's a good entry level class.
The readings are very long and often dull. If you do take the course, go to every lecture. Lecture is the best and most interesting part of the course.
Lectures are awesome.  Go to them.  Fight through some of the readings even though they can be pretty dense and lengthy.
Lots of work--readings
Do all the readings, but in groups, not by yourself
Great class, helps your overall understanding of the world.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading, but all of it will be interesting and relevant. You'll only get something out of the course if you do the readings!
Yes! Take it. There is a ton of readings but it is totally worth it. You can probably get away with summaries of readings found online but I would suggest reading some of them in-depth. It will benefit you when it comes to writing the paper and also give you a better understanding of government.
Interesting lectures, but there is a lot of reading.  You can get by on exams without much of the reading, but if you want to understand the material well, you'll need to schedule in a lot of time to read.
There's A LOT of reading, and it's basically impossible to do it all. But you do learn a lot from lecture and section. A lot depends on the TF and section you're in too.
If you're interested in government and are interested in international relations, this is a fantastic way to dip your feet in the water. If you are already knowledgable, there is still a lot of fun to be had in the class and a lot to learn - the ideas seem rather obvious after you've learnt them, but put together or reflecting back, it's brilliant. Great intro to political science, highly recommended as a foundation course for both those interested in domestic issues and international issues, and much better than Gov 10.
It's a really good class, but there's a lot of reading, and it's nearly impossible to do all of it.
I too, like many at Harvard, fell into the Levitsky Trap. Was told the man is a god and it is worth taking his class. Friendly advice: first, stop listening to people and the stuff they try to sell you; second, Levitsky can be a bit boring, albeit a great lecturer; third, if you're not a freshman don't so this to yourself. You will be part of a minority of upperclassmen who wanna check stuff out before graduating and be surrounded by very eager goody two shoes freshmen who do their readings and still have a soul. You will either turn depressed or violent in their presence. TFs are great and they hold it together with the review sessions and great office hours. You will end up sleeping though your class and watching the videos at the end of the semester before the final. And you will then curse your methods. Even in that time of dire need have some dignity and avoid the tempting freshman study guides.
1. Absolutely go to lecture, Professor Levitsky  is amazing, 2. Absolutely get into a reading group so you can split up the work; as the semester goes on, you'll realize that it's unrealistic to do all of the readings on your own, 3. When you do the readings, make sure you connect the ideas with the authors-- this is a key part of the class, and 4. Go to office hours-- with your TF, with Professor Levitsky, with the writing fellow-- I did not take advantage of it enough, but they are all super-approachable and incredibly helpful! If you have no experience in comparative politics or politics in general, DO NOT WORRY-- this is an intro class, and you will have a blast as you acquire a great foundation.  I might actually be in shock as to how much I have learned from this class.  TAKE IT!!!
Be prepared to do a lot of reading, but don't be intimidated by it. As long as you can identify authors and describe hypothetical dialogues between them, you'll be fine.
This course is a great introduction both to comparative politics and to political analysis and thought in general. The readings cover the crux of all the most important arguments regarding many different cases, and the lectures are engaging. If you're not too big on reading, though, I would advise taking another course; although it's possible to get through Gov20 without doing all of the readings, experiencing the course fully does sort of include them.
-The best lectures I've ever heard!-Great, engaging material-A wide scope that covered lots and gave me a better understanding of the state of the world-You will not get hand-held: you don't get tons of feedback which is too bad.Overall, a great course.
Do all of the readings!
I took this class as my final requirement for the Gov department. My advice? Don't take it as an upperclassman. They treat you like a high school student, assign way too much busywork, and grade according to a ridiculous rubric. Save yourself the effort and pick another comparative class.
This class is a ton of work! Lectures are good but the other aspects of the course, namely section and homework, were really rough.
You will read a ton, but it is totally worth it. Form study groups, but try to read all the material because it is interesting and applicable outside the course.
Professor Levitsky is by far the best professor I've had to date at Harvard. He has open office hours where you can come talk to him about anything--freshman year, family, education, essay ideas. Utilize them. Beyond these, he gives captivating lectures that break down complicated topics into their core components. His lectures also help pick out the main points in the readings. However, make sure to invest time into going to lecture and doing the readings. You'll be more prepared for section, and you'll have an easier time writing papers and taking the midterms. I 100% recommend this class if you're interested in Comparative Politics. The professor and TF components are both fantastic.
Gov20 is a class that is equal parts frustrating and fascinating. What frustrated me wasn't the readings (get in on a study group, do as many of the readings as you can and go to lecture-- you should be fine), but the seeming lack of predictive power of the theories. That said, I would earnestly recommend this class because it really does teach you so much about so many parts of the world, introduces you to a whole bunch of political theories and forces you to think about what makes events, trends and changes.
I feel so much smarter after taking this class. Levitsky teaches every lecture and covers so much material. In section, I applied what we learned to current events and other topics. It's the best course I've taken so far at Harvard. Levitsky is an amazing lecturer! He makes lecture fun and interesting. Even though the class is really big, he does weekly lunches with a small group of students so he gets to know a lot of them. Definitely take this class! You will learn so much about the main theories covering topics like industrialization, democratization, ethnic violence, state building, etc. You also learn a lot about case studies.
There is a lot of very dense reading, so you should be ready for a pretty decent-sized workload.  However, it's more than worth the work, as the material covered will be very interesting to anyone with an interest in world events or politics.
Great class, a lot of reading
This is an incredible introductory class. Although there is a lot of material, the material is extremely interesting and useful. Professor Levitsky is one of the best professors I've ever had. He is so passionate about the class and he genuinely cares about his students. I really appreciated that he made an effort to get to know us and that he put in so much time and effort to making lectures so interesting and engaging.
For those looking to take their first government course, take this one. Levitsky is a great professor, and the material is interesting and relevant. Watch out for the insane amount of reading, but you don't have to read ALL of it, just read for the argument, and read appropriately for essay prompts. Also, consider a study group. All in all, a great intro gov class with Levitsky.
It is hard, but if you keep up with the reading, it will be no problem.
Take this class!  Lectures are interesting and engaging, and if you are willing to do the work, the class is very rewarding.  The key to success in Gov 20 is definitely office hours though.  Utilize the TFs and Professor Levitsky well--they can help a lot on essays and preparing for exams.
This is a great intro-course to take if you're interested in gov. The topics are all very broad and it is a little sad you can't go too in depth in many of them, but overall it changed the way I view politics around the world. The readings may seem daunting, but you really don't have to do them all to do well on the papers and tests.
I would tell students that Professor Levitsky's lectures are incredible because he is a great speaker and is also very knowledgable about the subject matter.
The class is not easy, and I would only recommend to people genuinely interested in government
This is an excellent survey course. If you've never taken a Gov class, this is the way to do it. Material is interesting and includes several case studies which make you feel much more knowledgable about historical happenings around the globe. The assignments are all manageable and if you study, the midterm and final are easy. This class was awesome and Levitsky was probably one of the best lecturers I've ever listened to.
Take this course if you want a sense of what government courses are like/how the world works. It's a great introduction to many different ideas about how we reach political outcomes. Prof. Levitsky is great!
This is a great introduction to the government department at Harvard. Levitsky is amazing and passionate, and his lectures sometimes can leave you speechless. There is a lot of reading, but if you use strategies of speed-reading and effective note-taking you will find that it's really totally manageable.
Take this class because it's going to give you an introduction to comparative politics so that you at least have some idea of what's going on in governments around the world. Do the readings, or don't. Either way, try to get the ideas out of the lectures, ruminate on them, and have something intelligible to say during section.
Gov 20 is a great introduction to comparative politics. There are large amounts of reading each week but they are manageable if broken up. Professor Levitsky and the TFs put a lot of effort into the course and are passionate about the subject.
Great class. Goes through a lot of very interesting concepts about government and politics. If you are a good writer and experienced with all-nighters, you can get an A/A- with very little work.
This is a great intro to government class. Levitsky is the man. You'll be hard pressed to find better lectures. You can't not pay attention which is more than I can say for any of my other lecture courses. This course provides you with the framework for thinking about all other gov classes (and in my opinion, for other classes here as well).
I consider myself a science kid. With that in mind, I decided on a whim to enroll in Gov 20. It was the best decision I made at Harvard. It engages you and pulls your interest into the Government department even further.
Don't let people's negative thoughts on the amount of read scare you. (You don't have to do it all! Get a study group) Take this class! Whether you plan on studying government or not, this class teaches you so much about the world. I feel a hundred times more informed. Professor Levisky is an awesome lecturer. I have no regrets about this class and highly recommend it.
Don't use this course just to fill a gen-ed, but it is worthwhile in the case of sampling what the Gov department has to offer. Levitsky is a great lecturer, so make sure you go! Forming a study group was helpful in comprehending all of the readings and preparing for exams.
Expect alot of reading.
If you're interested in world affairs, Gov20 is an amazing class. You cover a broad range of topics from how democracy develops to why social revolutions occur. The reading is very interesting and Professor Levitsky is an incredible lecturer. The only downside to this class is that there is so much reading that sometimes it's hard to keep up. It's a rigorous course that requires a lot of time and effort to understand and remember concepts.
Gov 20 is definitely worth taking. Levitsky's an amazing teacher, and you'll leave the class knowing a lot more about the world than you would have expected to.
This is a great course if you have time to actually do/scan the readings. Personally, I struggled taking this course while taking a challenging schedule and was unable to really appreciate the course. If you're passionate about learning about world governments, and you have time to actively engage in the material you should definitely take the course.
not easy, but pretty interesting
This is a perfect class for anyone who has never taken any non-Western courses before.  Previously my knowledge only extended to the Americas, but now I feel I know major 20th century developments in Asia, Africa, and Europe.  The course definitely requires you to think critically about how you want to do the readings and study, as many people like to divide and conquer with a group.  Not very hard, provided you show up to lecture and are a good writer and reader.
DISCUSS, DISCUSS, DISCUSS! It is a sure way to internalize the large amounts of information you will be receiving.
if you want to learn about politics and governments this class lays a very solid foundation if you buy into it.
Simple: take this course.
Prof. Levitsky is one of the best lecturers I have ever met in my life. You will learn so much from him, but only if you GO TO LECTURES. Readings can get a bit dense and tedious but you will get more out of the course if you do them. The essay assignments can be difficult at times depending on the prompts. TAKE THIS CLASS. It will be one of the highlights of your time at Harvard.
Learn to skim readings for the main idea, and you will love this class! A very good introduction to comparative government. Study groups form quickly, and are helpful but not necessary. This is a big class, but it's bound to have a few friends in it, and Levitsky is one of the most approachable profs on campus.
It's a great class, just be prepared to keep up with tons of reading.
this class is amazing. it is a lot of reading, which is occasionally difficult to stay on top of, but the material is engaging and really interesting. Levitsky is incredible -- his lectures are funny, serious, and everything in between. he really likes teaching, and it shows in his lectures. he's very supportive as a professor and i would definitely recommend this course to anyone.
There is a lot of reading but it is definitely worth it, especially if you plan on concentrating in something related to government. It gives a great foundation in comparative politics and put many world events, past and present into a new perspective.
This was really a phenomenal class; I wish everyone with any interest in world affairs could have access to it. If you put the work in, you will get so much from this class. The reading load is immense, yes. Suggestion: form a reading group right away, split up the readings every week, and have everyone make an outline of their reading, and then meet and share them. This is an easy way to not get overwhelmed with reading, and the outlines are a great resource to refer back to when you write the two midterm papers required fro the course.Also, I know the lectures are videotaped, so it's tempting to just skip it, but seriously, go to them - Levitsky is an amazing lecturer, the best I've experienced at Harvard, and there's just something about the energy in the room when he's at the podium.
This is a class that gets people excited about democracy and orients them in the world.  Take it.  Go to lectures.  Do the readings when you can.  I never made it though all of them, but in general they are really interesting.
Great lectures, great professor, but far too many readings. I'd say I would've learned more, had they tried to teach me less. However, you can still get an A in this class with doing only a fraction of them, skimming a bit more, and disregarding about half of them, because the class is built on a lot of memorization and regrettably little analysis - you can definitely learn a lot, but it's just not required of you.
When you buy the source packs for this course, it can seem a little daunting. But this class is truly the best class to take freshman fall, because it teaches you how to deal with classes that have a heavy amount of reading. I read a little less than 20% of the readings for this course and still received a very high grade. You will take away invaluable lessons about how the world works and what fundamental issues you need to attack if you want to help it improve. Highly highly recommended!
This is one of the staple classes of your time at Harvard. Take it and have no regrets. You don't have to do all the readings. Don't even try or you won't sleep.
You do not have to do all the reading, but you should at least read the abstracts of every article, introductions, bolded headings, and the conclusions. That way you at least know what is going on in section. Once you get to the essays, then you will need to read through the specific sources that you want to site.
Gov 20 is a lot of reading, and in general the workload is high, but it is an amazing class. The readings are great, Levitsky is an engaging and energetic lecturer, and the material is extremely interesting and good to know. If you're interested in government, politics, or just how the world works, I would highly recommend taking this class.
No matter how good of a reader you think you are, get a reading group.  It will make the class so much more doable.
Does this class have a lot of reading? Yes. But is Levitsky an amazing lecturer and is the reading interesting and worth your time? Yes and yes.This class is a must take for anyone interested in knowing more about the world we live in. Although it does dramatically favor breadth over depth, that should be expected when you cover all of comparative political theory in a semester.
Professor Levitsky is one of the best lecturers here. He is engaging and informative. Section is also great because you get to have discussions with your classmates and the TF's know their stuff so they are a good resource.
A great course!! One of the best I've ever taken!
I ABSOLUTELY LOVED THIS COURSE. Levitsky is amazing! His lectures are informative, interesting, and funny. This course changed the way I think and helped me grow as a learner. TAKE THIS COURSE! You won't regret it!
TAKE THIS COURSE.  Levitsky is Gods gift to mankind,and the course is not only interesting and educational, but also fascinating and enjoyable.  Most of you will find that there is more reading than you are willing/able to do, but as long as you get the gist of each reading you'll be fine.
The class was so interesting, and I always looked forward to lectures. Be prepared to spend alot of time on readings.
Best government class at harvard! Levitsky is an amazing lecturer!
Keep up with the reading.
A lot of reading, but Levitsky is such a FANTASTIC lecturer the reading it more than worth it. I highly recommend this class.
I LOVED THIS CLASS! YOU REALLY OUGHT TO TAKE IT! It is by far the best class I have taken at Harvard. Levitsky is an amazing, amazing lecturer and a great guy. The topics covered in the course are engaging and relevant to contemporary events, in more ways than I could begin to enumerate. This class deepened my understanding of the world and convinced me to take more classes on comparative politics. And yeah, it's a lot of reading, but I did about 20% of the reading and still got A's and A-'s on the papers and midterm.
This course is great for a gen-ed. You learn a lot and can get a good grade with minimal time commitment. Make sure you get in a study group ASAP. That way, you can split up the readings since it is impossible to do them all yourself. Once you accept that fact, the course becomes infinitely better and you can enjoy the material you are learning!
You don't have to do all the reading! The lecture really summarizes the readings, so if you take good notes you can get away with either skimming, or not at all doing the readings.
Future students should be forewarned that there is a lot of dense reading to get through.  Everything is completely worth it, but you should be aware that the course is heavy in theory.
The course is excellent and the only turnoff is that there is a high volume of reading.
Professor Levitsky is a phenomenal instructor, and despite the workload, I would recommend this class without reserve.
Definitely take the class, but be prepared for a lot of reading! It's really helpful to form a good study group!!
This class gives a great overview of comparative politics, covering a wide range of subjects and engaging authors and their theories with each other.
This class is awesome. You learn a lot about not just comparative politics, but way you see things. You will definitely be able to talk intelligently about everyday affairs after this class. Be warned though: there are a lot of readings. You can get by through skimming, but when it comes to essay time, it will definitely come get you. Also, the professor seems to assign the assignments at the worst possible dates as possible.
If you are at all interested in gov, social studies, or anything else in the social sciences, take this course. Levitsky is a phenomenal lecturer who will make you excited to go to class, which is saying something when it is 9:30 am and you'd rather sleep. Everyone stresses over the readings. There are a ton. If you can make a study group from the beginning, do it. There is no need to do every reading yourself, notes from a friend and section will more than prepare you for the exam. Levitsky started the course saying if you want to change the world, you have to understand it. This course will help you with the latter, and likely inspire you to work on the first.
Although this class has a reputation for having a lot of reading, it's really manageable if you pace yourself well and stick to the big ideas of the course.
This class is a really great intro class. The work is very do-able. The material is also super interesting and applicable. Levitsky is an amazing and very knowledgable lecturer. Essays and tests are graded very fairly.  This is probably the intro class I have gotten the most out of.
This is an amazing class- you both get to learn theory and study country-specific cases. I consider it a must-take for anyone interested in political science (or social sciences in general).
This class was interesting and gave me a good general understanding of basic theories of comparative politics. Levitsky is a great professor, and his lectures are always engaging. The assignments are not difficult (though the class does come with a lot of reading) but they can be dull and often frustrating in their tendency to just ask for regurgitation of information. That said, the class doesn't require a lot of work, the material is important, and the lectures are good, so I would recommend it, especially for a gen ed or for someone interested in gaining a basic knowledge of the world.
Amazing course. Rather than being a gov class, this really is a class about how the world works and how we can interpret it. Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer, the course structure is fantastic, and for the most part, the readings are very interesting. Definitely changed my outlook on what I will study at Harvard. Despite the apparently heavy workload, grading and exams are not that difficult (depending on your TF). Highly, highly recommend taking this class to anyone who wants a really practical and interesting introduction to the social sciences.
The readings are lengthy and dense. Plan ahead.
You will not regret taking this course! It's informative and possibly one of the best courses I took here. Levitsky is phenomenal and an absolute genius in the field.
This was my favorite class of the semester.  The lectures were great, and we learned an incredible amount of material.  I would definitely recommend this class.
The lectures are phenomenal -- Professor Levitsky manages to be funny and engaging while covering a truly tremendous amount of material. That said, it is a tremendous amount of material that is covered each week, particularly in conjunction with the mountains of reading. I know of a few people who were able to go through all of the reading by themselves, but for mere mortals, it would be a good idea to divide them up in a study group and/or get very good at reading quickly and condensing well. The essay prompts and exam questions were all very reasonable, so it's just a matter of being able to keep track of all of the topics and all of the authors. Note that while this course is very well organized and gives you a good overview of the themes (e.g. economic development, ethnic conflict) it is in the end an introduction course and thus can't give you more than a cursory glance at the most important theorists and theories for each -- expect this course to improve your awareness of government and comparative politics dramatically, but leave you with a lot of questions.
If you take this class, I recommend that you brace yourself for the deluge of reading that will inevitably accost you. Aside from that, my entire experience in this course was absolutely wonderful.
To be perfectly honest, I did none of the readings and still got A's on the papers and exams. So, take what other people are saying about how many readings there are with a grain of salt. Yes, you definitely get more out of the class if you do the readings or even join and group and do summaries of the readings, but it is totally doable to not do any readings at all and still get an A.Levitsky is an awesome lecturer--go to lecture, do not skip it. Yes, it is filmed, but if you don't have the time to go to lecture you DEFINITELY don't have the time to make up watching lectures. Trust me.
This class does have an extensive amount of reading, but its manageable if you work with other people and also don't read word by word; looking over the essays for meaning rather than focusing on each and every specific example and case study will help. Other than that, you will learn a lot about societies around the world and how mankind relates and differs in a variety of cultures.
Take the Reading Course from the BSC in order to cope with the readings.
There is a large amount of reading in this course, which can, at times, make it somewhat overwhelming. If you work with your classmates, however, it is much less arduous. Really a rewarding course and a great way to test your interest in political science/government!
this is a VERY broad survey course, with an inordinate amount of reading that is simply impossible to get through if you want any hope of having a life outside of this class. case in point - I completely gave up on doing the readings about halfway through, because even being in a study group where we split the texts up, the readings were just taking a stupidly large chunk out of my semester. I was also very dissapointed with the class format. This class attempts to cover too many topics in too short a period, so you feel like you never retain or absorb any information because you spend so little time on each topic. Professor Levitsky is a good lecturer, there's no disputing that- but the format of the course could really do with some reworking.
There is a ton of reading
This is the best intro to government class there is. A heavy reading load comes with that, but it's worth it.
A lot of reading, but a GREAT intro to Government.
The class covers the canon of work essential to much of political science. If you are prepared to read and understand a lot of articles, you will get a lot out of the class. I thoroughly enjoyed Levitsky's lectures-the high point of the class.
You should definitely take this course if you have an interest in the government systems and institutions of other countries as they relate to each other. If you have an interest in the subject, you will find the abundance of readings engaging and not all that difficult to get through. However, if you are not interested in comparative government, don't take the class, because again, there is an incredible amount of reading to do for this course. However, it's manageable if you create a reading/study group with some of your classmates. The papers and midterms are not all that difficult either.
This course is amazing; Levitsky is an engaging lecturer, and the awareness of how causal factors (i.e. institutions, leaders, etc.) shape global events that can be gained from this course is monumental. Even though there is a lot of material (esp. readings), by the end of the course you realize how much you've gained regardless of the amount of material you were able to actually spend time with.
If you can't do the readings, at least try to know which author contributed what idea.
Readings!
This is a great course.  Professor Levitsky gives fabulous lectures and the section component (in my experience) is very strong and an important addition to the lectures.  The course primarily covers history but does a great job being applicable to modern events.  Be prepared to do a lot of reading.  However, the reading is more manageable than you think.  Once you find a method of reading that works for you, it can actually go relatively quickly.  If you can find a way to do all the reading yourself, that is probably best; however, there are plenty of people who form study groups and split up the readings.  You should definitely take this class!
This was probably the best course I took this semester. The content of the course felt not only interesting, but very relevant and useful to know, providing the students with a good understanding of comparative politics. Professor Levitsky is a great lecturer, making every lecture very interesting and easy to understand. The 2 papers assigned in the semester offer a good opportunity to analyze in more depth some of the topics covered in the course that interest you the most. The midterm and final exam are not too hard and give you many options to choose those topics you are interested in the most. Section is a great opportunity to engage in stimulating class discussions and go over the readings assigned for the week. I recommend this class by all means!
Only take if you are adept in efficient reading.
Form study groups to split the readings
Levitsky rocks. The info is interesting. Section is good. Papers and exams, not too bad. This class is entirely ideal in every fashion except for the reading. It's heavy. Having not been in a study group, it is still quite doable; worst case scenario, you don't do some of it, which you can get away with pretty easily (though you won't get nearly as much out of the class).
I would tell them that if you are TRULY interested in theory and comparative politics and are willing to set aside eight to twelve hours a week to read the course materials then they should take the class.
This course is essential for anyone interested in any type of politics. You get such a great overview of political theory and the different types of politics around the world. The lectures are a pleasure, and section discussion was really fun. As long as you plan enough time for the reading, it's manageable!
This class was a lot more difficult than I thought it would be.  There were so many readings that it was impossible to do them all, and they were less interesting than I thought they would be.
It's hard, but amazing.
Take this class!! With a good study group, the reading load is manageable. The class gives you a whole new way to think about the word around you, providing you with the mechanisms to think about political issues for yourself.
I am not a gov concentrator but this was the best course I have taken so far.  It made me see and think about important concepts such as democracy and revolution with greatly increased insight and in new, important ways. Take it!
If you're at all interested in government, Gov 20 is definitely the class to take. The course does a good job of laying out the major theories in an easy to understand, interesting way. Be warned though, there is a lot reading to do, and whether or not you do the reading can do a lot for your performance in the class and how well you understand the material.
You can learn a lot!
Levitsky is an unbelievable lecturer, and the course is very well designed. You learn a lot!
Professor Levitsky is great. The readings are very interesting and you learn a lot about the world around you. Why are some countries world powers and others developing?
Lectures are entertaining and instructive. The course is difficult and the readings are lengthy and complex, but if you put in the work, an A is not out of the question. Besides difficulty, a lot can be learned through this course about how the world works, and the material is incredibly interesting and engaging.
Gov 20 was probably my favourite course of freshman fall. Yes the readings are very long, but the subject matter is fascinating and incredibly relevant. Form a study group to split the readings up and try and scan through as much as possible, and the readings soon become very manageable. Do not be put off by the readings, Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer and this will course will provide you with a huge amount of useful skills and information. If you have any interest in global/comparative politics, take this class!
This class is great. It's much more than a "politics" class, touching on topics such as ethnic violence, revolution, and voting systems. Levitsky is a superb lecturer, and while there are lots of readings, they never feel boring or useless.
This class has a ton of reading but you can get away with not doing all of it if you join a study group and pay attention in lecture and section. You will learn fascinating things and be forced to think critically about the world we live in. It is an excellent course to take if contemplating the government concentration or even if you just want to get a taste for comparative politics.
This course provides a great overview of all the key theories of comparative politics. However, there is a ton of reading, and most of it doesn't get addressed in lecture. Professor Levitsky gives engaging and at times witty lectures and his colloquialisms help students understand the theories.
This was by far my favorite course my freshman fall semester. Yes, it is easy to become bogged down in the readings, but Professor Levitsky is an outstanding, fantastic lecturer and puts all of the readings into an applicable context. Fantastic course overall!
Be efficient! Do what is necessary!
Take it.
Don't get bogged down in the readings. Take good notes, read as much as you can and enjoy the lectures.
It's a great introductory course that's really engaging and informative. It helped me to learn so much about what's going on in the world and to delve into why countries operate the way they do.
Take it, read the reading, and enjoy.
Gov 20 is difficult because there is a lot to read. However, it can help you manage and structure your time.
You won't be able to do all the readings, so learn how to skim. The broad lessons you learn from each unit, though, are FASCINATING and extremely useful for understanding the world in general! The grading is tough but fair.
The class has a reputation for having a lot of readings, but they're really not that bad if you space them out. Make sure you do the readings: they get more interesting over time as you start connecting them to each other in your mind, and they really enhance lecture! Professor Levitsky is great.
This is a really great class. Levitsky definitely lives up to his reputation for being a brilliant lecturer. He's also very funny. There are plenty of readings, but they're rarely boring.
There is a lot of reading. That tripped me up in the beginning, and I obsessed about just how much of it there was. However, you have to get over it, just buckle down and do it. There is more reading assigned than can actually be completed, and the professor and the TFs understand that. Try to understand the main idea of each reading, and definitely familiarize with the major theories throughout the course. Do not allow all of the work to pile up. If you fall behind and miss some readings for one week, keep going. You cannot get bogged down and stuck in material that is two weeks old. This class is challenging. It will require you to dedicate a lot of time and think about the issues at hand. However, it is incredibly doable, and if you put the effort in, you will see the fruit of those efforts. Professor Levitsky alone is reason to take the course.
Levitsky is a fantastic, engaging, enthusiastic lecturer. Certainly one of the best at Harvard. As well, the information taught in Gov 20 actually matters outside the classroom. Great ideas & concepts.
Gov 20 is a wonderful introduction to comparative politics and the study of government at Harvard.  The reading load is not quite as onerous as I think most people think.  It can be completed in a couple hours a week if one really focuses, less if one has a study group.  You learn through the course to know which readings to skim and which to read (and which to skip).  And Levitsky does a great job summarizing many of the readings in lecture.  Be aware that basically your entire grade is decided by your TF.
Readings are comprehensive, but can be skimmed if you have any background in political theory or have taken history classes that address styles of government. If you're only in it for the requirement, then it can be tackled rather easily. As challenging as you make it.
It was a great class... super interesting. I feel i can have an intelligible conversation about comparative politics, and I now as I look at headline news stories I think I now know something more about how the world works.
Professor Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer who teaches all of the material to his students effectively and delivers his lectures with enthusiasm. You can really tell that he cares about the course. The reading load can seem daunting at first, but you will end up discovering that it is not necessary to do all the readings to do well in the class. In addition, it is essential to form a study group in this class to split up the readings and share notes.
Levitsky's lectures are extremely insightful and informative. The reading can seem tough at times, but it is certainly manageable. The course does a great job emphasizing and teaching the big ideas in comparative politics.
Brilliant! Very manageable, FANTASTIC professor - Levitsky rocks - and extremely rewarding class.
Take this class. You will learn so much, and it's a great introduction class!
The class will teach you mch about how countries around the world function and how we might predict important events in their future. There is much reading, but one can get by without doing it all. The lectures and sections are great.
Levitsky is an incredible lecturer and teacher; however, the course readings do take a lot of work to get through, so know that you are signing on for a lot of work. But overall, would recommend.  If you're interested in government generally, take this. It gives you a great sampling on different components of government.
I decided to shop this class on a whim, and immediately fell in love with Levitsky's lecture.  If you want a class that develops analytical skills with excellent section discussions, this class is for you.
amazing and interesting course but an immense amount of reading.
This course gives you a great background in both world history and comparative politics. The readings may be a drag, but the assignments aren't too frequent nor too difficult, and I was really impressed with the amount of material I truly feel I learned at the end of it all.
The reading is a lot but if you're interested in government, it is worth it
The lectures are excellent and very informative you can get a lot out of the class from them alone. The readings can certainly help you take more out of the class, but they are by no means necessary for you to learn a good deal and succeed.
This class is a fabulous introduction to comparative politics. Don't let the amount of reading intimidate youthe readings are fascinating, study groups dramatically reduce your workload, and section can help you clarify and synthesize the many readings. Levitsky is a very engaging lecture and this course can expose you to interests in many different fields, especially in the social sciences. Also, since this course is such a Harvard institution, you can rely on a strong teaching staff.
Professor Levitsky is a phenomenal lecturer who exposes you to ideas and analysis that truly captures the essence of what it means to study at Harvard.  That being said, there is a LOT of reading.  I have had 20/20 vision my whole life, and over Thanksgiving break I had to buy glasses so I could finish up the semester.  The work is worth it though-so definitely take the class.
Take this class! Don't stress about the readings. You don't need to read them uber carefully. Sometimes, you don't need to read them at all. If you are ok with ending up with a B/B+ in the class then it is super easy. If you want an A you are going to have to work a little bit more.
It's a very decent gen ed. I enjoyed it a lot and I am nowhere close to being a gov concentrator - Levitsky is a very engaging lecturer and although the volume of assigned reading was horrific (and I definitely never did all of it) I often left lectures feeling enriched because some of these things I just had never thought about before but are really important questions and issues.
This is a amazing course. It has great material with a really wide range. Obviously the readings are really overwhelming and as I know a lot of freshmen take this class, you should be prepared. Make a study group and do not get behind or you will regret it. Otherwise it's an amazing class and would seriously recommend it to any government concentrator.
If anything, I think the less you know, the better off you are in this class as you are genuinely in a position to learn a great deal in a very orderly and intelligent fashion. Having lived abroad most of my life, under non-US-style governments, I was sometimes less than interested by the material. The readings are very lengthy and study groups are key in order not to get bogged down.
I think this class is an important class to take. However, I warn you that it is also an intimidating class because those who do choose to take it are all at different levels of experience with government and thus it makes it somewhat more difficult.
Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer, but do not underestimate how time-consuming the readings will be, They are a pain, and sometimes completely unhelpful, so you have to take that section of the course with a big grain of salt.
Professor Levitsky is a great lecturer, and section can definitely be interesting and informative (although I'm guessing it varies depending on tf, as usual), but a lot of what you take away is information you could get from a few hours on wikipedia. There are a ton of readings (more than a thousand pages in the course packs, plus a few paperbacks) for an intro course, and it isn't really necessary to do all of them, but to get the information you need to know you basically have to do all of them. If you're interested in understanding the causes of a number of interesting political phenomena and the reasons why different countries simply can't operate in the same way, and you don't have the motivation to read about it on your own, you can definitely learn a good amount from this class. But you have to be willing to do a good amount of reading, or else you won't retain much.
be ready for very heavy reading but very interesting lectures
Easy, don't actually have to do the readings.
This class has A LOT of reading. Be prepared to join a study group to divide it up or organize a schedule where you read for a certain amount of time each day. Getting a study group together where every member reads everything but takes notes only on certain readings is the most beneficial. This way each member gets notes on every reading for review later and still has background on the material.
Gov 20 is an amazing introduction to the discipline of comparative politics, which I recommend with enthusiasm. As an international student, I found the course illuminating: Gov 20 definitely taught me  how to think analytically about the diversity in culture, economic well-being, and political behaviour that people around the world experience. The course readings are a selection of very bright and smart political science writing, although it can get hard to deal with the hundreds of pages that you will be assigned weekly. The greatest difficulty of the course is definitely the sheer amount of readings: it takes discipline to keep up with all of them. It's true, though, that the conceptual material is emphasised way more than the factual one: you really won't have to read every single line of every single page. In order to well on the papers and the exams, the most important thing is to fully understand the thrust of each author's argument, and to be able to give it a place within the academic debate. A good set of lecture and reading notes will be invaluable come finals time: although it takes a lot of discipline, I would strongly recommend to compile good reading note. Even if they are just a couple of lines describing the argument of each paper, they will be SO helpful to you.Prof. Levitsky is just awesome: his style of lecturing is dynamic, clear, and humorous. You will enjoy every minute of his lectures.Overall, a great class. If you think you'll be interested in questions such as the reasons for economic development and democratization (or lack thereof), or the relative importance of culture and institutions in shaping political outcomes such as ethnic conflict or social revolutions, you won't be disappointed. Even if just to get a bit more knowledge about the world, take it!
Relatively heavy workload, great lecturer (go Prof Levitsky!(
Difficult, but very interesting. A comprehensive introduction to comparative politics geared towards those who haven't had previous experience in the subject.
There are a LOT of readings so find a study group early.  Sections can be really fun and a great place for good discussions.  I didn't have the slightest interest in government or politics before taking this course (was a well recommended gen ed), but now I truly feel like a well-rounded person and am more interested than when I started; I actually pay attention to international news now with genuine interest.  Definitely not the easiest way to get your Societies of the World credit, but perhaps the most useful to making you a mature adult; this stuff is a basic requirement for being able to engage in discussions at dinner parties when you're middle aged.
Prof. Levitsky is amazing, a really engaging lecturer who also makes a real effort to get to know all the students, and while the readings are a ton, it's worth it because the course feels like how I always hoped college would be. I love that the focus is on contrasting different theories, upon which the readings are clearer than in any other class, because now I feel I have solid knowledge of theories for a variety of social science/history learning.You should DEFINITELY take this course, just make sure to note that the readings take a long time if you do them all.
It's a fun course with a lot of interesting readings (but also a lot of boring/obvious ones).  You can do very well in the class by either going to lecture or doing the readings.  Doing both is probably unnec.
With wonderful lectures, engaging sections, and a funny, approachable professor, though Gov 20 appears daunting and potentially boring at first, it was not at all for me. I always enjoyed lectures and even liked discussing lessons in section because I had a great TF. Of all the classes, I took this semester, I think I learned the most new things in Gov 20 - all kinds of theories as well as case studies of history around the world. It really helps you understand current events. I also know that I actually learned things, as opposed to memorizing them temporarily. The one downside is the heavy reading. But make a study group, work on skimming, realize you do not need to know every reading perfectly (by any means) and you'll be fine. I really recommend this class!
It's a lot of reading and can be a lot of work, but it's really well-organized and teaches you a lot of basic theories.
lectures are really great
There is a TON of reading, but you don't really have to do all of it and the grading of the midterm and papers is pretty lenient.  Such an amazing and interesting course, though - I'd definitely recommend taking it.  Try to get Colin Brown as your TF if he stays on, because he is the absolute best.  Levitsky's lectures are really helpful, so I'd recommend going to them - I've been to every single one, and although I don't pay attention all the time, I know I've benefited from going.
Just take into account that this is an intro class that covers a very, very, wide range of topics. As such, it doesn't go into much depth and you really don't have any chances to really think critically and write originally, etc. It is a good survey of all sort of political thought, however...
Go to lecture - watching them online just isn't the same - and do as much of the reading as possible, since going back and having to do almost all of it while writing an essay is extremely unpleasant.
Be prepared to be devastated by the amount of readings, but highly rewarded by both their quality and that of the lectures.  Truly an incredible course.
The topics are very interesting, and the lectures are simply amazing. If you are a slow reader, it may take forever to go through the readings and make it hard for you to commit to other classes/ activities. Yet, it is possible to get by without doing all the reading; the lecture notes and the summaries that are handed out by the TFs can be very useful.
Government 20 is one of those "right of passage" courses that is actually enjoyable. I walked away from the class with a greater depth of understanding about international relations, comparative politics, and contemporary debates surrounding global affairs. Professor Levitsky is a world-class lecturer who really does care about his students, despite the hundreds of them that enroll in the course. He even has a weekly lunch with a small group of students. It's important to do all of the readings, even though they can be quite time-consuming. Each, however, adds something valuable to the conversation and ultimately helped me as a student better understand the course material as a whole. If you're thinking about concentrating in government, this will give you a good idea about what you'll be discussing and studying. Overall, it was a great course, and I would highly recommend it.
I would say that there is a large reading load, but that the lectures are excellent and that the course teaches some important fundamentals of comparative politics.
The material the class covers is very theoretical and often seems to have little relevance to politics as it actually exists in the world--fine if you're interested in political theory, but not if you're more interested in international relations/current events/history. There's really no need to do the reading--you just need to know the gist of each author's argument for section and the exams, which are very straightforward.
This course is a ton of work, and there is no way you will ever do all of the readings without spending hours and hours each week. But the material is really interesting, Levitsky is an incredible lecturer, and you will not regret taking the course in the end.
You have to take this class before you graduate! Everyone complains about the reading but it isn't really that much if you split it up with a study group. However, you should definitely do the readings because they are necessary to have thoughtful discussions in sections. Make sure you build a relationship with your TF because they can be very helpful throughout the span of the course. Also, attend the lunches with Professor Levitsky! Do NOT miss out on  getting to know on of the best professors at Harvard!
There is a lot of reading in this class, but it is manageable with the right amount of preparation. Study groups are a useful tool to be able to get the gist of all the readings without actually doing all the reading. The lectures are very interesting, and Colin is a great TF. I learned a lot about comparative politics from this course, even though I had no idea about the subject coming into the class.
Levitsky is a great professor. Not only is he a fantastic lecturer, but he also shows he cares about his students. This class was definitely one of the highlights of my semester. Also, the readings might seem daunting at times, so study groups and smart reading skills are very useful.
This class is not easy--it was probably the most time-consuming out of all of my classes--but I can tell you that you will not regret taking it. Professor Levitsky is incredible. He not only gives fabulous lectures but also cares about his students. This was my favorite class of the semester.  Personally, I have left this course wanting to study comparative politics more. The course gives an overview of all the different themes discusses by comparative politics experts. It's so cool reading a ground-breaking piece of work and realizing that the person who wrote it is a Harvard professor.
This class is a must for anyone interested in Government. The reading is heavy, but you can do well without doing all of the reading. An easy class for a gen ed credit as well.
It is a lot of reading, but totally worth it.
Gov 20 is a very solid introduction to comparative poltics, and to political science as a whole.  The readings are well-chosen and the lectures are excellent.  Unfortunately, the huge amount of reading can be daunting, so you must learn how to get the most out of the limited amount of reading you do.
This class is definitely worth taking.  It is very engaging and will give you a greater understanding about how the world works.  Take this class if you are even slightly interested in gov; will hook you.
Lots of reading; form a study group and stick with it.
It's important to be sure to focus on what the ideas presented in the course signify in a real world context. Without this, the course can seem like an endless succession of unrewarding readings. When the significance of the course is considered, however, few would argue it's not a necessary course for any 21st century student to take.
You will work. But you will also learn. One of the best classes I have taken thus far because I learned so much.
Fantastic course - engaging lectures and fascinating material. Definitely makes you see the world a different way.
I think Levitsky's lectures were a large part of why I enjoyed this course so much, but the readings are also interesting--try to do as much of them as possible.
You learn a lot. You become a much more sophisticated political scientist.
This class truly teaches you how to read well individually in college, so a student taking this course should be prepared to devote the time to the many readings on a weekly basis. I would also really recommend writing down the main points/ideas from each reading every week- that will be a life saver on the exams and essays. I would also recommend using the support provided for you by the Governmental Department Writing Fellow or your teaching fellow's office hours. Although it is a lot of work, I highly recommend this class.
As long as you can read and write quickly, this class is not only easy, but it is also incredibly rewarding. It covers material that is very relevant to understand current politics: you will learn about modernization, democratization, revolutions--all fascinating information, and Levitsky is just a great lecturer.
Gov20 is the place to be! You will have a blast in this class. The readings are not as long as you think and you don't actually need to read things from cover to cover. Enjoy
Gov20 is an absolutely amazing course. it was one of the first courses I took at Harvard, and it has certainly set the bar high for courses to come. Levitksy is phenomenal; go to one of his lectures live, at the very least (I watched all of them live), and even if you don't take Gov20, stop by and watch him. He is extremely passionate, engaging, funny, and knowledgable. Truly a show to watch. He does a great job synthesizing all the reading you do and making the information relevant and interesting. Recommend over and over again.
There is a lot of reading! Be prepared to sacrifice a large part of your week if you want to do the readings properly.
This class is a pretty rigorous introduction to Government. It could be really bad, but Levitsky is a really great lecturer. His lectures are so good that you can get away with not doing all the reading (which really isn't *that* substantial). A lot is expected of you in this course.
be sure that you are ready to work really really hard
Take this course if your are interested in a foundational government course. The material is great and easy to understand, there is just too much reading.
Take it if you have any interest in political science. It is a great introductory course. Levitsky is a great lecturer. It's a lot of reading, but not an impossible amount. Great foundational course.
The lectures are fascinating, and the course definitely teaches you not only the facts and theories included in the source packet but also how to read and write in a political science class.  But if you're not interested in pursuing poli sci, I wouldn't necessarily recommend the course.  There's a TON of reading, and if you're not willing to put the time in, you're going to feel behind and confused.  Again, however, the lectures are amazing.  I enjoyed this course overall, and I wouldn't have if not for the professor.
This is one of those classes that changes you as a person. This class will provide you with the global outlook and knowledge to make sense of any issue happening in the world. Furthermore, it provides you with the basis to synthesize solutions to these problems, as well as the ability to carry a profound conversation on global events with a person from any part of the world, from any religion, culture, etc. I would change the name of this class to: Introduction to the World 101. Also, it is hard to find such a great lecturer like Levistky, who can make the class interesting for a person from any major.
It's rewarding and fascinating, but a ton of reading.
This was my favorite class Freshman Fall but that might have a lot to do with the fact Government and Politics affairs really interest me. The reading load is extensive, but let me tell you it is DEFINITELY manageable. I started off reading every article, and then went through two-four weeks where I relied on my Study group's notes (ps. Get  a study group) and realized that was really lazy/irresponsible of me. You can get it all done if you're diligent and getting it all done definitely makes the paper assignments/midterm/final a lot less intimidating.
Be prepared to read loads of information from several sources, to differentiate between the essential and not-so-essential, to make connections, and to concentrate on large concepts instead of details.
Do not take this class as an interesting gen ed. It is much more work and not very satisfying.
It is hard, but worth it! It was really interesting and Levitsky is an amazing lecturer. I learned a lot.
There is a lot of reading, but it is can easily be broken up with a study group, and Levitsky's lectures are absolutely fantastic.  You learn a lot of specific cases that you might not remember for long, but the introduction to the style of argument used in comparative politics is indispensable to anyone interested in government or other social sciences.
The huge amount of reading is not as daunting as it seems. The course emphasizes the take-home points of the reading rather than gritty details
This course will give you a great understanding of fundamental topics in comparative politics. It is a great combination of theoretical study and relevant case studies that anyone in the modern world should know about.
The material is really interesting, it's a good indicator of whether or not you'd like to continue government studies, and it teaches you to get a good grade in a class with minimum work (teaches you how to play your cards right).
This class gives a deep insight into politics and lets you realize whether Government might be your potential concentration. It is very exciting and interesting; Levitsky is a wonderful professor, no doubt!!! But you have to be ready to read... a lot! Tons of readings every week, but I think it is worth it. If you end up taking this class, set up a study group. It will help you enormously to struggle through readings and the course material.
The teaching and the material was interesting, but be prepared for a lot of work. If you know how to drop names in papers, you'll do fine.
Levitsky is an absolutely fantastic lecturer. His lectures are very fun to be a part of and you'll learn a lot. However, the amount of reading required is pretty ridiculous. Although interesting, the readings will keep you up late into the night. My roommate has had to get reading glasses!
The lectures and readings cover the same material so eventually students stop doing the readings. As someone who did the readings, this made section very unpleasant.
Professor Levitsky is fantastic! His lectures are so dynamic and engaging. It's clear that he is truly passionate about the course material, and that enthusiasm seems to seep into his students. Although this course requires a massive amount of reading (if you choose not to form a study group or borrow notes from someone who already took the course), this is a small price to pay for such an engaging and rewarding class.
As its name suggests, this course is a great introduction to comparative politics: it covers a broad range of topics, and the most important authors and concepts in the field. Because of this, you should take it whether you know you want to study social science, or just want to get an idea of what it's all about. Still, there is A LOT of reading, so in any case you must willing to devote a lot of time to this course. Also, Professor Levitsky is a great lecturer, so if you like the material, you will find the lectures very engaging.
Definitely take this class; it is as great a course as you will find here. It is also one of those classes that the more you put in, the more you get out. Do the readings and carefully think about the material. It also does a great job as a "Gen Ed" course of giving fascinating material that will shape how you think about and approach what is going in the world. Professor Levitsky is a dynamic lecturer and has designed this course to cover some really great stuff. He also really cares about the students so take the opportunity to talk with him whether through the lotteried lunches, office hours, or even just asking questions in lecture. Section was also a great component to this class. Discussions about the readings and lectures and their implications truly served to reinforce the ideas and bring the material to life. Overall, this was an amazing class and I highly recommend it.
It is amazing to learn about competing theories that explain the world's economic development, democratization, ethnic conflict and social revolution, besides the role institution, state, and civil society plays.
engaging and so interesting; great professor with excellent lectures; a lot of reading but it is worth it
Good intro course.
It's a lot of reading, but you may find it worth it.
Gov 20 is very interesting and engaging course. Levitsky's lectures are top notch and always exciting, but the one draw back would definitely be the reading load. I was a in a study group of 6 which made the class a bit more manageable-and I strongly recommend being in one- but nevertheless be prepared to do a lot of reading. All in all this was an amazing course and I recommend taking it if you are a potential Gov concentrator.
Readings at times are dense, but you get so much more out of it if you do the readings properly
The readings may be tough, but the material is worth reading (especially if you're able to put it in perspective and look at the big picture)!
lectures are great, levitsky is a boss, but the actually course involves reading a ton of theories and the writing about them, which i don't particularly find interesting. also the readings are a completely unrealistic amount, though you literally don't have to do them to do well.
This is an incredible course for getting an introduction to comparative politics. Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and really walks you through the material. While many students complain about the large amount of reading, I found it to be very helpful in that it really provides an in-depth introduction to all of the concepts. The end of the course allows you to synthesize all of the material together, and you leave with a much greater understanding of comparative politics.
very interesting and great professor. The material is relevant and the assignments are not overwhelming. break up the reading!
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! I think it's a great introductory class, especially for freshmen. It was the highlight of my freshman fall. If you're interested at all in politics or international relations, you need to take this class.
Take the BSC's course about how to read for college.
While the readings may seem like a lot, a study group paired with section really do a lot for student's retention of the material and theories.  The theories aren't hard to grasp, and the course's evaluation of cultural and political factors in different areas, how they are related and their usefulness in prediction would be interesting to a large portion of students who have different foci in government.
Pay attention in lecture when Levitsky quotes specific theorists, he'll summarize and stuff and then save you a bunch of time in reading super thoroughly through certain readings.
Prepare to read a ton if you want to keep up with lectures and section; however, it is very possible to do well if you can analytically dissect arguments and articulate your thoughts in writing well.
Excellent and interesting, especially if you're even somewhat interested in comparative politics.
PLEASE take this class. It will change your life. You will never read the news the same way again. If everyone took Gov20, the world would be a better place. Professor Levitsky is absolutely fantastic--he is a brilliant and witty guy who puts so much effort into both his lectures and into getting to know his students. Best class I've ever taken at Harvard.
Gov 20 is a good introduction to comparative politics. Levitsky is a great lecturer - his lectures are the most enjoyable aspect to this class. The reading-load is far too heavy; forming a study group is a necessity, as it is unlikely that you will do all of the readings individually. Exams and essays are not terribly difficult. Still, the class was stressful because of its reading-load; even when I wasn't doing the readings, I was worried that I was falling behind in class, and I was constantly concerned about that. I feel that I would have gained a lot more from the class if I had done the readings individually; most of my knowledge came from cramming for exams.
The lectures are very interesting, but you need to be ready to take in a lot of material in a short amount of time, both for lectures and readings.
I would definitely recommend this class, but particularly if you are taking it pass/fail or if you are older and know how to manage the reading a bit better. Freshmen tend to get overwhelmed with the reading.
The reading is NOT BAD!! Do not let people scare you off the reading! it's totally manageable and worthwhile as well. Unless you're looking for a reallly really easy no effort course, this is definitely  a worthwhile class. I found it highly rewarding and with good planning and reading skills you can definitely manage to get the most of out the readings-proff levitsky also goes over much of the subject matter in class again as well, so you will be kept up to speed. A fantastic course overall!
the readings take over your life until you realize that you don't have to do them because Levitsky covers it all in lecture.
great class
By far one of Harvard's best classes!
The readings are a lot, but you can start to figure out which ones are important and which ones aren't early on into the semester to be smart with your studying.  If you can understand the theories, know the terms, and synthesize them together to formulate your own opinion effectively, you can get an A in this class.
Be prepared for a lot of reading and the TF you get really matters
It is a great course if you are interested in government and the way countries function, how countries sometimes find trouble, and the causes of that trouble.
Levitsky gives a wonderfully engaging, critical, and holistic overview of comparatic politics. Take it if you have any interest in the past and future of modern nations, and if you can stand the 1300+ pages of reading.
It is a hard class with a lot of reading. Make sure you get a study group to help split the readings. BUT you learn a lot and it deepens your understanding about the different types of government, their uses, and how they function.
This class is a lecture format that is still extremely accessible. Professor Levitsky is friendly and offers office hours as well as weekly lunches with students to get to know them, which is great. The grading is also very fair. There is a lot of reading, but the reading is still manageable. I would definitely recommend it - lecture is fantastic, and you really learn a lot.
this class can be tough, but it's so rewarding and interesting
Everyone's all concerned about all the reading...but if you just go to class or watch the lecture videos that day, levitsky goes through the important readings and cases, and you'll be able to crush section...otherwise the material is pretty interesting and Levitsky is indeed an awesome lecturer
A great introduction to comparative government.
Levitsky is phenomenal. The course covers a broad base for comparative politics, which can be useful in any number of topics. Even if you aren't a Gov concentrator, take this course for the useful  foundation it provides in understanding how states work and interact.
Professor Levitsky is the best lecturer I have heard in my time here thus far.  It's an awesome class, even if you aren't interested in Gov.
Levitsky is a boss.  This class is awesomethe lectures are so great and the material is fantastic.
Yes, a lot of reading, but Prof. Levitsky's lectures are great
Levitsky is an excellent professor. Yes, the course is quite some work  but it's totally worth it. You learn so much on how the world functions politically.
Professor Levitsky not only does an amazing job teaching this class, but he also wants to get to know his students. Take advantage of this and reach out to him with questions and interests. He is great professor to get to know.
It's a difficult class. I personally didn't like it because it dealt with international concepts.
Find a good study group to split up the readings. You'll love Levitsky's lectures. Go to his lunches and get to know him; he's a gem of a professor and rare exception at Harvard.
the reading is INSANE but the lectures are worth it - if you're willing to put in the work, the class can be intriguing
This is an awesome course with fun lectures and interesting topics.
The readings will be a lot, but meaningful and well worth your time to do them
Gov 20 is a great class. Professor Levitsky is fantastic and teaches the material well and makes it understandable to those who have never studied government before in and engaging manner. The reading load seems daunting at the beginning of the semester but ends up being manageable as you figure out how to read efficiently. Definitely a worthwhile course for any social science concentrator and those who are interested in international or current events.
The reading is not as bad as everyone says it is. Sure, it's a lot. Then again, it's a college class. Study groups are a must, though I recommend doing all the readings yourself any how. Levitsky is a great lecturer and covers a lot from the readings as well in lecture. There are two essays, which are not too bad as long as you start early. Besides that, the class is definitely manageable for incoming freshmen, and seems like a good place to start for exploring the Gov concentration.
You will learn about MANY issues, but will not learn them very in depth.
-crazily useful, but a lot of reading.
Gov20 is an interesting class, covering many political scholars with cases from around the world.
If you are interested in going into government or history, I would definitely take this course. However, because I have no interest in going into either of these things, I feel as if I spent a lot of time on something that I have no interest in further pursuing. That being said, Levitsky was a great lecturer and I did learn a lot from this course.
form reading groups
There is a ton of reading, but I would strongly recommend that you do all of it. Some may suggest a study group that splits the readings and shares notes, but I encourage you to try to read all of the course readings yourself; they are fascinating.
Great class - I went in hesitant about both the reading and the subject and came out loving it.  Levitsky is an amazing teacher and a great lecturer.
There is so much reading and the class is so broad that at first I questioned why I had enrolled in this course.  As the semester progresses, however, the topics become progressively more interesting.  The lectures near the end of the course are incredible, and Levitsky really takes the effor to get to know his students.  My advice: take this course if you want a very solid background on political science, but be aware that you may need a bit of shock therapy at first.
This is a fantastic class that I would highly recommend. It gives you an entirely new perspective on the world. Levitsky is an excellent professor with a real passion for teaching and is very approachable.Concerning the workload - there is a lot of material covered and the weekly readings assigned sometimes may be a bit much, yet try to read as much of it as you can! I would also suggest joining a study group. Being part of a group gives you an incentive read in time for section and makes the class more enjoyable. Definitely pay attention to the ongoing list of weekly terms and try to summarize the argument of each author in a sentence or two. This will make studying for tests a bit easier.
BE prepared fo a considerable amount of work but to also learn a lot. This class despite what many might tell you is manageable even if you are not government-minded
Amazing class. Levitsky is an amazing lecturer. If you're in any way interested in this stuff and need to fulfill the Government subfield take it! A lot of reading but worth it.
This is a great class if you're into politics or anything about the world. It is a lot of work if you're just mildly interested or want an elective.
This class is very theory heavy. It is a good foundation course for government and political analysis. It does not delve into real-life application as much as I had hoped, but it is a good foundation course.
Make sure you have a plan for dealing with the readings. I didn't, and it ended up costing me. Other than that this is a great course and Professor Levitsky is an excellent lecturer.
Very good, varied and well-structured introduction to comparative politics. You learn about culture, governments, history and in the end you can see how much you have learned. It is especially fun when you can apply the theories you learn to what is going on in the world right now.
The lectures are really wonderful, and Levitsky is a great professor. However, be aware that you're signing up for insane amounts of reading and overly specific guidelines for succeeding on exams and papers.
Levitsky is the best lecturer I've had thus far at Harvard. He's captivating, coherent, and informative. If anything, take this class for him. You may have heard this course has a ton of assigned reading. This is true. Don't tell anyone, but *whispers* you don't actually have to read them all although it probably wouldn't hurt to read them if you have the time. Find a good study guide, LISTEN IN LECTURE and in section I guess. As long as you understand the theory behind each author you only need to read for papers.
A fantastic course all around
I now look at the world in a different way. This class is a LOT of work but will stretch you and provide important fundamentals
Lots of reading, great lectures, good information to know.
Gov 20 is an absolutely wonderful class, and I would highly recommend it. Rather than going country by country-- which I had previously thought was what comparative politics meant-- gov 20 looks at important international trends and processes, like economic development, democratization, and revolution by charting both the main theories in each area and examining some case studies. You will love it!
Be prepared to read!
This is a good class, despite the enormous reading load, because Levitsky is an unparalleled lecturer. He can synthesize many of the readings together into one hour lecture and he is captivating and funny. The class itself explores many ideas and theories about the world that matter, and exposes you to things one probably has not studied before in high school.
Levitsky is awesome. There is a lot of reading, with a mix of theory and cases. Join a study group. Try to do all the readings and then edit the outlines from the other students in your group. Skipping over the "case" information (like the supporting evidence of specific countries) in the readings is ok to save time, since most of that info comes from lecture. Levitsky is awesome.
Even though this is an introductory class, you learn a lot about political science and schools of thought in Gov 20. Prof. Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer and makes an effort to get to know students outside of class. The readings can be overwhelming, it is probably not possible to do all of them by yourself. Finding a reliable study group to divide up the readings is essential and also sufficient for sections. Papers provide an opportunity to delve deeper into the readings, so the class is structured so that you will understand the material if you keep up.
Excellent class. Professor Levitsky is the best lecturer I've had in my three semesters at Harvard. He makes the material very interesting (it's pretty interesting on its own actually), but he certainly generates enthusiasm. I would recommend this class to any who is interested in learning about the world and how and why things like democracy, economic development, revolution or ethnic conflict happen.
This is by no means an easy class, nor is it always fun.  But upon its completion you will have an entirely different outlook on the world, and what causes the conflicts within it.  If you want to better understand our modern world, you need to take this course.
This was the best course I have taken at Harvard thus far.  Professor Levitsky is absolutely brilliant.  If you are considering a Gov concentration, I would consider this course a MUST.  You will walk away understanding global politics and a wide array of historical context for how the world works.  Please, take this course.  Especially you, freshman who likes government.  I know you are reading this hoping to find that perfect inspirational class for your first semester at Harvard, I know I was.  Look no further, my friend.  This is it.  Levitsky inspired me so many times throughout the year, and every lecture and reading left me with a "wow... I understand now" sort of moment.  Take the course.
I would definitely recommend this course to anyone who wants to become more aware about today's political environment--only if the person is willing to put in the time and effort it takes to read the course pack!
This is really a great class - especially if you're at all interested in government.  Levitsky is a great lecturer.The only problem is the reading.  No individual can get through it alone - unless all of your other classes are very easy, or unless your version of "Facebook" is having your "face" shoved in a "book", studying (i.e., you don't care about your social life).  If neither of the above categories is you, then definitely plan on forming a study group - or die.Overall, definitely one of the better classes Harvard has to offer and if you have a study group and know how to read effectively, the reading is more than manageable.
There's a ton of reading, but just be sure to join a study group and it should be fine.  Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer.
Levitsky's lectures are incredibly engaging. But be prepared to do a ton of reading. Don't take this class without Levitsky.
Set aside time for the reading. You don't have to do it all to do well in the class, but it is honestly interesting stuff.
This course is worth taking just to understand the way the world works a little better. Even if you don't go into government, Levitsky is a great professor, and the knowledge is relevant to world events that everyone should know more about.
Form a reading group to split up the readings and summerize them.  These summaries not only make the workload much more manageable; they also make great study materials for the test.
This class is very engaging and interesting even for those not majoring in government.
Don't let the amount of reading scare you.  Get with a study group and you'll be fine.  If you aren't comfortable with study groups, then just skim.  Also, don't wait until the last minute to do anything for this class, as that could be disastrous with such a large volume of information to process and digest, and spit back out for a report or exam.  Prepare way ahead of time for this class.  It's not a hard class but just be aware of the assignments and do the reading so you aren't caught up at the end.
Form good study groups and split up the reading
This course is great. But if you're gonna take it, be really willing to. If you don't really care that much about this course, it will reflect in your grade. There are a lot of overzealous people who take this course who kind of ruin the grades for the more normal people. I learned a lot, but really didn't like that you had to go to the end of the world to get an A. Some people just don't have the time/energy to devote to it.
This class is a lot of work, but you get so much out of it. The reading is a lot, but it definitely helps for the papers. Coming out of the course you will know a lot more about international events of the last century, but also about various opinions of the reasons that certain political outcomes have occurred, so that you can create your own opinions. Levitsky's lectures are always entertaining and he gives a great overview and combination of the arguments of the various authors.
Levitsky is a phenomenal lecturer. He is very clear and his lectures are gripping. There is a lot of course material but the examinations are not too demanding. I would highly recommend this course to anyone who curious about international issues of any kind.
Gov20 is one of the most consistently interesting classes I've ever taken. Although the readings and subject matter may at first seem daunting, any student willing to face the challenge will come out of the course with a much better understanding of global politics.
It is hard to keep up with all of the readings so keep that in mind, and join a study group which summarizes each of the sources for a better understanding. Overall, this is a great first gov class and worth taking, especially as a Freshman.
Although the reading in this class may be unmanageable it shouldn't drive you away from taking the class. Professor Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and the work is manageable. I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in Government.
This class is amazing, Levitsky is a great lecturer. However, the reading can be overkill sometimes (150+ pages a week of thick stuff). Join a study group it will really ease the load.
If you are interested in government theory, this is a good class to take. However, expect a mostly Western perspective on issues, and also, there are a ton of readings. Be prepared to put in the time to at least skim each one or get together with a study group and divide the readings.
Get your reading hats on
I would suggest at least a small interest in government. I think this course would be very difficult to complete (because of the volume of reading required) if one did not have at least a moderate interest in the subject.
A lot of reading! Levitsky is a great lecturer though so as long as you attend lectures you should be ok. Take this course!!!
DO NOT GET BEHIND ON THE READINGS. Start a study group, outline the readings ahead of time, do the IDs ahead of time, make use of the TF, DO NOT GET BEHIND ON THE READINGS.
Go to class. Professor Levitsky is an excellent lecturer.
Levitsky gives phenomenal lectures...even if you aren't totally interested in Gov, they are totally vibrant and engaging.  Just be prepared to do A LOT of reading.  The physical work isn't too hard, but the reading can be overbearing depending on the week.  Overall a good class, but you should probably have an interest in Gov if you're taking it.
Though this course has an absurd amount of reading, I would recommend it because the lectures are very interesting and the events that are talked about are very relevant to things that are happening today.
Gov 20 was the most influential course I took this semester! It was influential in many ways, and I am grateful for all of them. First, the small but serious points: practical skills such as managing college reading, discussing theories in section, and writing papers. Everyone will tell you that Gov 20 has too much reading. I wouldn't necessarily agree with them. Professor Levitsky assigns the readings with care. If you take the hundreds of pages with a grain of salt -- and realize that you are not expected to read every single word as though it were a potentially life-altering legal document -- then you start to learn how to read for argument, and condense meaning from the paragraphs that appear to trudge endlessly on. It is using this approach that one can survive Barrington Moore and Theda Skocpol. In high school, perhaps we were expected to read every word assigned. But now it is a little different, and you have to adjust to having more to read, less time to read it, and learn how to attack your reading in such a way that you can be responsible for the arguments without also being responsible for destroying your sleep schedule and social life. If I had taken Gov 20 as a freshman, I would have freaked out even more than I did the first week, but I would have also been surrounded by lots of fellow hyperventilators, and we would have helped each other out, and I would have come to these same conclusions. Taking it as a sophomore, I did have my moments of hyperventilation, but I also had some study buddies, and I learned these important lessons about college reading -- except I could have benefitted from knowing them a year earlier in my Harvard career. If a student is considering taking Gov 20, I encourage him or her to take it as soon as possible, not to stick it in their course planner under the "later" tab.Next, some little skills I gained from section. Of course I had had sections before in my first year of college -- but I had never taken a class that was so reading-heavy and held such high expectations of our ability to condense and connect the arguments contained in the readings. My section leader, Amanda, was very helpful with encouraging us to connect between authors. I don't know if all of the sections had the "concept map" practice, but I am very grateful for it. They served as good reviews, and they got the discussion going by providing some rudimentary comparisons between authors' arguments. From there, we would discuss in section which authors seemed to make the most plausible claims, the most controversial, the most relevant, the best-supported by data or history; it was empowering to feel that we, through virtue of discussion, were allowed to question these giants of political theory just because we had the rest of the crowd laid out before us in the course packet. Before I got to college, there wasn't as much questioning of the theories -- we would discuss them, but we wouldn't try to dismantle or augment their arguments. It really was empowering to be given the chance to embellish someone like Nagel or Geertz, who seem so towering.The papers were a great opportunity to showcase what I thought of these arguments. Basically, they were a time to put into writing what had been put into words throughout weeks of section. I liked having the chance to focus on something specific and then expound upon it. Granted, the prompts were never very specific -- but after chatting with Amanda, I would narrow it down to what I wanted to talk about, and from there it was me and my readings, lecture notes, and Microsoft Word. Getting papers back is always a little frustrating for me, because I got A's so easily in high school but now find the standards are (appropriately) higher, so there tends to be some disappointment; but I still enjoyed talking with Amanda about my papers afterwards.
Definitely get a studyguide or form a studygroup to make the readings managable.  Be sure to attend lecture or at least watch the lecture videos before section.  It will make section really easy, even if you haven't done any of the weeks readings.  Do those two things and the class becomes pretty easy.
Gov 20 is certainly a weed out class for those who think they are considering a government concentration. Overall, I think it is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard and is certainly worth taking because Levitsky is an excellent lecturer.
This class has a lot of reading, but if you have a study group, it is very manageable. The information is interesting, so even though there's a lot of it, it's not plain memorization for the exam. If you have even a slight interest in government, I recommend this class!
Be prepared to read. The amount of reading can be over 100 pages for one lecture.
Levitsky is a boss.  Don't think, just take it.
Levitsky is the man. Outstanding lectures, huge enthusiasm. He also teaches with great clarity so you really think differently about the world by the end of the course.
This is AWESOME class; prof Levisky really prepares his materials and the teaching fellows are enthusiastic and helpful
Awesome class. Levitsky is a great lecturer and the topics are always interesting. The readings may seem intimidating, but get in a study group and you'll be fine.
The reading takes a lot of time but the class is so worth it. Lectures are awesome and if you get a good TF then section is too.
Professor Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and an awesome person. Definitely sign up for lunches with him. He is a really nice guy to talk to. It seemed like all the TF did pretty good job too. At least, my TF was amazing. She was really easy to reach to, and she was very helpful in writing essays. If you like bs-ing, than this class is not for you. Facts guys, facts. The essays are graded pretty harshly, but the midterm and final are not too bad. Actually, you have a pretty good chance of getting a nice grade if you are familiar with at least half of the material. And, again, the amount of readings is just going to kill you. You should definitely take this class during the Freshman year, as it is the only time you can allow yourself to mess up.
Definitely take this class, Prof. Levitsky is one of the best lecturers at Harvard and is a political science/history genius. The section leaders are for the most part awesome as well, and the class is completely worth the effort you have to put in. Exams are straightforward, and you are texted on material from the class (aka not random stuff that you wouldn't know). Everyone says join a study group, but honestly I don't think you need to. if you don't want to do all the readings on your own, then you MUST take great notes at lecture and section, and get your hands on an old study guide from a previous semester.
This class has a lot of reading. Make sure that you end up with a good TF.
Form a study group early to split up the readings. Mine had five people. Make sure to make good outlines for each reading to share with each other--this is as good as doing the readings for the week if you read them all through before section and meet as a group to discuss. They are also a crucial resource when doing the papers.
Even though the class has a good amount of reading, they are pretty interesting so this should not deter you from taking the class. Study groups are particularly useful to help you go through the readings and to analyze them. As you read pieces, it is good to formulate your own opinion so that you can more easily write the 2 papers that are assigned with the class. Overall, the content of the class was compelling and Professor Levitsky infused energy into the material through his lectures, making the class a very enjoyable one.
Take this class if Steven Levitsky is teaching it. A lot of students complain about the reading, but if you join a study group (which you should definitely do early in the semester), you only read an average of 40-50 pages a week. There are two essays for this class and each covers about 2 weeks of material. The TFs help out a lot with the essays so they're not that bad.
You will work hard to understand all of these authors and utilize the concepts they discuss, but it will be worth it for the incredible amount of knowledge you take from this course and for the privilege of Levitsky's lectures.
Join a study group, get some friends together, just figure out some way to divide up the readings so that you're not doing hundreds of pages each week. Once that situation is figured out, you'll be able to enjoy the rest of the course, which is brilliantly taught and really interesting.
Gov 20 is a disappointing class. The readings are really well selected, and you will learn a lot from them. But you will not learn much from anywhere else. There is just a complete lack of rigor in this class. The exams usually demand rote memorization of certain terms. Sections are mostly useless. And there is just not much to the class outside of that. Levitsky's lectures are indeed usually interesting, and his explanations usually stick to you. But their subject is an unorganized mess. This class is nothing more than a patchwork of vaguely related subjects. There is no logical order connecting the lectures. There is very little worry about scientific rigor. Don't be deceived by the "Foundations of Comparative Politics" title; this course never tells you what comparative politics is, what its main objectives are, or what are the main techniques used in comparative politics research. You will definitely learn something from this course, but the final experience is very disappointing. If you are considering to take this class, I would strongly advise you to consider taking some other class instead; there are better learning opportunities in Harvard.
This class demands a lot of reading, so prepare for that. Also, Levitsky is a great lecturer!
Be prepared to dedicate many hours to reading. The readings are neither short, nor are they particularly easy; they are also very theoretical, for the most part. If you're willing to work hard, though, this might be one of your most rewarding classes you take at Harvard. The course material is fascinating, and lectures are incredibly engaging. You'll be amazed by the knowledge that you take away from this course. Having said this, you should only take the course if Dr. Levitsky is teaching it. He is the reason why this course is incredible.
Everyone will say there is a ton of reading (which there is), but as long as you approach it strategically and actually attach to it the class does not end up being as hard as the readings make it seem.
yo dawg i herd u like not doing any readings so i put levitsky in this class so you can take it without reading the readings.
Please form study groups so that you don't drown in readings!
I loved this class. It is so relevant and worth taking for students of any interest. While there is an enormous amount of reading, it is worth the time spent. Levitsky is amazing.
take it, but know how to read for an argument rather than reading every word
This class is hit or miss. Define terms as you go along. Review old final exams for the midterm and final. Get in a study group on the FIRST day. Care about the material. Meet with your TF and Levitsky at the start. Don't let the other over eager freshmen scare you. Start writing the essays (and sending outlines) to your TF as soon as you get it.
Gov 20 is a great class and I definitely recommend it. Beware that the course has two huge course packs, which means a ton of reading every week. That said, you will learn an insane amount about political systems, economic development, democracy, ethnic conflict and revolution on a worldwide scale. If you are willing to put forth the time and effort for the class, you'll definitely get out of it what you put in. Levitsky is an incredible professor and excellent lecturer and I definitely recommend getting to know him.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Levitsky is an incredible lecturer, the readings are very interesting (even if you just skim them), the assignments are kind of fun, and the TFs are incredibly supportive. If at all possible, get Tae-Yeoun's section.
This course is an amazing course. The material is constantly interesting and you will never get bored if you have any interest in global issues. Besides, Levitsky is one of the best lectures at Harvard, and his lecture style is very comprehendible. I loved this class, and I strongly recommend it to everyone who is willing to work hard and learn about the political and social mechanisms that make up for our world.
The course is incredible. Although there is a lot of reading, it is all interesting and applicable to the course, but not all of it is necessary to read to get a lot out of the course. Within each week, there are a couple of significant readings that contain the major theories and concepts, and then several case studies that apply the theories to specific regions of the world. The lectures are extremely informative and helpful in drawing your attention to the major authors to focus on. They are also fascinating and definitely something you do not want to miss. As a perfect complement to the lectures, there are sections that are well-run and promote further discussion of the topics covered in lecture. They offer you the chance to engage in a small section and debate/discuss the major ideas so you can help to understand them further.
The reading for this course is very, very heavy, but the lectures are engaging and the subject matter is pretty interesting
A lot of reading that is not entirely necessary. It is a good class and the readings are good. However, it is not possible to read them all. Also, for better or for worse, reading all of the readings wont help you more than someone who just knows what each author's argument is.
THIS IS THE BEST CLASS EVER. The lectures are so engrossing, so go to them! Both the theories and cases we study are super interesting. Levitsky is a great guy and truly cares about how the students like the course. The readings may seem daunting, but they really don't all have to be read. You get most of the info you need from lecture.
The reading is tough, but really important to understanding the course. You can do it, but it will not be easy. Really make use of the TFs and Levitsky. They have a lot of good insight and can help you guide your thinking.
A lot of reading. Forming study groups helps. It's really important to attend lectures as Professor Levitsky explains the material really well.
Loved this class. Slid workout, but very interesting. Levitsky is great.
This class is fantastic, and an amazing way to learn A LOT about the world in a short period of time. Jennifer is a GREAT TF. Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer.
It's a great introduction to comparative politics, a lot of reading but the material and the lectured are interesting enough to be worth it.
This is an amazing class. It's a great foundation to any concentration having to do with the world around you. Levitsky will send chills down your back once or twice during the semester. Stay until the end for the final lecture.
If you're considering a government concentration or if you just are exploring, this is an amazing class to take. The lectures are phenomenal and the TF's are some of the best grad students in their specialized fieldvery knowledgable and able to give various perspectives. Just make sure that Professor Levitsky is teaching it!
Very interesting concepts and great lecturing from Levitsky.  This course made me want to concentrate in government.
The best class I have taken at Harvard
Levitsky is an amazing professor. His lectures are well worth the long readings.
Levitsky's lectures are amazing - worth taking the course just for those. Reading is an unbelievable amount, but manageable if you stay on top of it.
Levitsky always says that if you want to change the world, you need to know something about the world. And that is what he teaches you in the class. It does have a lot of reading, but it is definitely worth it. Levitsky is one of the best lecturers I've ever had. You will learn so so much in this class.
This is a really amazing course.  It gives you so many different tools to approach the problems of the world and is a great introduction to the world of comparative politics.
Levitsky is fantastic, and you should take this course mainly for the lectures. Also, be sure to get into a reliable study group - reading is heavy!
Freshmen, do not be intimidated by this class! It provides an important foundation for those who want to be a government concentrator or have a better global perspective. Upperclassmen government concentrators, if you have not already taken this class, then take it! It has a straightforward format and helps to fill in any major informational gaps in your comparative government knowledge.
Be prepared to a lot of reading.
Interesting, but it requires a lot of time for reading. Be ready to spend many hours a week for this course.
Levitsky is a terrific lecturer and the material and subjects are fascinating.  Lots of reading, but it's manageable in a study group.  But still do the reading if you can!  Great, fundamental authors to comparative politics.
Lot of readings, make sure you're interested in comparative politics.
This class is a lot of reading. Form study groups to deal with the readings, and go to lecture.  Levitsky is a great lecturer, and your will understand the readings you miss if you go and pay attention.
Don't let the readings scare you!!! This course will make you a better thinker, will enable you to understand more about the world around you (thus, the world you live in), and will make you a more well-rounded individual. Find people to discuss the material with, form a study group, and engage with the different arguments.
it's a rewarding class taught by a brilliant professor
A great introduction to comparative politics. However, it is a lot of work, and if you are not interested in the material then it might not be the best experience. If you are, however, it's great.
Read as much of the book as you can every week and watch the lectures online if you dont go. It makes tests and essays so much easier.
It is reading-intensive but worth the effort.
If you are going to take any intro course, this should be it!
It takes way too much work
Take.  This.  Course.  What an amazing overview to comparative politics.  I am a gov concentrator and this is one of the best if not BEST course I have taken.  Levitsky is an unbelievable professor that everyone should get to have.  This course has a fair bit of reading but I didn't do all of it and still loved it/ did fine.  It's also fun to take as an upperclassmen because it is less intimidating.  That being said, great class to take a freshman because it is really geared to help freshmen out.  In short, please take it.
The professor is incredible and the material is interesting
Levitsky is the man. his lectures are amazing. the course material is interesting and relevant. great course. there is a lot of reading but the course is more interesting if you actually do the reading
Good for government concentration, good groundwork, but very dense and broad.
Though there is a TON of reading, this course is one that will change your perspective of the world. I know, that sounds corny, but I honestly believe its true. Make sure to get a study group so you can split up the readings and make them more do-able, as well as start your papers early and go to your TF's office hours to make sure your structure is acceptable. Great course, overall, and one that has changed my college career.
This class can be tough and there's a ton of reading, but it provides a serious background in comparative politics and teaches you the major theories and theses held by the major academics in each field of comparative politics.
Take this class as a freshman because I took it as a sophomore, and did not put as much time into it as I would have had I taken it as a freshman. Also, taking it as a freshman will prepare you for upper level gov classes. The only difference is that gov 20 is a huge class. There is a lot of reading, but you don't have to do it all. The TFs will tell you this as well. The lectures are pretty objective except for the final lectures about welfare and Iraq. Levitsky likes to make conservative jokes, just ignore them and you will get a lot out of the class.
This is an excellent introduction to government. It's content can easily supplement most concentrations in the humanities.
Professor Levitsky is an AMAZING professor and, if he is teaching this course, TAKE IT. There is a lot of reading, but it isn't necessary to read for details, it is just important to take away the main conclusions, so do not let that intimidate you.
Definitely take the class, but prepared to deal with a lot of reading. The material is very interesting, and actually applicable; in everyday life when talking about politics and world issues I realize that some of my comments come directly from things I learned in Gov 20. I really enjoyed it!
Good course, and the lectures by Levitsky are great. However, the real pedagogical value is in the course readings. If you're taking this to learn more about the field, just get the course pack from the Coop and read through it.
The readings. Those damn readings.
Be prepared to be in with the pack of wolves. Meaning, some students will do no work at all and then cram using old study guides and by swapping long lists of authors and terms. Therefore, if you are ACTUALLY interested in the material, you may not be satisfied when students who do no reading at all do well. Huge discrepancy between sections.
With Levitsky lecturing, this class is fantastic. It is one of the few courses that has changed the way I see the world.
Levitzky is a great lecturer and the course material is interesting and wide-scoped - a great course not only for prospective government concentrators but also for anyone who want to achieve a better understanding of the complex highly political world we live in.
This class is an excellent introduction to comparative politics.  Professor Levitsky is a very engaging lecturer and goes out of his way to be approachable.  My TF was also very helpful.  However, the readings are brutal.  It is very helpful to form a study group and split up the readings and/or learn how to skim.
This course is an introductory course. Keep in mind that it will focus on breadth rather than depth.
This course, when taught by Levitsky, is very entertaining and you feel like you learn a lot.  Often times at Harvard I leave a class feeling like I learned a lot of random information, but this course really makes you think about the world and provides you with knowledge that is applicable.  Be ready for a lot of reading, often times feeling unprepared for section or essays or even exams, but to be entertained and engaged
This class is not for the faint of heart. The material is very interesting but can be pretty dense at times. I sometimes felt that we learned so many theories and concepts in such little time that it was hard to stay on top of the readings and material. The class is not easy in my opinion but I enjoyed the challenge and I always felt like I learned something interesting in lectures. This class truly expanded my knowledge about economic development, social revolutions, democratization, and ethnic conflict. I'm glad that I took the class.
Don't be scared off by everyone saying there are a lot of readings. If your form a study group, the reading is completely manageable. Also, as the course progresses the readings become longer. Levitsky's lectures are AMAZING and it's wonderful to be taught by a passionate teacher. If you're unsure just shop it and you're guaranteed to want to stay.
Great lectures, but so much reading. Don't take this course if you don't want to read 200 pages a week of rather droll material.
Get in study groups to divide and conquer the readings. Don't be too proud and untrusting to do all the work yourself.
Levitsky gives you a crash course in Comparative Politics like you won't get anywhere else.
Levitsky is an excellent lecturer and he builds an easy to follow and interesting narrative.  Papers are fine, section is section, and the exams are unsurprising.  The readings are lengthy and helpful, but of questionable necessity, but if you're at all interested in the material I would strongly recommend this course.
Be ready to read!
Do not take this as a fifth course. Also, do not allow yourself to get behind because once you get a week or two behind, it's very difficult to conceptually catch up in the course. Lectures are extremely interesting though, and I would recommend taking the class, but it is not something that should not be approached with an attitude of nonchalance.
There is a lot of reading. DO NOT underestimate the time that it will take you to complete it all. And please do read it all! Class makes so much more sense when you do.  And tests are so much easier.
The reading is extensive and you should come up with a strategy right from the beginning. Also, participate heavily in section as it will pay off in the end.
It's challenging, but if you approach it with some enthusiasm for the subject material it will be worth your while!
Take it if you are an upperclassmen but as a freshman, it is just abusive and tiring.
This is the best class i have taken at Harvard, hands down, no question, so good.  Lots of reading but its actually interesting, relevant to the world, Levitsky is the best, if he's not teaching it, wait a learn, he is a must, so interesting, so smart. This course is soooo good, take it take it take it.  Go to lecture, form a good study group, participate in section.  Get as much out of this as you can, its wonderful.
Be prepared to read a lot.
This is one of those classes that everyone should take.  Levitsky's lectures are brilliant and inspiring.  The readings, even while they may often seem like common sense expanded into a gigantic time sink, are certainly something that everyone should know, whatever way they learn them.
Good section and lectures are amazing. Be sure to do the reading and take notes on it so getting evidence for papers is easier later. Personally, I would read after lecture so I knew what all the readings were getting at but that's also because I had section after all the lectures...
Steve Levitsky is one of the most incredible and dynamic lecturers I've had at Harvard. He does a great job of conveying, explaining, and satirizing the information, keeping lectures exciting and interesting. A lot of people complain about the amount of reading, but your TFs do a good job of letting you know which ones are most important, and Professor Levitsky himself generally reviews the main ideas of the readings during lecture in the context of case studies. Definitely recommend to any current or potential Government Concentrator, this is an amazing course!
The pain is worth it, because you actually learn so much information that any educated person needs to know. It is relevant and interesting material. Oh, and study guides will save your life.
Gov 20 is an extremely rewarding class- Professor Levitsky is quite simply amazing. His lectures were stimulating and engaging- never felt like falling asleep once during lecture. Yes there is a lot of reading, but the course teaches you how to read effectively- and that does not entail reading each line word for word.
I would be hard pressed to find a more compelling lecturer than Steven Levitsky. Yes, the class is by no means an "easy A", but it is by all means worthwhile. The insight this course provides you will prove inessential in the modern, globalised world. This should be MANDATORY before graduation.Do be warned, though, the freshman-filled Q&A does at times irk upperclassmen lecture-goers.
Levitsky makes comparative politics very captivating, it's an exciting way to learn more about various governments in the world.
If you want to become more informed about the world, and why events are taking place take this course.
Levitsky is an excellent professor. The lectures are very engaging and often funny. There is a considerable amount of reading that you generally can't do on your own; form a study group to split up the weekly readings! As long as you are prepared to commit a fair amount of time to the readings you will get a lot out of the course.
The course is solid. But it wasn't for me. So shop this course and determine whether you like it.
Don't miss lecture! They're absolutely packed with information. There is a lot of reading, but some TFs give out concept maps with the main points on them: if your TF doesnt, make friends with someone whose TF does.
Even non-gov majors will find this class fascinating
This class is an excellent introduction into political science.  It has a nice balance of theory and case study, and by the end you have a good understanding of the main underlying theories, as well as an understanding of many of the conflicts and contentious political systems throughout the world.  Still, if you have no interest in politics, it's too much of a commitment to be an exploratory class.
Take this class with Levitsky because his lectures are phenomenal.  The hour of lecture routinely went by so fast that the end sometimes caught me by surprise.  The class will inspire you to take a deeper interest in political theory.  If you aren't drawn in from the outset, the readings will be tedious, but you owe it to yourself to at least shop this class.
A course with Professor Levitsky is a must for not only every government concentrator but for every Harvard student! He makes every topic interesting and engaging with witty metaphors that keep the audience constantly engaged and delighted with the content of the course.
No matter what your concentration is, you should take this course! Professor Levitsky is an amazing, interesting and funny lecturer and really makes the material understandable. I've heard that TFs can vary, but mine was great and added to my understanding and interest in the topics. There is a lot of reading, which is important in order to get the most out of the course, but it's possible to get through without doing a lot of it. The assignments are pretty manageable and they're very transparent about what's on the midterm. Overall this was one of the best courses I've taken and it sparked a my interest in studying government.
Take this class! Do NOT shy away from this class because you've heard it has too much reading! You can absolutely get by without doing all the readings, and the lectures/subject material are more than worth it. Make sure you take the class with Levitsky; he's just as amazing as everyone says and will make you want to concentrate in Gov or just go out there and change the world! If you have any interest at all in the way the world works, take this class. You won't regret it.
Gov 20 is a good introductory course for students who want to learn how to efficiently read for college and write argumentative papers and source many authors. Aside from learning about the influences which yield different political situations in other countries, someone can expect to be more prepared in approaching academic reading and writing from this class. Also, Professor Levitsky is awesome and has never given a boring lecture!
Study group
I can't recommend this class highly enough. There is a lot of reading, but if you find a good way to manage it (either with a study group or otherwise), this is an incredibly rewarding and enjoyable class.
if you can handle the readings, it is a very good course.
This class is an unbelievable amount of work; however, it is easily the best class I have taken at Harvard. Levitsky is an unbelievable professor who makes the work load absolutely worth it.
The readings are a bit overwhelming but they are very interesting. Get a study group! Learn to skim! For essays: prepare by reading the material or be sure to listen to the lectures very well! You might not read all of the readings no matter how you try, but do go to the lectures!!
This is a good class, but I feel like students see it as a "default" government class - as in, "if you don't know what to take, take Gov 20." However, I feel like this class would be especially helpful for those planing on focusing on comparative politics, specifically. As someone interested in American politics, much of this course was interesting, but not especially relevant. It was a good class, but you only have 32 classes, and I'm not sure this was the best allocation of one of them. All of that said, if you have a spot open that you need to fill (and you don't mind big lectures), this is pretty interesting material.
Be prepared to work hard in this course (there is a lot to read). The lectures are great and a lot of the reading is interesting. You will learn a ton in this class. It was an enjoyable class even though there was a lot of work.
Levitsky's lectures are intensely interesting, and don't let the reading overwhelm you.
Professor Levitsky is a skilled lecturer and a real, genuine teacher.
It's great! Levitsky's an amazing lecturer and if you're lucky and have a great TF you will have an amazing time. Just be wary of the amount of reading. LOTS.
Professor Levitsky is easily the best lecturer that I have ever had. He generates so much enthusiasm for the course material, and really condenses all of the readings' main points into a lucid lecture.
Great class. Levitsky is an amazing lecturer and section helps to make the immense reading manageable
This class is a great course to take for students just getting into the government concentration because it covers a wide variety of topics and approaches.  It is very interesting if one likes the subject matter.
Make a damn study group or you will just die under all the readings.
Definitely recommend it but form a study group to split up the readings.
Gov 20 is definitely one of the most challenging yet interesting intro courses at Harvard. Levitsky is by far among the best lecturers, and his lectures are incredibly engaging. Definitely take this course if you're interested in comparative politics/international affairs!
Make a study group! Study a lot! Stay on top of the readings!
If you split up readings, make sure you get together to explain the general ideas to one another, and actually read the notes your study partners took.
This is one of those classes you HAVE TO take at Harvard. Levitsky is one of the best lecture there is in this school, and the materials of the class make you so much more informed about the world.Gov 20 is not as difficult as people say it is. You don't have to do all the readings in details because they won't be tested too rigorously in exams. However, it is strongly advisable that you do them all, just because they are so interesting. Make sure you keep track of your readings though (I note down the main points of every single reading I have gone through)It is fairly easy to get A's on the papers and on the exams if you have taken Expos and/or another Gov class.
Join a study group! It will be so helpful to you for understanding the readings if others have summarized those that you can only skim and gives you a chance to get to know one or two readings very well each week.
this class is an amazing introduction to global comparative politics! fascinating, intriguing, excitingnever a dull moment in lecture
This was, without a doubt, the best course I have ever taken. LEVITSKY IS AMAZING! Seriously, he is such a great lecturer. The readings are really overwhelming and will scare you at first, but if you form a good study group, it will not be that bad. I learned more than I thought possible from just one course. This course should be a requirement; the topics covered are so important and contemporary. If you really want to have an impact in this world, it is essential you know and understand them.
Lectures are awesome, section is great for synthesizing the week's worth of readings and lectures, readings are interesting for the most part.
The topics are very important, but the reading was quite difficult and often made section difficult as often students had not read the reading.
Take this class. especially with Professor Levitsky
This class is absolutely incredible. Levitsky is a brilliant lecturer, the readings are enlightening, and section is very helpful. Coming to class makes this class manageable.
Everything -Levitsky, the material, and Evann- is awesome. You can't not take it.
Take Gov 20. Although quite a few people complain about (or don't do) the reading, it's really quite manageable, and you can get a lot out of it. You'll learn a lot about how to think about the world and why things are the way they are.
Professor Levitsky's lectures are simply fantastic! It's a very large class though and its almost impossible to do all the readings.
Prof. Levitsky gives great lectures that are funny and engrossing.  The subject matter is diverse and fascinating.  Neither lecture nor readings will give you any definitive answers as to how to build a stable democracy (for example), but you get the chance to write two interesting papers on what would be your proscriptions if you choose your prompts right.  A lot of reading but I split it quite manageably with one other person, with the both of us writing reviews of the reading.
It's a strong class but the work becomes very tedious to the point that you feel you could be taking a more constructive course.
This is an excellent class that I recommend to people of all backgrounds (not just government concentrators). Levitsky is an awesome lecturer and my TF was awesome. The best part about this class is that it covers so many regions of the world. You can also take a lot of the terms from the class (such as Mancur Olsen's free rider problem) and take them out of a gov context and apply them to your life. Although there is a lot of reading, Levitsky goes over it well in lecture and if you are in a study group/have a study guide you can minimize the amount you have to read. If you are interested at all in other regions of the world or have any interest in comparative politics, you should definitely shop this class (and probably take it).
Class is great! TAKE IT but make sure you get a good TF who will grade you fairly...trust me they all don't...Class is so so interesting. Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer and the theories that you read are all amazing...even though you will not even read 1/3 of them...too too much reading...would be an even better class if he cut it in half.
This class provides a really good way to get a sense of how the world works; you learn about topics that have a great deal of relevance to current and historical events, like economic development, social revolution, ethnic conflict, and democratization.  Levitsky is a phenomenal instructor, as well.  He has a nice sense of humor and does a great job making lectures clear and interesting, and I could see the class being considerably less awesome with a different professor.
You have heard about the colossal course pack. You have heard about the legendary lion that is Levitsky. I suggest you take this course. Among the finest courses I've taken at Harvard, Gov 20 manages to synthesize centuries of comparative political thought into a semester that is anchored by Levitsky's astoundingly engaging lectures. Yes, the readings are tiresome, but they are often not requisite for general comprehension of the trends in the course. Gov 20 has given me not just a huge amount of information, but also great insight into how we envisage the world.
Gov 20 is an extremely fascinating course that forces students to think about the world's most complex and pressing issues from economic development in peripheral countries to ethnic conflict. Professor Levitsky is outstanding -- his lectures are truly amazing.  The course teaches you so much about the world and makes you think about how you can make it a better place and for these reasons it is worth it.  However, the key drawback is the overwhelming amount of reading.  In all, although it was my most stressful and challenging course this semester, I also found it to be my most rewarding.
This is an excellent class! I learned about nearly every major center of influence in the field of comparative government. It is a broad course, but I would recommend it to everyone - concentrators and non-concentrators alike.
This is a great course, but the only thing I would warn students about is the amount of reading.
It's a ton of work but between the amazing professor and the interesting course material it is worth it.
Solid course.  It is a lot of reading, but is very much worth taking.
This is a really great class! You learn a ton about Government, different countries, and is a great intro government class. Make sure you like your section leader or else switch. Avoid Sana as a leader if you can. Levitsky's lectures are some of the best at Harvard and it is more rewarding to go to lecture than to skip and watch it. He is really accessible as well - actually tries to get to know kids, does lunches, and responds to email. Try to get to know him. The readings really help if you do them so start a study guide early on. In your notes, have long outlines of the readings and then make short summaries of them (like a paragraph). Define the key terms every week at the end of the week and that will put you ahead of the curve. TAKE THIS CLASS.
This class an incredible amount of reading, but the class is definitely well worth it. I loved going to lectures, and I felt like my world definitely expanded.
Levitsky is great and the material covered is interesting, but be prepared for a LOT of reading, even on weeks when your papers are due.
The course was pretty disorganized and I felt like I got significantly hurt on my paper grade for volunteering to change sections in the middle of the semester, as my TF gave me advice that the person who graded my paper took points off for.
Professor Levitsky is a great lecturer. This is a fun class if you are the type of person who always goes to lecture, but I can imagine it would be rather boring if you only did the readings and went to lecture.  Be prepared to spend a lot of time reading and plan to make a study group to discuss the readings; there are so many that you are unlikely to be able to read them all well or to read them all at all.
Take this class! You learn an incredible amount in just one semester from one of Harvard's best professors. Every lecture was lively and engaging. My section leader was also great at helping our section synthesize the readings from that week. Be prepared for a TON of reading, but if you form a study group, all should be manageable.
lots of reading
I wouldn't recommend freshmen take this course unless you already have friends to build a study group and split the readings with. There is no way that you'll be able to do all the readings alone. Make sure these people are trustworthy because you won't have time to stress out about someone not pulling their weight.
It is a wonderful class and Professor Levitsky's lectures are engaging. The subject matter is important for students to understand. However, there is a lot of reading.
Professor Levitsky is an excellent lecturer and the course material is very comprehensive. The workload is a bit overwhelming but as long as you have a study group it should be fine. A great intro gov class.
This course will change the way you think about the world.
It is an extremely interesting and valuable class.  It just gives you good general information that you should know in order to be an informed citizen and an interesting dinner guest.   The readings can be a lot but just join a study group and split them.  You only really need their main ideas and the paper and midterm are greatly very fairly.
If government really does interest you, then this is a great course. Don't take it just to fulfill a requirement (unless, of course, you're a gov major), though. It's interesting and enjoyable as long as you care about what you're learning.
Levitsky is a great lecturer and the course material is extremely interesting.  A must-take course for anyone with an interest in government and international affairs.
Lots of reading; the lectures are the best part
Don't let the supposedly mammoth amount of reading scare you, but do not get excited about learning truths about the world.
Read fast and try to break the rules to talk to your TF more than permitted.
Despite its difficulty because of its harsh grading and its substantial amount of reading, I would recommend this class without any reservations. This is one of those classes at Harvard that changes you and prepares you to be able to engage in current event dialogues like those events occurring in the Arab Spring. There are some classes, and I am being completely honest, that you won't care how you did in terms of the grade because you received so much transferable skills and knowledge, and this class is indisputably one of them. TAKE IT!!!
Levitsky is an amazing lecturer.
This class is rewarding if you are willing to put in quite a bit of work in terms of reading/writing.
Going to lectures isn't really important because the power points have very detailed notes, reference the readings they come from, and the sections do a good job of summarizing everything. The paper prompts also tell you what readings to use for each questionn...
make sure you are satisfied with the section. don't take it with fujihara. make sure you have a solid background in politics.
Honestly, this class is too unorganized to actually help you learn much of anything. Take a smaller gov seminar and perhaps you will actually walk away with some solid information.
Best class I've taken to date.
Absurd amount of reading. The lectures are moderately interesting but there is so much information that it gets very difficult to follow if you miss one sentence. Sometimes confusing because we are learning concepts through case studies, but it is sometimes hard to really understand/remember if you don't know the whole history of a country and only get a chunk of information that is relevant to the concept.
I took this class as an elective and found that the class is too concerned with categorizing countries according to theories than examining more interesting issues in comparative politics. It gives a good exposure to the field of government, but was ultimately not very exciting and you can learn most of it just by skimming the sources/Wikipedia for a day.
Get in a study group ASAP because the amount of readings is overwhelming. And make sure you do the readings and understand the concepts because they will be on the final. You will learn a lot however about comparative politics, and the case studies (except Nigeria) were really interesting.
The readings are too long to do individually and take meticulous notes.
Do not take this course.  Simply skimming some of the materials provided will yield the same comprehension of comparative politics.  No one can possibly read and fully grasp all the information provided, so both section leader and student maintain this facade that everybody understands the topic each week.
Be prepared to read. Actually. I'm not joking.
There is a lot of reading, and you basically have to teach yourself
This is a good class to learn a lot from the readings, but the professor and overall direction of the class was lacking. Maybe wait until Levitsky comes back and give him a shot instead.
IT IS SOOOOOO MUCH READING! That being said, it really is a great course.  It gives you a strong understanding of comparative politics.  Take it if you want but know what you're getting into. MAKE A STUDY GROUP! Seriously, first day!!!
The topics covered in this course are so relevant, and the readings we do are readings I am glad I have read.  I feel much more connected and knowledgeable about the world.
Definitely not my favorite course.  40 was a lot better.  The readings are dense and long and theory-heavy, and there are far too many overeager freshmen.
This is a good way to complete a requirement for the Gov concentration while simultaneously fulfilling a Gen Ed
Lectures are clear but dry. The course gives good basis for understanding in comparative politics, but doesn't foster enthusiasm for the subject matter.
A wonderful general overview of world politics! Reminds you of how strong Harvard's Government department is - many of the readings were written by Harvard professors.
If you invest yourself and engage with the course you will get a lot out of it and will have a broader framework with which to understand political systems and regimes around the world.  However, prepare yourself for a ton of reading.
Very interesting but too much reading, somewhat unengaging lectures.
Stay on top of the readings: know what the main arguments are, but do not waste your time reading every word.
It's a ton of work, but you also learn a ton if you're up for it.
It's a lot of reading and lecture gets to be a drag, but the material is really interesting. The course is frustrating, though, because no one ever concludes or solves anything.
Heavy workload and two important essays that are essentially guesswork
The course is fast-paced and it may be difficult to keep up with the readings if you do not already have some previous knowledge of the material.
It gives you a good knowledge of global governmental structures and history.
This class is probably more inclined to the govenment concentrator and not as much to the student who would like to try government but has not had much prior experience in political science.
I would definitely recommend students to form study groups and keep up with the readings. It is a good introductory course to global politics.
a lot of reading!! form a study group!!
Form study groups to circumvent endless hours of reading.
This course is a great introduction to comparative politics, as it covers some political theory and case studies of specific countries. It is, however, a lot of material and there's a large amount of reading. I would recommend this course if you predict that you will be interested in reading 100 pages on one country for each class, but if not, you may not enjoy it. Professor Fujihira, however, does present good lectures, incorporating jokes and videos into the Powerpoints.
do the reading
Yes, the work load in terms of reading seems crazy (c. 8 articles a week, every week), but it is definitely worth it if you actually do it. This is a great course to take if you're not sure if you want to concentrate/ do a secondary in government both as a foundation and test of your interest; it will certainly leave you with a different perspective on political theory and the regimes all around us.
Join a study group, even if you think you can do all of the readings by yourself. It's helpful to have outlines of all the texts before section or a paper.
You'll have to work hard to understand/keep up with the huge amount of reading
Only 2 papers and a final, so everything counts towards your final grade. Lots of reading every week (>100 pages of articles), but section is amazing and is often both engaging and interesting. Prof Fujihira really knows his stuff and is hilarious in lectures. Definitely my favorite course in fall of freshman year.
The readings are ridiculous. Form a study group and hold your coworkers to their responsibilities, and you'll be fine.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading.
The questions posed by this class are very interesting, but one gets the general impression that very little is known about the answers.  I found the course not all that informative as a result, although this appears to be not the fault of the teachers.  The TFs are very good and can be supportive (though you must make contact on your own initiative; they don't generally reach out unprompted) and section discussions can be quite interesting.  Recommended if one enjoys political discussion with lots of hypotheticals; otherwise there are much easier gen eds that will cover the requirement just as well.
There is a lot of reading but the information presented, when studied, is very interesting and the sections and lectures are both engaging and enlightening.
Get in a study group immediately.  Otherwise, you won't finish all the reading.  The class is also fairly boring.  So, choose a different intro course unless you absolutely have to take this.
A lot of reading but you really do learn a lot of information.
A lot of work and large time commitment but very interesting and somewhat rewarding.
You have to be genuinely in politics because you are expected to read a lot of highly theoretical essays which might not be so engaging.
Make sure you read those readings.
Cool course. If you're interested in Gov definitely one to take. Not hard to do well in the class without doing a lot of work. STUDY GROUPS ARE KEY. And you still learn it all in the end. Not a lot of work so that's good.
Reading hundreds of pages of low-quality .pdf scans on a laptop is going to give you a migraine. Organization not well suited to an introductory course. If you put the effort in, though, you'll learn a lot of theory.
There are a lot of readings, but the class is worth it.
lots of reading, Shin is funny lecturer never gets through his material though so lecture is not that useful.
The course material is interesting and relevant to other facets of life.
If you enjoy comparative politics and do not mind reading alot, this course may be good for you, although it is different this is our Professor's first year teaching the course, and evaluations from other years may not apply because of the courses different teaching/structure.
Not very well organized or well put together course. Very confusing to the students.
This is a fairly difficult class: the essays are pretty tough and there is a lot of reading. However, the work is worth it in the end. It will introduce you to looking at politics analytically and comparatively, which will start to shift the way you view the news and events around the world.
After shopping the class with Levitsky and reading over study guides from his format, definitely wait to take it with him. If you can't, choose another Gov course.
I enjoyed how this course gave me a new perspective on world politics. Furthermore, I would recommend this course because it piqued my interest in development and modernization, as well.
This course will present you with many interesting theories of examining and thinking about democracy, authoritarianism, etc. There will be a lot of reading, but the TF will indicate the most important pieces. The TFs are in general very helpful and very knowledgeable. There is a significant historical component, which helps place the events in order and thus to understand them. In taking this course, be ready to dedicate time to it - it is necessary and it is worth it.
Its a lot of reading but thoroughly enjoyable and you learn a phenomenal amount
I heard this class is great with Levitsky teaching it, but otherwise don't take it
Involves a lot of reading, so be prepared. It is better to form a study group with friends, so that it is easier to get through the week's reading and the final exam studying.
Requires a great deal of time to finish readings
GOV 20 was a good course to take freshman year. It gave a good foundation for better understanding the world of international relations and the reasons or possible explanations for various political phenomena. Interesting readings, good section discussion.This class is quite broad/not very centered towards a specific element of Gov so can be a good class to take if you're considering exploring the Gov major.
Wait for the other lecturer to come back. It is hard to understand this lecturer.
It's an interesting class, but it's a lot of reading. Make sure that you're prepared for that. I hear that study groups are really helpful.  That way each person could outline a few readings for the group and everyone can stay on top of the reading load.
This tends to be the class to take for freshman interested in Government, but there are many other options for subfield credit and comparative politics.  While this class is interesting, it is a sweeping view of many cases, so if you are looking for something a little more focused, I would probably look elsewhere.
a lot of reading, very conceptual and speculative, however good exposure to different countries and societies
You may feel like you need to take this course for a Gov concentration, but I have been told that you can meet your requirements without it. So don't take unless you are very interested in theories of international relations.
There is a lot of reading that you need to keep on top of, but it is an interesting class and the sections are wonderful.
I would tell them that the lectures were awesome, always interesting and easy to follow. I would also tell them that the professor went out of his way to be available either through office hours or weekly planned lunches with his students.
The class is a great way to learn about the world.
Please, take Gov 20 before you die.
This class is very interesting and informative, but if you take it, be prepared to read!
Do not be intimidated by the heavy reading load because you probably will not  end up actually reading half of the stuff. The class is interesting, the lectures are great, and you will learn to like political science literature.
Very good and interesting with a great professor, but there is A LOT of reading.
If you're not a gov concentrator and take one gov class, make it this one. If you are a gov concentrator, don't miss it. You leave the class with a new understanding of international relations and world politics and the knowledge of how states and societies are structured.
take it!  One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  Levitsky is a national treasure.
Get ready for a lot of reading.
Take it; it's interesting and well taught.
This is a great course for anyone considering concentrating in government, as it provides a good introduction to a broad arrange of topics.  The amount of reading can be quite daunting at first, but study groups can help lighten the load.  The lectures are the highlights of this course, so don't miss them!
Levitsky makes you want to go to class. If my TF hadn't been so strict I wouldn't have done all the readings and when exams came I was very happy to be so prepared.
Take this class!
One of my favorite classes, I am very happy I took this class.
be prepared to skim every reading , make study groups
Though the reading list is long, Levitsky as a professor far outweighs any reservations any student should have about taking this class.  It provides a great introduction to political theory and arms its students with the ability to effectively evaluate any aspect of politics.
It's a great class that touches on many interesting topics.
Very interesting but lots of reading.
Make sure you keep up with the assigned readings
It is a very interesting and engaging class, and was my favorite class of this semester. Professor Levitsky is an excellent professor and I look forward to taking more of his classes.
Go to the Prof's office hours!
Its a great class, and you learn a lot, but be prepared to work hard and to read a ton.
I think that a big part of the reason that I liked this class so much was due to Professor Levitsky's lectures.  Knowing that he will not be teaching this class next year, I would be a bit hesitant to give advice to another student about whether or not to take this class.
Interesting, good lectures, a good foundational knowledge of world politics and political theory; heavy reading load
This is one of the most interesting and applicable courses you will ever take at Harvard
This is a fascinating course, which will teach you about government around the world and ways of looking at government.  It is, however, a significant amount of reading.
Lots of readings, (so join a study group), but Levitsky is a really great lecturer
This course involves a lot of reading and is very difficult, but you do learn a lot from it.
it is an interesting way to learn about pretty boring stuff.
Develop a system to learn what is in the reading without reading every word.
If this course's reading were an animal, it would be a pissed-off, rampaging elephant; You can't tame it, you can't slow it down, you can't get on top of it, and if you miss anything, you'll die a painful death.
The class is a fascinating introduction to comparative politics.  There is a great balance of theory and case studies. Although there is a TON of reading, it really helps to form study groups outside of lecture and section in order to discuss the readings.  My study group had 8 people and each week, one of us would send out an email dividing up outline assignments for the readings.  Each Wednesday, we would meet and bring our outlines to discuss.  I would have to present my reading, and then the outlines would help me to better understand the other readings that I may have only just had time to skim.  At the end of the semester, I had an entire packet of outlines that were very beneficial in studying for exams and planning papers.
Be prepared to read, and do not be afraid to ask questions
I listened to this lecture and learned with my hearts. You come to Harvard to take professor Levitsky's class. All the noble prize winners or best-selling authors are--although they are knowledgeable--not necessarily good lecturers. But Professor Levitsky is the person who cares about teaching, and who genuinely teaches you how to think and how to argue. As a student who don't know nothing about Latin America, I seriously consider changing my specialized area to Latin America, just because Professor Levitsky offers other class on that topic. Harvard College should give him a tenure position--losing him will be the biggest mistake for future education of harvard government concentrator.
Even if you don't plan on concentrating in government I feel that a lot of what you learn in the class is applicable to many areas. It helps you become more well versed in what is going on in the world and why.
One of the best introductory courses I have taken at Harvard. Levitsky is a great lecturer. This is a course that all Harvard undergrads should take.
The class is definitely more challenging than it seems, but you learn about so much within one semester- from modernization to democracy to revolutions I feel as though I know have a thorough base in the study of comparative politics.
It is an awesome class and definitely worth taking - the reading load is heavy and something to keep in mind.
This class gives you a good overview of comparative politics, and types of regimes, conflict, and development. There is a lot of reading but if you learn how to skim and compile information, the class is extremely worthwhile.
The lectures are so interesting!! Professor Levitsky is the best and all the TFs are so dynamic and diverse. You really feel like they are reaching out to you, which is rare at Harvard.
It is a great class to take because you will be exposed to new ideas and theories that seem ridiculous at first but are then backed up by case studies.
Take it! Even if you fail it you'll still love it!
The material is Gov20 is really interesting, the lectures are fantastic.
Very interesting material, excellent professor
I would recommend as long as Levitsky was still teaching and if there is an interest in the topic.
There is a lot of reading, but you really will want to do all or most of it since it's crucial to getting anywhere in comparative politics.  Professor Levitsky is insanely approachable, so get to know him.
It's a lot of work, but you learn a lot and it's very interesting, I always looked forward to lectures.
Wait for Levitsky to come back his lectures were awesome.
There's a lot of reading, so make sure to form study groups.
It is very interesting, but there is a lot of reading.
you should really take it; you dont have to do the readings but go to lecture, theyre entertaining and fascinating
Lots of reading, but great lectures.
If you don't have much knowledge of comparative politics, this is a good intro course. As any intro course, the material can be broad at times and covered at a fast-pace.
Although it's really interesting it can be a lot of work, so make sure you're really interested before taking it.
It's very interesting and Prof Levitsy is absolutely terrific, but to do well, you need to do the readings (or at least join a study group).
It is definitely worth taking. The topics are extremely engaging and you will appreciate the subject matter
Great class to learn about international politics
Be prepared to read a lot in a limited amount of time.
lots of reading, the reading is really boring, section is hit or miss
Even if comparative politics isn't your favorite subject, Levitsky makes it both fascinating and relevant. But be prepared for a ton of reading.
You have to want to work hard and be a good test taker.
Come prepared to get on top of the reading early
lots of reading- but interesting material and applicable to current events
do the readings and take advantage of the discussions, papers & office hours; it's worth it every moment spent for this course
It is not necessary to do the readings. You really only need to know a two-sentence summary of the author's view.
Doing the reading is unnecessary.
The professor's awesome!
Pick a different gov class if a broad but superficial knowledge is not preferred to a specific but more in-depth area of knowledge.
Levitsky makes this class the powerhouse that it is. He is very knowledgeable and even more enthusiastic about the course material. This class addresses the big questions in world history that any student would be well to do to know.
The lecture for this class was always worth going to. You always got something out of it.
You will have a great time...just realize that if you want to do well in this class you actually have to do some work.
get a study group
In this class you will gain a strong foundation in comparative politics, as well as have the pleasure of attending lectures from Professor Levitsky. This class offers not only many theories of comparative politics, but also provides many case studies to supplement these theories. However, despite all the positives of this class, there is a lot of reading that is required. This is a good class for people with any interest in government.
The material is important and valuable to have for all students, regardless of concentration.
Great course if you are interested in the subject area. Truly best of its kind, but if you get frustrated by the inexact nature of gov theory, you won't like the course. Also, a fair deal of reading.
You may get more out of this class than many other courses in your sophomore or freshmen year. There is a broad range of topics to catch your interest without boring you too much
It's a big freshman intro course for Gov, which means that you're going to have to deal with a lot of stupid questions and immaturity regarding the assignments. But that's life. The lectures rocked--I learned a lot about the world. Section isn't half bad, it helped me organize all the readings. Quite a good way to fulfill the core for Social Analysis.
The course is great, Professor Levitsky is phenomenal, and you will learn an incredible amount. However, due to the amount of reading required, it would behoove you to form a study group with several other students so that each of you would only have to do a little bit of the reading each week (reading someone else's notes on a reading is perfectly sufficient).
Though the readings are hefty, what you will get out of the class intellectually off-sets the inconvenience of hundreds of pages a week.
This is an excellent course to expand your knowledge on comparative politics and it is very interesting.
I would recommend it to people interested in the subject matter who are willing to work hard.
Get in a study group.
Do the readings, and keep up with them.
The course is a good intrduction to comparative politics that allows you to go in depth enough to sample a variety of topics. However, be prepared to do a lot of reading. You should learn quickly to read quickly and efficiently to get the important points out of the readings.
great if you want to increase your knowledge both about actual historical political events, and about the basic structure of political theory debates; don't underestimate the time necessary for the readings though
Make sure to take initiative in getting to know Levitsky/section leader. They definitely will make themselves available and are more than willing to give you advice/help. You just have to be willing to take the first step
It's a great survey course with a funny, interesting professor. It is, however, one that gives no clear answers about the any of the topics studied. Also, it does require that its students read a good amount each week.
I would like to say that lecture itself was WONDERFUL and I learned a tremendous amount. I was disappointed with the way section was handled in that only the application of theories was promoted and not summarizing the week's readings. I do warn that the reading load is HEAVY and at times tedious, repetitive and unnecessary (though most are necessary).
This is an excellent course.  You will walk away with a wealth of knowledge about how how to approach some of the world's most pressing issues.  Don't be dissuaded by the large amount of reading; instead, make the most of it because it is for the most part excellent.
The professor is engaging and presents the course material in an interesting way. However, you must be prepared to do significant amounts of work outside of class if you wish to do well in the course.
Be prepared to read a lot, but learn a lot too. Great introduction for freshman to Gov.
It's an intense course. It feels like a lot of work sometimes, but in the end, you realize you learn a lot. The professor and TF's are excellent.
Be prepared to read, read and read.
Too much reading- very discouraging
The course is difficult, but was completely doable and was my favorite class to enter Harvard with. Levitsky makes the course excellent, but the material itself is intriguing on its own.
Professor Levitsky is an amazing professor, with fascinating and excellent lectures. He is accessible and very personable. The section leaders were very intelligent, fair, and engaging. Anyone with any interest in comparative politics should take this course.
great course, just a TON of reading
Gov 20 is a challenging course, but is extremely worthwhile to take. While taking Gov 20, I developed a great understanding of comparative politics, and I feel that I have a much better framework with which to interpret current global events.
Very rewarding experience, but learn how to skim effectively! Not all of the readings must absolutely be done.
Take it. Levitsky is the best lecturer at Harvard.
difficult grading, a lot of papers, great lectures, too much reading
Do NOT put off readings. You will get smothered by work.
It is a fair amount of reading, but ultimately a thought-provoking class with good instruction.
There is a lot of coursework, reading, terms and concepts to understand. If considering this class, make certain that you are very interested in the material and topic.
its a lot of reading and you can put in a lot of work but still not get very good grades
It's work, but it's worth it.
Government 20 provides an engaging, stimulating overview of comparative politics and current events. The lectures are interesting and the professor is fantastic--students should be prepared, however, to devote time to reading outside of class. It is essential to plan each weeks readings to fit your schedule; in order to get in every reading before section, make sure you start early and commit to a schedule. It is helpful to develop a chart system for organizing readings--without some sort of summary document, you will be left with endless pages of notes covering many, many authors and articles.
The TFs can be harsh graders and some of Levitsky's lectures, though emphatic, are not very enlightening.
Levitsky's lectures are very interesting and the course material is too. However, the reading load is large.
Great class, good section TFs, magnificent professor, and so much reading that you can pretty much swim in the pages.  Well worth the effort because you learn a lot when you take this course.
Watch out for the reading, it hits you and hits you hard, but the history covered in lecture is relevant not only in understanding the past, but the present and future as well.
Very interesting coursework.
The lectures are wonderful as professor Levitsky is very engaging and knows gives examples that relate to our everyday lives. He's also quite humorous. The sections are also very helpful and fun. However, the reading is the weakness of the class.
The large amount of reading is vast and definitely unenjoyable, but this problem can be circumnavigated by forming study groups. Professor Levitsky makes up for the large amount of reading by providing interesting and energized lectures week in and week out.
It's a decent class, I took it entirely because of Levitsky. You can get most of it and more in other comparative government classes, if his Latin America class fits your schedule take that instead.
If you're not going to concentrate in Gov, this might not be the course for you. You get out of the course what you put in. If you really like the subject and want to delve into the work, you'll do great. Otherwise, this will be a difficult course that you might not enjoy a whole lot.
Best course!  Take it, and you will not be sorry.
I would tell them to be prepared for lots of reading. This is a course where being a part of a study group is most definitely something that you should look into.
If you have any interest in international government things at all, you should take this class. If you're unsure of which parts of comparative politics interest you, this class is a survey of many different areas, so you can focus in on parts of this class that you find particularly interesting.
Take the course when Prof. Levitsky is teaching; keep up with readings; form a study group at least for the midterm and final exams
Very engaging and informative. The lectures are excellent and the topics are interesting, but there is a lot of reading.
Don't get your hopes up too high.  the course material is interesting, but it is presented in a way that you do not necessarily gain much insight from it.
Be prepared to read a lot every week. But it is worthwhile and the course is interesting.
Good intro course. Levistky is great. Lots of reading, but that comes with the territory.
Useful to people who  want to study development
The lectures are amazing, and the class is interesting.  The readings are very dense.  If you ask for help its there for you.
be prepared to read A LOT
i thought the class was hard because the exams were difficult, but it was very rewarding because it was so interesting and taught me a lot.
This class is extremely interesting. The lectures are usually excellent. The material taught is excellent for understanding political outcomes around us.
If you have little patience for theoretical political science, you should not take this class because the reading will be a real chore. Then again, it is pretty easy and you don't have to do all the reading to do well. If you like gov this class is great.
I would recommend the course to those who have knowledge in government and politics.  Without the aforementioned, they will be in for a semester of frustration.
FORM STUDY GROUPS!!! Can't do all the reading. Great lectures! Consider auditing this class!
You should know that comparative politics and government is something you are interested in before you take it.
Really good class for understanding the modern world and how it works politically, economically, and socially.
There is a lot of work involved in this class, but more so than any other at this University it pays dividends to really dedicate oneself to it.
Levitskys lectures are extremely interesting, and after taking this course one really gets a wide understanding of the various approaches to comparative politics, economic development, democratization, revolutions, ethnic conflicts and the Iraq case. Cases from all around the world are studied to understand the different things discussed. There are a lot of readings, which can occasionally be interesting, but is more often too dense and boring. For papers, the midterm and the final, good lecture notes combined with a short study guide of each author and their main ideas is sufficient. No outside research is necessary. I highly recommend it.
A deep interest in history/government is necessary to gain the most from this course.
Only take it if you want to do a lot of reading and are very interested in the subject.
Be ready to read until your eyes bleed. Actually, just get a study group and only read one or two articles a week. You don't need to read everything. If you do, you will go insane. No joke. At all.
There is a lot of reading
This is a great survey course that anyone concentrating in any field would find useful. There is a lot of reading, and the course is really only beneficial if you keep up with the readings every week.
It's a fast-paced lecture class that is tough in that it forces you to keep up with lots of material, with a fast lecture, with a lot of information.
The topic is very interesting if you enjoy state structures and the creation and destruction of different government types.
Make sure that when you take this course that you recognize that it will most likely be the main course of your semester. Do the readings as they come rather than think you can simply catch up when you would like to. Work piles on quickly, so you have to take it bit by bit. Don't be afraid to ask questions, and make sure that you are always taking notes.
I recommend the course mainly because of Levitsky's extremely interesting and engaging lectures and the importance of the course material. However, I would warn them about the heavy reading load.
A friend and I are both hardcore political junkies. He loved the class; I thought that the readings sucked all of the life out of a subject I used to enjoy (Levitsky's lectures put it back, but only briefly). I would advise you to think very seriously about how much you want to know about politics before taking this course, and also how much reading you're willing to do. (Freshmen especially - you'll look at the syllabus and think the reading is manageable. You are wrong.)
Be prepared to read A LOT.  Should also be interested in material, and be aware that this is a survey, intro course not meant to satisfy your deepest intellectual investigations.
If you are relatively new to government, then gov 20 is not for you. This class manages to suck freshman in under the pretense that it is equivalent to the other large freshman intro classes. It is not. If you have adequate background for this class, then you most likely have already suffered through a gov intro course, or have enough grounding to move on to smaller, more advanced courses anyway. This is my buoy: the water may look calm, but beware, there are rocks underneath.
be prepared to be dazzled by Levitsky. Know how to write well coz the first paper will be hard to get a good grade on. Do not take it if Levitsky doesn't teach it-- he is the best guy for the job.
The class is extremely interesting and gives you a new perspective on politics, but there is a lot of reading and you must be willing to put in the effort and do the work.
Levitsky is an amazing lecturer, and the content is interesting.
do not be discourage by the readings. levitsky is amazing
It is a class with moderate reading and it is very interesting.
It's great. Take it.
The class has a lot of reading, but is good for background information in this field.
- You will type very fast to keep up with Professor Levitsky, and when you go over your notes, you'll realize how much you've learned. It's great.
Definitely one of the best classes you can take here at Harvard. Hands down. You will not regret it.
Very interesting class. Amazing lectures that cover very relevant and fascinating topics...but plenty of work. LOTS of reading (and not all of it interesting..most is though). Personally, I wasn't nearly as excited about the class by the time it ended as I was at the start of the semester. Great experience though. Take it if your willing to really work hard. Don't just do it because you hear the lectures are amazing.
Only for those who are genuinely interested in international affairs, but more specifically why they occur.
Good course, well-taught, lots of reading.
This course will bombard you information and change the way you see the world.
There are a LOT of overeager freshmen in this class...
Unless you are very interested in political theories, and are very committed to your interest, dont take the class.
Be prepared to spend a great deal of time reading. At the same time, you can expect a broad and informative experience.
This class has an overwhelming amount of reading: it is difficult to discern the important information, but focusing on what is discussed in section and lecture is important.  Study groups are critical in order to synthesize the readings and keep up with the course.  There is a strong risk of becoming disheartened and lost in this course, but it is possible to overcome with diligence.
It's not worth it. Take something more specific to an area of interest. This introductory class is bullshit.
Do the readings. Period.
Readings are very long and sometimes difficult to understand. Do NOT attempt this class without a study group where you can divide up the readings and share outlines unless you are willing to go a semester without sleep.
There are a lot of readings and it will likely be impossible to get through them all. But, do not adopt and all or nothing attitude. Prof. Levitsky will cover some readings extensively in lecture, so read the ones that he doesn't cover. That way you will get the most extensive overview of course materials. Also, form a study group to study for exams!
Excellent lectures and very interesting material, but the course is poorly structured and executed.
This course provides a great foundation in comparative international politics. A great course for your first term at Harvard - it teaches you to read and study in a reading-intensive course.
the readings are great, not excessive....
Learn to manage your time well and read quickly!
This is an excellent class!
There is a lot of reading and it sort of skims over the topics but if you are interested in international politics it is a good introduction to political theory
I would tell future students that there is a heavy reading load each week, and that it is best to read "strategically." I would also recommend attending lecture because Professor Levitsky is an engaging lecturer.
Levitsky is an amazing lecturer, you gain a great foundation in comparative politics, and the course truly shapes how you view the world.
You should take this class if you are interested in politics.  Go to the first lecture, read the syllabus, and flip through the course pack.  You need to have some interest and enthusiasm going into this course, or you will never get through the reading.  Form a study group!!
This class would have been perfect had the readings been a fairer workload.
Be prepared because it is a difficult class.
You have to really have an interest in government and be willing to do a significant amount of reading.
If you are interested in comparative government this course is fascinating, but if government is not your favorite subject you might want to look at other CORE or general education classes that fill this requirement.
Super interesting, great professor, but a ton of reading!!!
Make sure not to take this class alone. It is much easier to manage if you are taking it with some friends.
Professor Levitsky gives amazing lectures. The reading is also always engaging. It's easy to lose focus of what you're learning in the course, but if you do the readings and go to the lectures, you'll be set up to do well. People are going to complain that there is a lot to read--while it's true that there is much reading to be done, it won't seem that bad if you don't get get caught up in the details.
It is fascinating how the field of political science can explain and even predict political outcomes. Levitsky is an extremely engaging lecturer and the course material is interesting.
The course gives a good overview of the major theories and cases of comparative politics. It's a good foundation for courses in government and other fields, but it isn't necessary to take this course first (as in, I took a handful of other gov courses before I took gov 20). It presents material on a variety of problems facing countries around the world which makes for good intellectual exercise, and Professor Levitsky is an excellent lecturer who can project, keep your attention, and likes to end class on time (all positives!)
Sure, there's a lot of reading. That's a small price to pay for a chance to learn from one of the most inspiring professors that Harvard has to offer. Go ahead and check it out.
Very rewarding and applicable to the real world. Levitsky will inspire and amaze you.
Professor Levitsky is one of the teachers at Harvard who most cares about the art of teaching. He is beyond comparison in lecture and is a teacher that every student deserves the chance to take.
Great class! You'll learn so much - at times it will seem overwhelming, but at the end of all that hard work, you'll know it's worth it. It was just a great experience, sections included. But make sure the professor is good, if Prof. Levitsky isn't teaching it, because it's probably the most important thing - it's the professor that sets the tone and leads the team!
This is an awesome class. The lectures will blow you away--I haven't seen anything like this. The clarity of everything that Prof Levitsky delivers is just amazing. I took this course as a sophomore, and this ended up being my favorite class of the semester.
An excellent way to come into Harvard.
You learn a lot, but the reading is intense. Do not take with another reading-intensive class.
This is an outstanding course, and one of the best that I have ever had at Harvard. Despite the large volume of readings, this course is not overly difficult and Professor Levitsky is OUTSTANDING.
This course was a great introductory course for people interested in foreign affairs. The class was quite difficult however. The coursework is extensive and there is quite a bit of readings. You'll have the chance to analyze political systems around the world in depth in this course. The course will require you to spend time readings the material but it's very worth the while afterwards. I feel like I have gained such a large understanding of the world and political systems. I would definitely recommend this course to any freshmen interested in government.
Wonderful course, too many readings.  Levitsky is the second most interesting teacher/professor I have ever had, and it really comes across in the lectures.  When I started the course, I felt like I was going to dutifully do all of the reading, but that idea was scrapped quickly because of how time-consuming they are.
great opportunity, take it
BE WILLING TO DO THE READING!!!  It's a LOT of reading, and if you don't keep up with it - at a minimum, by forming a study group and at least knowing the authors' arguments and skimming important readings - then the class and section discussions become a lot harder.
If you've ever wondered what leads to democratization, revolution, economic development, or ethnic conflict, you should take this course.
Though it requires a lot of reading and work outside of class, the instruction is excellent and the material is interesting and applicable.
Don't get intimidated by the large amounts of reading! It's a great class taught by probably one of the best lecturers in the college. TAKE IT. You'll be a better person for having taken it.
Fantastic course, fascinating, will broaden your mind and let you critically evaluate current events
great lectures, great introduction into the theoretical nature of government analysis.
There is a lot of reading, like unmanageable amounts. There are two coursepacks full, and you're required to read roughly 100-200 pages a week.
I would tell future students that this class has a lot of interesting and extremely engaging material, but that it emphasizes the quantity of readings over the quality of lectures and sections, and the class experience/structure suffers as a result.  I would not recommend it for people considering concentrating in government, and I think that they should look elsewhere for classes that foster a higher-level critical engagement with material instead of requiring students to digest unmanageable amounts of information each week.
Interesting class that a lot of freshman take who are interested in Gov. Professor is great. Way too much reading, but you don't have to do all of it.
The lectures are great and the material is interesting, but it's a lot of reading.
This class is certainly not easy, but it is incredibly rewarding.  In addition to increasing your general world knowledge, the class helps you to think critically about issues to which answers once seemed given, at least from a western perspective.  The readings are long, but interesting and pertinent.  If you can slough your way through them, the benefits will be great.
A great class for anyone, not only for those interested in government. Levitsky is a great lecturer and his lectures are never boring.
Whether you think you're a capitalist or a communist, you should take this course in order to have your ideas challenged. Professor Levitsky's lectures are fantastic, but an enormous quantity of dense reading is assigned every week, so either join a study group or be prepared to spend long hours curled up with your course pack.
If you like theories and lots of reading this class is for you! If not, find a good study group to split up the readings and get together for extensive discussions to get a firm grasp on the materials.
The class is worth taking, the lectures are great, but it is a lot of reading every week.
Gov 20 gets you to understand the world in a new and productive way.
It's definitely a course worth taking and can help you decide if political science is a field you're interested in. I came into the course thinking that I might major in gov, and I'm coming out of it thinking not- but I'm still glad I took it. Go to lecture- Levitsky is great, and lecture vids are not the same. Try to do as much as the reading as you can yourself, but join a study group for sure because you won't be able to it all.
Levitsky is an incredible lecturer. The course curriculum is must-know material for any informed person, whether or a not a future government concentrator. The immense amount of reading would definitely be overwhelming if done alone, so get into a dependable study-group! I'd recommend 4-8 students collaborating on the weekly readings.
Don't do the reading, or at most just skim the first author listed for each week (those readings are usually the most important). It will save you endless hours of work and won't hurt your grades. Just drop authors' names into your papers/exam responses, name one or two major ideas, and you'll be fine.
Be prepared for little advice with writing papers.
Awesome. A LOT of reading. But if you actually take the time to do the readings yourself (at least a fairly thorough skim) instead of reading outlines from study groups), I feel it actually does give you a much deeper and clearer understanding of the topics, and much more confidence in section discussion and essay writing. Often it helps to know some detail in what someone says - it can be easier to find weaknesses in arguments that way.
This class is really extremely enjoyable - there is much to be learned and discussed, and Professor Levitsky and the TFs provide the perfect environment for this.
You're technically going to have to read alot- it's worth it. The course material is relevant and interesting and Levitsky's lectures should be published on PBS. Great class, just do it.
This class should be mandatory for all government concentrators! It is incredibly informative and can provide a basic grounding for all future political science study. I would recommend taking it Sophomore year, before GOV97 tutorial, however, you can get lots out of it any year you decide to take it! It is quite a bit of reading, but SO SO worthwhile.
The amount of reading required for this class is straight up ridiculous. It makes me question whether some of the articles were necessary. Eventually, you figure out you don't need to do all of the reading, and that some articles are more crucial than others. Even not all of the articles are crucial-- reading the conclusion of some sums up 100 pages of reading into one paragraph. Levitsky is a good lecturer, though not as dynamic as people claim he is. His lectures can be interesting, but not because of him.
The amount of reading can be handled in study groups. A very good class.
It is a very interesting class that doesn't take up too much time. It is definitely interesting especially if government is your thing. Levitsky is the man as well.
You will enjoy each lecture and you will become much more aware of the world. You will experience the breadth of political science.
This is one of those classes essential to a true liberal arts education and provides a solid foundation for understanding the world. It is also useful for seeing how theoretical readings can integrate with tangible case studies, something that would be useful before taking a class like Social Studies 10, for example, which quickly becomes abstract and theoretical.
It'll chew you up, spit you out and you'll love it.
The workload is heavy, but it pays off. Make sure you do ALL the readings, because then you won't be able to contribute to discussions in sections.
I would tell students that they should definitely take this class if they have some interest in comparative politics. Levitsky is a fantastic professor and a very approachable person. His lectures make the sometimes dry readings worthwhile.
I really enjoyed it and learned a ton.  While everyone says join a study group, I would actually recommend doing all the readings (or at least skimming them) and then only discussing topics with a group right before the exams.  You will have to work hard, though, but it's not unreasonable and it's worth it.
If you're at all interested in comparative politics, take it!
You have to work hard to do well on the two essays. You gotta know the readings.
The class is very useful to gain a broader understanding of the world and the driving forces behind the development of modern political systems. It opened my mind to new ideas and big theories that have been developed to explain major world phenomena, and I feel that a basic understanding of these concepts will benefit me in future classes/life experiences. The lectures also made the class enjoyable and exciting.
Take this class with Levitsky. He's an engaging and inspiring lecturer and an all-around good guy. There's a lot of reading, but most people form study groups (you should) and you can get away with not doing it if you're busy. The exams and papers are reasonable; try to start early as with any class so it doesn't seem too overwhelming. I had no background in comparative politics, but I learned a lot and didn't feel overly burdened by this course.
It is a good introduction for political science. Levitsky is a very good lecturer and a very approachable professor. There are insane amounts of reading for this course, but it is bearable if you find study group to split up and summarize the readings. 90% of the course depends on memorizing, understanding and applying various theories. Half of these theories are bull**** and contradict each other, which may frustrate you at times. Nonetheless, at the end of the course you'll have an inventory of ways to view the world. The amount you learn while struggling to keep up with the readings (looking back) is surprising.
It's a great introduction course.  It's pretty broad and doesn't get into specifics, but overall the course is beneficial and important for anyone considering government as a major. Levitsky's really entertaining!
very interesting, highly recommended
Fantastic class! The reading load is heavy, but I would strongly recommend actually reading it all yourself; when exams and midterms come around, it will be much easier for you if you've done the reading (not to mention it makes it a lot easier to understand the lectures and participate in section)
There's lots of assigned reading (LOTS) but you don't really need to do it and still learn a lot and enjoy the course...
The reading looks intimidating, but do not be afraid! Set up a study group and it will be the most enjoyable class you'll take. GO TO LECTURES- Levitsky is so good at them you'll seriously miss out.
Make sure you get in a study group and know how to write an essay.
This class is amazing! It is one of those iconic Harvard classes that is an absolute must. Although it requires work, you learn so much that in the end it is worth it.
There is a lot of reading so be sure to find a study group to divide up the homework for each week. The lectures and materials are interesting and I felt like I learned a lot from this course, making it worth it despite the workload.
Steve Levitsky is a great guy and he has a passion for teaching. The course itself helps you understand the world through a new light.
TAKE THIS CLASS. If you're at all interested in international relations, politics, political structures etc. this class is a great way of introducing you to political science, while relating theory to case studies and modern political issues. Levitsky is a wonderful lecturer, and a reason to take this class alone. Don't be put off by the heavy reading...a) form a study group b) skim read!This class was by far my favorite class of the semester!
This course is absolutely imperative for anyone who has interest in the political structures of major countries around the world. This course not only teaches us how these political institutions came into being, but also devises plans to save bad institutions and make good institutions better. The breadth and depth of information taught in this course are challenging, but gives a very broad and detailed analysis of the world under human construction up to this day. This course is a must-take Harvard politics course.
It's a lot of reading, but if you keep up, you'll learn a lot
At first, the reading is overwhelming but it gets a lot better as you adjust and develop your own approach. You don't have to do all of the reading but do as much of it as you can. And join/create a study group!
read more
You will learn a great deal by taking this class. The fulfillment at the end of the course is well worth the arduous amount of readings.
My favorite class of this semester. The professor was awesome. I will definitely be recommending this course.
Levitsky is awesome, you'll learn a lot but god, the reading...
This is a great course and well worth taking! It's daunting, but don't freak out-- be prepared to learn to read very quickly and to form a study group-- you will need it. Even if you manage to read all of the assignments, you'll want to have notes for most of the readings (you'll have to be able to link the concepts and theories from the readings to the names of the people who wrote them, and there are tons) and help defining all of the key terms at the end. Your group will also help to put things in perspective and summarize concepts, which your section will also help with. Still, this course is amazing and covers really interesting material that is important to know. In the end, Professor Levitsky applies most of what he has taught to present-day situations, which shows just how important these concepts are.
You will have tons of reading!
Make sure you like politics and doing lots of reading. Polish your writing skills to do well in this class...
Government 20 is an excellent introductory course into the world of political science. It helps strengthen the ways in which we analyze events both in the past and present.
I went into the class not knowing much about the topic so I felt a bit overwhelmed by other students who seemed so knowledgeable. Though I felt at a disadvantage, I learned a lot in the class and got through it fine. I would not recommend the class if you do not appreciate learning about other countries and political outcomes.
It is hard to read everything, but you come away with a great knowledge of what international government is now and what it has been.
Watch out for the reading.
Lots of reading for someone not intending to concentrate in government and with several other difficult classes, but this is much more manageable if you divide up the reading in a study group.  Lectures were amazing, and I learned a lot about basic theories in political science and recent events in world history.
It was fabulous and gave a very thorough introduction to foreign politics.
Excellent for expanding your understanding of world affairs of development, democracy, revolution, and ethnic violence in a historical context and in the context of the debates of political scientists about their causes. Awesome, engaging, memorable lectures, great opportunities to ask questions during lecture, good TFs.
The lectures by Steven Levitsky are fantastic, they make the whole thing worth it. The readings are generally long, boring, and tedious.. I thought I liked gov readings until I took this class. Many authors are difficult to follow and draw meaning from, but the only you're exposed to them the more familiar you get with their arguments (though by this time, the test/paper is already over..)Section is pretty unhelpful; prepare to be grilled on the readings you didn't have time to finish (get a study group as early as possible! share notes/summaries, which come in handy when it's time to study for the midterm/final)The exams are manageable, though they tend to grade them leniently and then put in a wickedly cruel curve (for the midterm, an A was a 96..)Since Levitsky's not doing it next year, I probably wouldn't take it. Levitsky is what made all the readings worth it.
Gov 20 is an amazing introduction to comparative politics. The work you're required to do isn't too strenuous (although you're going to have to do a bit of work for the essays) but the payoff is definitely worth it. A lot of the class's quality comes from Levitsky (who is enthusiastic, engaging, and genuinely cares about the class and the students) and who your TF is (some, of course, are better than others). The readings are manageable, don't let them scare you away from the class (just join a study group).
Professor Levitsky is a great professor.  His lectures are engaging and interesting.  Never once was I bored by his lectures.
I learned a lot about the basics of comparative politics, including theories about how countries industrialize, democratize, experience revolutions or ethnic conflict, and how states are strengthened.  This is useful knowledge to apply to current events and I feel like this course gave me an excellent grasp on the subject matter.  Great course for any potential Gov concentrators as well as anyone who likes to think analytically about situations.  Watch out for tons of reading--it's useful to form a study group and split it up.
An extremely rewarding course.  By the end you'll feel much more informed about how and why world events unfold.  The required readings are extensive and difficult to keep up with, but try to do most of them - you'll get so much more out of the course that way.
This class provided a great foundation for government; although there's a lot of reading, I learned a lot about political theories and political scientists. Having a great TF also helped out a lot.
Way too many readings, but you can get by without having to read them all of the time. Lectures are really good. Overall, its a useful course.
If you're looking for a great class with a fun professor, this one is it!  The issues discussed are relevant to today's world and really helps you develop your own ideas about the events happening in the modern world.
Do yourself a favor and take this class if Professor Levitsky is teaching it. Having completed this course first semester freshman year I'm now concerned that my academic experience here at Harvard has peaked too early.
Professor Levitsky has such a passion for the subject that his lectures are really a thing to behold.  I was so excited to attend lectures and I am so glad I took this course for the lectures alone.  Though the reading is heavy and often very boring, the lectures and the knowledge you gain from Professor Levitsky make it worth it.
This class is very interesting and a lot of fun to take.
Amazing class, but a ton of reading.
It's a lot of reading, but it's well worth it!  Levistky's lectures are unbeatable!
Covers broad, though you would think interesting topics, in comparative politics. However, readings are very extensive, yet so superficial. Unfortunately, due to the rather unchallenging albeit tedious readings, the course feels a lot like manual labor. A plus to Levitsky for being very enthusiastic, and for neatly summarizing readings in lecture. My particular TF was good.
Yes, all the rumors are true, there's a lot of reading, but it's definitely worth it and you don't have to read every word of every assignment to get the material.  Skimming can be more efficient a lot of the time.  And the lectures are fantastic!
If you want an easy, interesting class your freshman fall, take Gov20.
This course is great and everybody should take it. Levitsky is an excellent professor and the lectures are very clear. You shouldn't leave the readings for the night before, reading a little bit every day will be better. You don't need to read every word, try to get the general idea first and then look for details.
Professor Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer. How much you get out of section will depend on your TF. There is a ton of reading but you don't really have to do all of it to get a sufficient understanding of the material.
Levitsky is an amazing professor.
You need to make a study group to divide the readings by making outlines. Attend the extra-help midterm review sessions. Meet with your TF and ask questions!
Be prepared to read--a lot. Know however, that the course will prove worthwhile; you will leave with a new perspective on the world.
watch the counterarguments
This is a great introductory course to the Government department at Harvard. I is very reading intensive so you need to know how to skim for the important facts. Levitsky is fantastic so even if you are not so sure about comparative politics as opposed to other aspects of political science, this is work taking to have him as a professor!
Definitely take Gov 20. Even if you aren't planning on majoring in it, the lectures are amazing, and you'll learn so much about how the world works. Form a study group early on. Mine was just two people but it was really helpful to only have 1/2 the amount of reading. Be prepared for lots of reading, but try to do as much as you can. Definitely keep an ongoing list of terms and thorough definitions. And write summaries of the different authors. This would have made studying a lot easier for the final and midterm.
Professor Levitsky is very enthusiastic and knowledgeable but beware of the coursework - lots of reading!
Looking back on the course I am glad I took it as it gave me good background knowledge on how the world works. While I was doing it, I didn't enjoy it as much because I felt I was always trying to catch up with readings and didn't have time to engage properly with the material because of that. The lectures are fantastic though- Levitsky is superb.
This class was my favorite class this semester. While there is a lot of reading that takes time, the course readings are so interesting, and Professor Levitsky is an amazing professor, who really tries to get to know his students.
Interesting course, but seems like it could be very boring with a bad Professor. Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer who manages to make the most boring stuff interesting, keeping that from happening though. There is a lot of reading though, so be forewarned about that, you're going to want a study group for this class.
Great class
It is a lot of hard work, but you will benefit greatly from it and Levitsky is a great teacher.
It was a good course but the readings are quite heavy
The professor has great enthusiasm towards the topic.
The amount of reading for this class may seem overwhelming at first, but you really don't need to do all of it to be successful.  Form a study group and divide up the readings, and you'll be fine.  You really only need to know general concepts from the reading.
Find good lecture and reading notes before the class even begins. Makes following along in lectures so much easier. Great course though.
Be prepared to participate in section. Even if you cannot read all of the readings, skim them to know the main points and arguments of the authors
You must join a study group!
Fantastic course ... lots of reading but Levitsky's enthusiasm is unparalleled!
take it
It's an awesome class, just get ready to do a lot of reading.
Professor Levistky is the man, basically.
It's about 300 pages a week, but you don;t have to read them all.  The course is a good introduction to the study of government, and the professor is simply awesome.  It's hard to become familiar with all the course materials, but it's not so difficult to get As for papers and exams.
Levitsky is fantastic, but be aware that the course materials will likely swallow your life. Lamont becomes a consistent haven for Gov 20 students.
be prepared to read
Join a study group immediately. Splitting up the readings is almost a necessity, and being part of a group gives you an incentive to actually get your readings done in time for section. The readings can also be quite dry, so it helps to have some interest in the topic of comparative politics to begin with.
Gov 20 is interesting and will certainly inform your understanding of international politics.  However, it is a fair amount of work because of the huge amount of reading so don't take it with a heavy courseload.  Also, it's crawling with freshmen, just in case that would bother any upperclassmen.
Lectures are great and pretty captivating, but the readings are sometimes pretty difficult to get through. Definitely make sure you either have a lot of time to handle the readings or get a solid study group for them.
While extremely interesting, this class is extremely reading-intensive and time consuming. It is worth the effort though, as Mr. Levitsky's lectures are compelling and easy to follow.
The volume of reading is intimidating, but by prioritizing and working in a study group, you will find the work very manageable.
Good class, get a study guide though, reading list is unnecessarily long
Form a study group.  If you try to do 8 readings a week (all of which are incredibly dry, trust me) you will not make it through the semester.  You really don't need to do this to do well, you just need to be smart about the way you get the material covered.
I would let them know the papers are graded overly harsh but it is well worth it
ONLY TAKE THE COURSE WITH PROFESSOR LEVITSKY! HE IS THE SHIZNIT!
Reading is impossible to manage. You will learn a lot though. It will be like trying to take a drink from a water house, or at least it will feel like that at certain points. But you do learn a lot.
Gov 20 is a really interesting survey course in comparative politics and international politics. Levitsky is an amazing lecturer. That said, the reading load is intense and be prepared to spend 8 hours a week on it if you do it all and don't form study groups (form study groups). While it introduces many authors, theories, and cases which are all really important in any sort of comparative politics discussion, it can be very hard to figure out how it all connects for an essay. International students tend to have a leg up as they know a lot of cases on their own and understand international politics a lot better than U.S. students. Furthermore, the TFs do not grade on a standardized basis and while some may be much more helpful in relaying information, they also will grade REALLY HARD on essays (This class is not easy). That said the course was very informative and helped me figure out a lot about myself and what kind of a student I am at Harvard and is a good course.
This class is fine, not great. In the beginning the amount of reading seems overwhelming, but if you form a study group, you realize that you only need to spend less than 10 hours a week on this class. Garding may be eaier or harder depenssing on your TF. This class is a decent intro to college classes. As a freshman, I now feel that I know how to stay afloat in big, lecture based, heavy-reading courses. It is pretty reasonable in difficulty and very predictable. It is quite clear what is expected of you and if you do your work, it isn't hard to do well.
There are better ways to satisfy the requirement in the Gov concentration, since the volume of reading can interfere with other coursework.  However, the subject matter and teaching (both professorial and in section) is wonderful and well-done, so if you're interested, then you should go for it.
Incredible class!  Professor Levitsky is knowledgeable, interesting, funny, and the material is well-organized.  Don't be intimidated by the voluminous course packet!
It's a very good class to take but just be ready to learn. It can be overwhelming at times and requires a lot of reading; however, this course is one of those in which I feel that you will take the most from when you finish it.
It becomes redundant and rather boring at times, but overall provides a strong basic introduction to comparative politics.
This is a much take class. People will say it's too much reading, and it is, but honestly, you really don't need to read it all. there is only 2 papers, 1 midterm, and 1 final, so the concepts are tested really broadly. So don't get turned away by the reading. Keep in mind that this is a writing course, for those who hate writing.
There is a lot of reading, but realistically speaking you don't need to do all of it. If you attend lecture and section and read enough to write your two short papers, you'll be fine.
Be prepared for a lot of reading, but know that you'll come out of this class knowing a whole lot more than you knew before about political science and how the world works.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
I am not sure whether Levitsky's amazing lectures make up for the positively tedious readings in the class. Actually, the lectures probably do because they are just that good.
Get a study guide for the class early on and you will be able to avoid doing much of the readings. Yes, you should try to skim them at least though because it is important to get the main points, but don't worry about actually reading every piece.
Be prepared to read a lot and learn a lot. Try to form an opinion about the theories you are reading and map out concepts to make them easier to connect and understand.
Great class. The lectures are fantastic and I came away with a great sense of the theories out there for many of the concepts of society today.
Be prepared to read, read, and read a lot. Form a study group so that you don't have to drown in readings. Still, it's a lot of material to absorb every week. I lose interest about half way through the class, because at some point it just doesn't make sense to learn about political theories that have been disproved for decades. Some stuff are interesting though: Yugoslavia/Rwanda genocide, Iraq. Levitsky is a great lecturer, but he speaks like a rocket and sometimes you just don't have the kind of energy needed to follow him (or go to class) at 10AM in the morning.
It is a lot of work but very interesting and Levitsky is fantastic.
Go to lecture!
This class is amazing and entirely worthwhile, but know that there is a lot of reading expected.  Make a study group from the outset of the course.  I recommend taking the class with Professor Levitsky if possible.
If you want to know ANYTHING about government, take this course
There is a lot of reading!
It definitely is a good class and Professor Levitsky is great. The negative part is that I found the class a little too broad and superficial; the material, however, is very interesting. If you are planning to study more government, this class helps you figure out topics you might want to explore in the future.
The course is an essential introduction course to government and as far as intro courses go its a really good one. The course is structured with the fact that many students are freshman/unfamiliar to government in mind and the professor is EXCELLENT at presenting some complex material in an understandable way and always makes himself open for questions. However, the reading load is a bit ridiculous and, because the course is an intro, it scratches the surface of a lot of different theories but doesn't really go in-depth, which can be frustrating, but it lays the groundwork for more in-depth courses.
form a study group!
There is a lot of reading but you don't need to do all of it. Also, you should go to every lecture, they are great.
This is a good course if you want to understand if you wanna major in government or not. In my case, it was a very strong no because I just didn't like the superficial way political science studies reality. But many of my fellow coursemates found it interesting, so you might be one of them superficial nerds hahaha!
Be prepared for a lot of work, but the material is interesting and its worth it.
Great intro government class.
Be ready to read a lot/process a lot of information, but also to learn a lot about the world.
the Best Class
Get a good study guide, dont worry tremendously about readings, and put in a lot of work on your papers (they will be graded harshly).
If you don't mind reading a lot of material, this course will be very rewarding for you.
In order to succeed in this class you must have a strong interest in comparative politics and enjoy comparing and contrasting political ideologies.
Even if you know you won't be a gov concentrator, this class is definitely worth taking. Levitsky is a great lecturer, and you will be able to impress everyone with your fancy gov vocabulary.
If you're prepared to go to lecture (or watch it) and do a reasonable amount of reading, the class and the material is very interesting.
TAKE IT! NOW! Why are you still reading this? GO REGISTER!!!
Do not take this course if you have other time-consuming classes because this class requires A LOT of reading.
Reading is overwhelming
Best class ever, despite the amount of reading.
Great class
This is a very interesting course but it requires a lot of reading so students who do not wish to do that should not take this course.
Absolutely incredible course. It was my first gov course and I absolutely love it. Levitsky is the man.
The course itself is very interesting. Just be sure to ask around to get the better TFs... It really makes or breaks the class.
The coursework is fairly intense as far as the reading is involved.
Lectures and Professor Levitsky are amazing. He doesn't appear to be teaching in 2010, so...that could change.There is a substantial amount of reading that is assigned each week, even over Thanksgiving. Recommended that you start each week's reading the weekend before. And make good outlines/notes for yourself (or else studying for midterms/finals will suck).
Gov 20 is a much hyped freshman year class. For me, the best part was my study group, and meeting a great TF, not the content of the class necessarily. It left me frustrated about political science, but also curious to learn more.
This class gives you a great general background of the recent history of the various countries in the world.  There is a lot of reading, however, which could be hard to keep up with individually. Having a study group reallyhelps.
Take this course if you want to memorize lists of terms and authors and papers for tests. Do not take this course if you want some stimulating discussions. The sections are simply rehashes of the lectures and readings. The readings are massive (150-300 pages a week) and there is no way you will be able to appreciate them. You will skim through them, and learn nothing about everything. Welcome to Gov 20. The lectures are great. Levitsky is great. But your communication and grades are mostly between you and your TF.
It's a lot of work, but worth every minute of it. Definitely take it!
Gov 20 is easily one of the best courses I've taken so far at Harvard--Levitsky is amazing and you will learn A TON. Don't let the huge amount of readings discourage you from taking this course; as long as you can summarize each author's basic idea in a couple sentences or less you really don't need to do all the readings (although in some cases you might actually want to, as they can be pretty interesting.) I would highly recommend this course to anyone.
This class is really wonderful, although there is a ton of material covered and far too much assigned reading. Having said that, it is possible to get through it by forming study groups. Try to review lecture notes as the course progresses, because we move on so quickly from one lecture to the next that it's easy for the details to get fuzzy.
This is a great course but it requires a lot of reading and work.
lots of reading
Don't be intimidated by the readings. Spend an hour with each, write a paragraph about it, and go to lecture. Prof. Levitsky's lectures are filled with information and if you take good notes you can often avoid the readings for that week!
Fantastic professor (Levitsky) and enlightening topics. Take it if you are at all interested in politics, particularly learning about politics in other countries.
This is a great choice for a Gen Ed requirement. As long as you split up the readings amongst a group of people it's not too stressful or difficult.
Excellent course. Excellent professor.
This course is not easy - there is a great deal of reading and a lot of material covered - but Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer, and the material discussed is extremely interesting. There were only two papers, a midterm, and a final, which is not a terrible amount of work. This is a very rewarding class if you take the time to do the readings (or create a study group and read notes of the readings).
Prepare for a lot of reading.
This is a fantastic introductory course -- Levitsky is a fantastic professor, the TFs are very knowledgeable and helpful, and the material is interesting. Just KEEP UP WITH THE READINGS, and be willing to devote a lot of time to reading them, highlighting them, understanding them, and processing them, because understanding the multiplicity and nuances of the arguments presented is CRITICAL to this course.
This is a great class.
Fantastic class - I strongly recommend that everyone take this to get a basic understanding of broader world politics.
Make sure you're interested in comparative politics, government, and learning about how the world works. Be prepared for a lot of reading each week that can seem daunting, but is manageable with a bit of effort.
This course is really, really, really good, but you have to bring your game face to it. You will lose out immensely if you do not attend the lectures. When the readings often do not directly address the same topic, it is Professor Levitsky who provides the framework for understanding everything, plus he is so clear and so engaging that it is difficult to imagine how better to spend those two hours per week.
Be wary of what TF you get -- it can make or break your entire year.
Lots of reading...
I think students should take this course if they're looking for an intro to what gov classes are like here. I took Gov 20 as an exploratory course with the hopes that it might be a subject area that I could potentially really enjoy, and I think it really helped me understand what I do and don't like about the subject. Even for those who just want a taste of what comparative politics is like, this is a great course, and I really recommend it, even for non-gov concentrators. It is a lot of reading, but honestly people over-exaggerate how much it is. For many of the weeks the readings are totally doable and didn't take an obscene amount of time like I was told. Students just have to put in the effort, and if you do it's thoroughly rewarding.
This class is definitely a really comprehensive introduction to comparative politics. It provides a lot of theories and explanations for understanding phenomenas and events in the world (development, democratization, ethnic conflict, and revolution). I feel like I definitely gained a better perspective of global issues through this course. The only two criticisms that I had were the readings and the sections. Because of the massive amount of readings in the course, it was difficult for many students to keep up. As a result, many students did not do the readings. Unprepared for section, the discussions were shallow and irrelevant.
stay on top of the readings as much as possible, but don't get bogged down if you fall behind. levitsky is as amazing as they say.
It's an interesting course, Levitsky is a great lecturer, but the reading can be overwhelming. Don't try to do it all alone. Honestly not doing any of it is viable if you have a good section and go to all the lectures. It's also a good intro to government, so if you might major in gov it's a really good class to take.
This class requires a good amount of work and a willingness to listen to lectures. If you have no interest in government or politics, this may not be the class for you. I loved it because Levitsky is a great lecturer and the material was very interesting to me.
Gov 20 is a fantastic introduction to comparative politics!
Definitely take this course, I learned a great deal! Be weary of the amount of reading and the forceful.competitive conversations in section (lots of future politicians or international relations pros)
Levitsky is a great lecturer that knows how to keep his stuff both interesting and enlightening. the reading is brutal so just read the first sentence out of every paragraph or something like that. Speak up in section to make it worth it for you.
I restructured my whole schedule just so I could take this course. In retrospect, I did really enjoy the class but am less enchanted by it than I was at the beginning of the semester. Lectures are very engaging and worth going to, but readings are long and time-consuming and may sometimes feel unrelated to the subject matter.
Great way to get introduced to the government department.  Also a great way to learn more about the ways that the world works outside of the United States.
You can cram your way through this class or you can work incredibly hard through the class, and what you get out of GOV20 truly is dependent on your work ethic. It's far more theoretical than you might think for a comparative politics class, but if you're willing to really put in the work (and that doesn't necessarily mean doing all of the legendary amount of weekly reading) you'll get a ton out of it.
You can handle the readings if you read efficiently and learn how to skim!
It's a great class, but you have to have a good reading ethnic as section leaders or the professor hold you accountable for the reading.
Readings can be monotonous but the things you learn are fantastic!
There is A LOT of reading for this course. You can get away with not doing it for section but it gets really hard to catch up and cram for exam times. But it is easy to write your essays without doing the reading. Just be weary of how much time the reading is going to eat up.
There is an insane amount of reading in this class, so just be aware of that as you choose your classes. Professor Levitsky is an awesome lecturer. Also, have some experience with writing 5-7 papers because minimal help will be given to you. Expectations are unclear, grading is subjective, and very ambiguous advice is given.
Professor Levitsky gives great lectures, but the section component is hit or miss. Do NOT do all the readings...join a reading group and share study guides.
DO NOT TAKE IT IF YOU'RE NOT A FRESHMAN
Be prepared for the immense amount of reading- the sheer volume expected each week hinders your ability to actively and thoroughly engage most of the works. Otherwise not a bad class at all.
Take this class! It is extremely interesting, very well organizing and very engaging. It is definitely one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard.
There is a lot of reading to do, but it's rewarding to see the full picture of what the course is trying to convey.
Levitsky is an excellent lecturer
Levitsky is a wonderful professor, and his knowledge of government and politics is awesome. However, I feel that this course is too literature-heavy and would benefit much more from a 2 hour section that discusses important theories and provides opportunity for debate and opinions.
Great class. Engaging lectures. Interesting subject material provided good section discussions.
Professor Levitsky delivers each and every lecture enthusiastically and it really is fascinating to hear him each week. He explains political theories in a concise, clear way and really tries to make himself accessible to the students.
You're going to hate this class it's a time drain and you feel like one in a crowd that no one cares about. I learned nothing.
take it to learn about how others organize their governments
Although it's very dense, the course is very interesting and fun.
Levitsky is a great lecturer, but don't let that make you take the class, as he teaches other courses and, given that each lecture is posted online at a saner hour, there's not much incentive to go to class. Readings are heavy but manageable. Section will be nightmarish because you either didn't do all of the readings or you did and have to sit around waiting to be called on.
An ability to read analytically and to take notes is very helpful for this course. You don't have to do all the readings, and you certainly don't have to do them all yourself. Create a study group and break up the readings. Make sure each member notes the main idea/thesis of each reading, along with the dependent/independent variable involved, as well as the causal mechanism.
I would tell students that the class is really interesting, but they should not take it amidst too many other high-workload classes as it is very demanding.
This course is tough, but it's rewarding. If you don't do the readings, this course will be useless (and most likely harder than it needs to be). As long as you do the readings and put it upon yourself to engage the topic, you'll be in great shape.
Gov 20 is fascinating and rewarding, and the reading isn't really as bad as most people say. Sometimes the reading will lag, but Levitsky will pull you right back in with his twice-weekly lectures (unlike some other classes...ahem Ec 10). Take Gov 20!
Levitsky is an EXTREMELY engaging lecturer and makes every lecture fascinating, even if the subject matter isn't (although it usually is). The amount of reading is borderline impossible to complete if you are also taking other time-consuming classes, but although I'm sure it would contribute greatly to your understanding and enjoyment of the course it's largely unnecessary to complete for the sake of success on the papers and midterm/final.
This is a very interesting class on comparative politics.  Levitsky is a great lecturer, but try to get a good TF too.
Levistiky is my dude!
Great course. Levitsky is a great lecturer. A lot of reading, but a lot of it is covered in lecture and section so it is not overwhelming. Highly recommend.
GOV20 IS AWESOME.  SO IS LEVITSKY.
Very interesting, but difficult. Levitsky is great.
It's really fascinating and a useful intro into Gov and the Social Sciences in general. You don't need to do the readings, honestly, because if you go to every lecture and take good notes you'll get basically the same out of the course but with less stress (you just might be a bit less clear on who said what when it comes to section).
Just beware of and be realistic about the amount of time that you can devote to readings and study groups.
Definitely form a reading group to split up and discuss the readings with.
This is a great class and Levtisky is one of the best professors you will find here. Lectures are engaging and interesting. Be sure to do the readings because they make section much more interesting and you take more away form the course.
While this course has a lot of reading that can at times seem rather pedantic and esoteric, the theories you learn in this class really help you understand why things are the way they are today. It also really helps prepare you for higher level government classes. Overall, this course was really helpful and I'm glad I took it. Plus, Levitsky is a pretty great lecturer and he is able to keep it interesting.
So much reading. Around 200 pages of dense reading a week. Recommended for people with a strong interest in the material and will put in time to actually read because the readings lose value when summarized.
I would really only recommend this course for those who are thinking about concentrating in Gov. There are a ton of readings. The best way to approach the course would be to form a study group, which may not be ideal for some students. Professor Levitsky is a very passionate lecturer, but it can be overwhelming to try to take good notes during his lectures. This is a very good introduction to some pretty broad political theory, and some of the readings are rather dense. Still, looking at specific cases throughout the world was very interesting.
I loved this class. Levitsky is amazing and Rakeen was an awesome TF. You have to do the readings to do well, but they're generally pretty interesting.
If you are interested in government you should take it to get a feel for the department though being an introductory course it doesn't reflect most courses offered. It's definitely a heavy work load, but if you are interested in the material you'll enjoy it. If you are not interested in the material, I would look for a different course to fulfill your general education requirement.
Put in the work and reap the rewards.
I seriously wish every single person in the world could take Gov 20, because I think its lessons both teach students a lot about the world, and serve to help students understand why having an enlightened sense of self-interest is important. If every person in the world took Gov 20, there would be a lot less global conflict. Because that's obviously not realistic, every single *Harvard student* ought to take this class at some point. It was amazing.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading. The good thing about the amount of reading this class assigns is that it teaches you how to read and take notes efficiently. Definitely make a study group, too.
I'm not a politically-oriented person, so the subject matter of this class was not of great interest to me. The readings were very daunting and unnecessarily excessive, but overall Gov 20 made me look at the world in new and unexpected ways to which I would otherwise be ignorant.
Government 20 is a terrific foundation course. It includes fascinating materials and Professor Levitsky is an engaging and insightful lecturer. Despite the enormous breadth of the course (covering a dozen or so countries and many broad concepts), it did not sacrifice depth. I find myself recalling many finer points that I learned in lecture or section. A lot of students are unhappy with the readings, but they shouldn't be unmanageable if you work with a small study group. One inherent problem of a big class is that you get little to no individual time with the professor. But Ashley (head TF) is a great TF-- section was organized, productive, and included many interesting discussions and debates.
This class is truly fantastic because of the strength of the teaching team, headed by Professor Levitksy, and the rich content of the material. Professor Levitsky is one of the few professors I have met at Harvard who really invests in teaching. His commitment to the students is clear through his engaging lectures and his lunch with undergraduates every other week. Even though the class is so big, he makes himself really available and gives students a chance to get to know him and talk to him about the material personally. He's just an amazing teacher that can get anyone excited about this subject matter. At the same time, the range of relevant issues we cover in class, from the Iranian revolution to the Rwandan genocide, have made clear to me how to relate the many theories I learn in class to real-life events. Truth be told, this class is challenging because of the amount of reading that we are suppose to do every week. Sure, you can get by without doing all of it...but this is definitely one of those classes in which the more you put into it, the more you get out of it. This not only applies to readings but to office hours. As I said, Professor Levitsky has a lot of office hours and I would encourage any student to go! Gov20 is one of those Harvard classes that embodies what college education should be: an opportunity to learn about academic theories that very much apply to the real world with an awe-inspiring professor and knowledgeable and helpful TFs.
It's a lot of reading but cool.
While the readings are extensive, there is much to gain if you put the hours in.
Professor Levitsky is great, he keeps the lectures energetic and interesting
That the course is an excellent introduction and foundation for Government.
Professor Levitsky is one of the best professors I have ever had. His enthusiasm makes the course so fun. The course covers a wide variety of topics, which makes it difficult to follow at times. Professor Levitsky tries to fit an extensive amount of subjects in 1 hour lectures, which causes him to talk very fast and jump from topic to topic and does not leave time for you to evaluate on the information given. Therefore it is vital to review the topics covered in lecture at the end of each day. The reading requirement is too much for the course. It is nearly impossible to do all of them but I encourage you to try. I found myself at a loss before the exam since I hadn't done quite a few. The weekly lunches with Steve Levitsky is perfect to prevent the gap between the students and the professor that is bound to happen in such a large course.
Only take this class if you are really interested in comparative politics.
This is a great course, you will learn a ton. Professor Levitsky is an amazing lecturer as well. Be prepared for a lot of reading  I thought most of it was really interesting, but it would probably be a huge drag if you were not all that interested in political theory. But if you are interested in Government and how it works, this is definitely the course to take!
This course gives a great introduction to one of the pathways you can pursue in a government degree or offers an interesting perspective to fulfill the Societies of the World Gen Ed. This class has a lot of reading, so when enrolling, know that you will be spending a notable number of hours reading. Lectures and sections are very interesting and engaging, so it's important to keep on schedule with your readings or you'll find your reading list bulking up, especially around essay and exam weeks.
Study smart and try and stay committed to doing some of the reading.
This class is an interesting class. Levitsky is an amazing lecturer. He will keep you engaged and explain anything you misunderstood. Section is just a good place to ensure that you understood everything in the readings and in lecture. However, beware that there are a ton of readings that come along with it. Make sure you allot a certain amount of time each week towards the readings or find a study group.
I never liked the idea of government until I took this class. This is an amazing class that will teach you a lot about how the world works, and I would highly recommend it to anyone!! Even if you don't think it is your thing, you can find methods to help you think critically about theories in politics, development, and conflict.
This is a great class! Lecture is engaging and while there is a lot of reading, most of it is interesting and relevant to class discussion.
A great class to expand your general knowledge about the world.
If your are interested in Government at all I highly recommend this class. Levitsky is a great and engaging lecturer. The topic is interesting and teaches you a lot about why world events occur and the theories behing them.
A much broader understand of politics and government can be found in Gov 20 if one cares to look, but the gen ed component of the class seems to detract from the quality of the class as actual ideas fall out of the central focus, especially for grading purposes.
This is the best course I have ever had. Professor Levitsky is the best professor, and his classes are informative, valuable and interesting. If you decide to devote to political science in the future, this course is a must; if you hope to learn knowledge about comparative politics or world politics, this course is also an optimal choice. I highly recommend this course with great enthusiasm.
Gov 20 is a fascinating and important class because it exposes you to so many interesting new ideas - not only new answers but also new questions. Prof. Levitsky is terrific, my TF was also great, and the grading is fair even if the workload is pretty heavy. The course also exposes you to some intersectional disciplines like ec and sociology and provides a strong base in essay-writing, college-level discussion, and analysis/critical thinking. If you have room in your schedule for a rewarding but reading-intensive class and are interested in gov/politics (don't have to be interested in IR - I'm not), take Gov 20!
This course has A LOT of reading. However, if you find a good reading group, you can cut it down to 3-4 hours of reading a week. Not all the reading is necessary, and you can get a good grade without doing it all. The class teaches you a lot about other cultures and is great as an intro course for someone interested in government or just as a course to get you thinking about politics in other countries.
This class really does have a lot of readings, but I found them very interesting, so that was not a problem for me.
Interesting but very difficult
Steve Levitsky is a great lecturer, but there is a lot of reading for the class
Make a study group, but make sure to do the readings yourself as well. Keep up with the readings weekly.
While there is a lot of work, it is definitely worth the pain. This is a fantastic class that I really enjoyed and learned a ton from!
Honestly, it may be time consuming, but the course is well worth it. Steven Levitsky is a fantastic professor, and the material is very interesting. By tying in the material to case studies, and sometime current events, Levitsky makes the class engaging and practical. It doesn't feel like we're just learning theory. Overall, I really enjoy it, and would recommend it to anyone interested in culture and political or social development.
Good class, gives a broad base for understanding different political theories but there are way too many readings.
This is a good litmus test for whether or not you want to study government. There is a lot of reading, but it is doable.
This is a very good course and I would recommend it to anyone interested in government or more  broadly world issues. It is a demanding course that involves a lot of reading but one that for the most part is worthwhile.
Although there is a lot of reading don't let this deter you. The lectures are well prepared and Professor Levitsky is very easy to listen to. Often the readings just support the lecture material so as long as you are engaged in lecture/section you will be fine.
Take it for sure if Levitsky is teaching
Gov 20 is a lot of work. BE PREPARED TO DO A LOT OF WORK. But in the end it really does give you a broader understanding of government, world politics, and the forces that move our societies. How much you learn will largely depend on how thoroughly you do the readings, so be prepared to dedicate a large portion of your time each week reading (or stressing out from being hopelessly behind). I recommend this course, although you'd be better equipped to take it if you're a hardcore student who enjoys reading dense political theory.
The material just did not interest me. Levitsky is great, but make sure you like comparative politics. It is not for everyone!
Gov 20 has fascinating topic material. I was really interested in the issues that we discussed and I learnt a great deal. However, I did not feel particularly engaged with the course as a whole. The course is so reading based which becomes tedious and it is hard to motivate oneself to do it. The essays are completely based on the reading as well. As a result, they feel mildly formulaic in that little creativity or independent though is necessary. In fact I was told by my TF that bringing in lots of ideas from outside of class was discouraged. Overall this made me feel mildly dissatisfied.
Its a great class but it is hard work.
Good if you don't know much at all about international politics.
This class isn't necessarily for someone who wants to ease into comparative politics, but you walk away much better for having experienced the class and all it has to offer. Your skills in reading, writing, and analyzing deepens as a result of having to synthesize a lot of material.
its interesting, but there is a sickening amount of reading... find a study group
Although readings may bog you down and the content might be downright confusing, this course really teaches you a lot about various countries around the world and explanations for their current government and societal status, and helps you compare how they transformed throughout history.
If you're genuinely curious about the subject, enjoy politics and analysis of various social phenomena (like industrialization, democracy, and ethnic conflict) then you will love this course, as many who take it do. However, if you're not passionate or truely curious about those subjects, this course can be the bane of your existence. Do take it's high Q guide rating with a grain of salt.
Get ready to do a lot of reading. However, the reading really is not necessary except for the papers. This class will give you a broad introduction to many different topics in comparative politics.
There's a lot of reading and if the subject isn't interesting to you perhaps don't take it, but speaking personally it was transformative and really changed the way I think about the world. Worth the excessive reading.
Excellant introduction to comparative political science! If you have any interest at all in learning more about international politics and why the world is the way it is, I would highly recommend this course... even if you have zero previous experience in the field. I, personally, knew nothing about comparative politics before this course and both greatly enjoyed it and learned a lot!!
If you're interested in Gov, then this class might be good for you. However, the amount of work required was way too much for someone like me who has a shallow understanding and interest in government. I would\t really recommend taking it. Plus, Professor Levitsky literally just reads out his typed up notes in lecture -- not too engaging for me.
Take this course if you have the slightest interest at all in comparative politics. Levitsky is one the best lecturers at Harvard, and is an amazing guy. Though readings can be quite long and sometimes repetitive, they are extremely engaging and very interesting. This is made worth it and 100x better by attending lecture and seeing Levitsky talk about some of the most amazing politics around the world, not to mention being able to discuss with the brightest minds at Harvard in section.
The lectures are awesome, and while there is a lot of reading, the class is very manageable. I cannot recommend it enough.
Definitely take this class if you are interested in government, whether as a concentration/secondary or just as an outside interest.
GREAT Professor. I learned more than I could have ever imagined in this course. It was a great way to start my freshman year!
This class is amazing. Professor Levitsky is an amazing lecturer, so make sure you take it with him. There is a lot of reading, but it is well worth the time to do it because you learn so much.
The lectures and readings for this course will make you a better informed citizen of the world.  The class is extremely and engaging and relevant.  However, the assignments can be frustratingly vague and many fellow students don't really take the course seriously.
Great class, but it takes time to learn how to manage the class. Make a study group and meet regularly.
This class is interesting, but you absolutely ABSOLUTELY must not fall behind on readings, or else you're wasting your time.
Incredibly important to establish an effective study group right away. Keep up with readings. The course can provide an incredibly valuable background in world events and politics, but success in the exams and essays requires that students pace themselves throughout the course or risk burning out.
This class is a very easy introduction into Government in terms of content; the reading workload is ridiculously heavy and probably cannot be properly conquered without a study group. For an advanced Government student, this course could almost definitely be skipped, but it serves as an appropriate warm-up to further studies within the field. It's a great course to take if you want to increase your awareness about global studies.
The readings are manageable, once you're not a freshman anymore. If you go to lectures, you only need to flip through them before your section (just don't get one like I did immediately after second lecture).
This class is as good as it gets when it comes to Freshman government. Levitsky is a rockstar -- I never heard anyone complain about his teaching. He employs a good mix of humor and severity to deal with a complex subject. Sometimes the readings can be dry, but you can get by without reading every single assignment. Regardless of your background, you'll learn a lot from this class.
It is fairly difficult but very rewarding and a very good way to get an idea of the government field.
Do as many of the  readings as you can! It will greatly enhance your understanding and appreciation of Levitsky's lectures, which are outstanding.
Highly recommend for Freshmen, but not so much for upperclassmen as much.
Professor Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer. He is passionate, eloquent, and driven. His lectures are very informative, and offer critical perspectives on a variety of global issues. This class will make you think about the world in terms of government institutions, revolutions, and social conflict. It will give you an informed (albeit limited) perspective on the Middle East, Latin America, Africa, etc. That said, the material is heavy on theory. Dense theory. It is essential to split the readings with a study group, because there is no way to go through it alone. Essays and tests are pretty well aligned with lecture and readings. The one flaw of this course is that, as with many others, the section can make it or break it. I had many friends whose section leaders told them which readings to focus on, how to tackle them etc. My section, however, was barely a review of the general ideas, and didn't really prepare me for the essays or the tests. That said, this is a fantastic course, and I recommend it both as a Gen Ed (a challenging one) and/or as a concentration requirement.
This class bombards you with A LOT of information. It can be difficult to keep up at times, but the online lecture videos are useful
If you are interested in comparative politics, definitely take this course. Professor Levitsky is an awesome lecturer and sections are always interesting. Do take into account, however, that there is a lot of reading, but if it is interesting to you it is totally manageable!
This class is amazing. Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer, and I looked forward to going to class every day. The readings range from pretty boring to really interesting. There is a TON of reading assigned each week (around 200 pages of dense stuff), but you don't have to do all of it - either get in a reading group and split them up and have each person summarize, or just skim them yourself. Even if you don't get around to all of them, you'll be fine in the course. Of course, the more you do, the more you'll get out of the class, especially section. Section can seem very pointless since you only have 53 minutes to cover hours and hours of readings. I've learned a lot in the course and I think it's a good introduction to governments around the world.
This class is a very good class to take if you are interested at all in Government. It gives you a really good overview of Comp. Politics and you get to listen to Levitsky lecture 2 times a week, which is a real pleasure. It's important to note that the reading for this class is oppressive. It's an unnecessary amount and there is very little chance that you will be able to do all of it every week. It's probably a good idea to get a group together to split the readings or something along those lines. It's a very good class to take if you're at all considering Gov.
Professor Levitsky is an amazing lecturer with a clear passion for comparative politics. You will learn about different political theories and various case studies which exemplify them. There is quite a bit of history involved. The assigned reading is enormous but it's not necessary to do all of it; most TFs let their section know which readings are important and which ones to skip.
If you're going to try to do all the readings, you're gonna have a bad time. He covers the important stuff in lecture anyway so don't bother.
Its a good freshmen course to take and a way to see if you might be interested in government
Government 20 is a must for any student hoping to study Government or simply add something exciting to their schedule! Professor Levitsky is one of the best professors on campus, providing entertaining and informative lectures each time. This course is so beneficial and truly expands your views on many current political issues.
it is a lot of work, but in the end it is an extremely rewarding class! Levitsky is an amazing lecturer, and you will walk away with such an expansive breadth of knowledge of political trends and developments around the world.
This class will give you a good understanding of popular thought about why things like economic development, democratization, state collapse, social revolution, and other phenomena relevant to the way our world works have happened. It will make you a more informed citizen of the world, and I would recommend it regardless of what one intends to concentrate in.
This class is excellent. Don't let the readings discourage you!
Not interesting material
There is a ton of reading but it is worth it to at the very least ATTEMPT to do it all because it will improve your experience in lectures and in section.
Gov 20 is a staple that you can do well in while putting in minimal work.
The reading is hard but worth it. It is all very intriguing and I wish I read more.
Professor Levitsky's impassioned lectures and the interesting course material make this a must-take class for anyone vaguely interested in politics. There is certainly a lot of reading, but if you form a study group and keep up with the readings you'll be fine. It's worth it!
Go to Office Hours-The TFs are amazing, friendly, and really helpful
Get ready to read (but its worth it)
The class has a lot of work, but it is well-worth the time; Levitsky is a really great lecturer.
Professor Levitsky is an excellent lecturer and this class provides a solid foundation on a wide range of topics related to comparative politics.
Join a study group right away--it is impossible to read the required course materials all on your own.
Amazing intro to Gov class
You might not like how evaluations work, but the material itself is undeniably interesting and very useful for informed citizen in a global society.
Don't take the course for fun, but do take the course if you want to get better. The course will push you, but not crush you. Also, you will learn about comparitive politics, so that is always a plus.
You can go into this class, read little of the material, review section and lecture materials extensively, and probably still do decently (B+ to A- range for sure). But the class may be more meaningful for you (if actually interested in government) if you make the investment in time to actually read the materials. Also, you will definitely become a much better reader and note-taker in the process.
Be prepared for extreme amounts of readings. Not all of it is necessary, so be sure to ask your TF which to focus on.
It is a lot of reading, but if you do the work the class is rewarding.
Going to lecture is worth it regardless of the hour
There's a ton of reading. Honestly, the class doesn't really require that all the reading be done (Professor Levitsky does a fantastic job covering all the ideas in lecture), but the reading that is requested is really well chosen, so much so that it's a shame that I had to skim it.
Professor Levitksy is a fantastic lecturer and although there is a lot of reading, there are definitely ways to manage it. The class is definitely worth the work you put in.
Gov 20 will introduce you to a lot of material and not make you work particularly hard to make sense of it all except on two papers that are not worth very much of your ultimate grade. Levitsky is an excellent lecturer, and the fact that lectures are posted online and can be sped up with the "CS50 2x" plug-in makes the lecture component of this course its clear strong point.
Great class, even as a senior. People really overplay the workload and Levitsky is incredibly reasonable with exams, papers, etc. It's really not very hard, not curved, and people complain too much about the workload. 

Great class, great lectures, great readings. Take it!!!!
I think this class is an excellent way to start to figure out if you really want to concentrate in government. The way I see it, this is pretty interesting material taught by an incredible professor, so if you do not like this class gov might not be for you. The reading is almost absurd, there wasn't a single week that I finished all the reading confidently and completely. Overall, a great class if gov is your thing, pretty miserable if it is not.
I would strongly recommend that every student take this course. It is a very comprehensive class and the theories discussed are truly enlightening. Definitely take it!
Take this class if you want to learn something really useful andinteresting and if you want to listen to Levitsky's awesome lectures. Better not take itn when you don't want to read a lot of sources.
Levitsky is one of the best lecturers ever. If I had to choose one instance of civil society that I would participate in enthusiastically, it would be the Levitsky Fan Club
Great course with fascinating materials and a great teacher. It has too many readings though for an introductory course. It'll be a great experience. Not an easy A but very transformative in shaping the way you look at the world.
Levitsky is a great lecturer and some TFs can lead great discussion sections, so you'll learn a lot about political theory and interesting, important historical cases. That being said, the essays are a bit tough and the focus on the readings is frustrating.
This course was a great introduction to comparative politics, regardless of whether you intend to continue in that field. Levitsky is a great lecturer, and he has chosen readings specifically to give a good sampling of the world of comparative politics.
Take it if you are concentrating in Government. However, if you are interested in how the world works, it could be very helpful. After taking this class, your perspective around the world completely changes.
It's a very demanding class but in terms of difficulty it's definitely doable; more than any other course I've taken this term, I think you really get out of it what you put into it. I wasn't really planning on taking this class but did because Prof. Levitsky's going on sabbatical next year, and I'm so glad I did. I think it really opened my eyes to not just the facts but also the whys and hows of history and current events.
If you have even the slightest interest in any sort of politics, then taking this course is an absolutely fantastic way to satisfy that interest for a semester.
This course is great! Levitsky is amazing! But, be prepared for a lot of work (especially readings). This is one of those classes everyone should take!
This class succeeds in being engaging and informative in incredibly useful ways; I feel like a much more well informed citizen, student, and gov concentrator after taking it.  An interest in politics from more than a social point of view is definitely an asset.

Lectures are so engaging; Levitsky is the best.  I highly recommend you seek him out after class, whether through lunches with Levitsky or through his office hours.
Because primarily freshman take this class, TFs are particularly helpful on essays and holding large "how to study for gov" and "how to write for gov" sessions.  Rakeen is an especially fabulous TF, so well spoken, knowledgable, and helpful, so you're in for a treat if you get her.
Standard introductory gov course, you'll probably end up taking it anyway if you're thinking of gov.
This course was the hardest class that I've had to take, but only because I wanted to learn a lot from it.  I wanted to finish the readings and go to every lecture, which made it difficult to memorize or store a lot of information. Your knowledge is only tested in section, on 2 essays and 2 exams, which is easy to pass through by selectively reading. However, this course has a lot to offer when learning about the world and being familiar with different areas of the world, and the benefits and disadvantages of institutions and regimes that are different from our American ones.
It's interesting if you're willing to do the readings
The lectures are great, and it doesn't kill you with work.
Take it!!!!!!!!!!
This class is amazing and will change the way you look at the world. You get to engage with fascinating material and learn about a variety of political theories. You'll cover so much in this class. Levitsky is a fantastic lecturer and his lectures cover a ton of information, and they are also very enjoyable to listen to. Section tends to foster stimulating conversation, and the written assignments are very open-ended and enjoyable to write.
This class has a reputation for assigning an insane amount of reading, but the tests only expect you to know the content on a very superficial level. You don't need to do all the reading--just know one or two units in greater depth for the essays. But the reading, even if you only do a quarter half of it, is incredibly rewarding.
Gov 20 is a great course, mainly because of Levitsky. The material can be a bit dry, so you need to be interested in THEORY of government and politics, not simply the PRACTICE of it, in order to enjoy the class.
