This course delivers what it promises--you'll leave with a better understanding of the nature of politics in Brazil. You won't necessarily leave with an understanding of the ways scholars have developed their thought about Brazil, though--the course focuses more on history and description than scholarship and synthesis. When you're studying something as specific as the politics of Brazil, you probably aren't in the classroom because you're interested in spending 1/32th of your Harvard career learning something very specific. Rather, you're there because you hope that in studying something so specific you'll learn how to think about other subjects in new ways. I don't fault the course staff here--from day one, the emphasis on DRCLAS opportunities made it clear that this was a course intended for people interested in the topic, rather than the analytic traditions the topic is associated with. That's fine, but then maybe this course would be better as a seminar than a lecture course.
Heavy reading but good lectures
This course presents a solid survey of politics in Brazil. The readings can be dull at times, but Frances Hagopian is an excellent lecturer.
Very interesting course, but be ready for a lot of work.
This class is great to give you a general overview of Brazil's political sphere and how/why it became that way.
This is a great, comprehensive class on Brazil and Brazilian politics. Professor Hagopian is wonderful, and so is Seth if he's still the TF when this is next offered. It's good to have some knowledge and enthusiasm for Latin America or comparative politics. If you've taken Gov 1292, that's an added plus, since some of the subjects in this course take Gov 1292 concepts as a starting point and then delve deeper. None of this is necessary, though.
Very good comparative government course on a country that I at least had overlooked until now. Professor Hagopian's lectures are quite good, and Jonathan Phillips is a top notch TF. The reading load is rather high, but other than that, I would highly recommend it.
This class is quite comprehensive, covering most key historical moments and current topics in Brazilian politics. However, I found the experience to be underwhelming. This may have been due to my experience in section, which was not particularly vibrant. The work is certainly manageable. So, I would say it's definitely worth taking if you have a particular interest in Brazil, but don't expect it to be a life-changing course.
Really enjoyed the course. Definitely worth taking if you have any interest in Brazilian politics or you are just interested in comparative politics. Spend a good deal of time in the course discussing modern day issues
The class is very engaging and interesting.
This is perhaps one of the best organized classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Hagopian is a great lecturer and provides lecture outlines that introduce and conclude the main topics addressed. You need to go to lecture in order to appreciate the brilliance that is this class. Sections are also very effective at honing political science critical thinking skills. I came in with no background knowledge of government or political science and left feeling like I can effectively analyze what's going on in Brazilian politics and society today. If you're really in it to learn, office hours are a great and useful resource. Workload was normal, difficulty depends on how much you're invested in learning.
Take this class! You will not regret it!
Very good class if you're interested in Brazil, not only in its politics. It may be somewhat repetitive if you already spent some time in the country, but the way the course is structured and the readings will help a lot in consolidating a more nuanced and sophisticated picture of the country.
Do not miss a single class. It is a privilege to attend a class with enjoyable lectures and well organized talking points. The organization of the lectures facilitated note taking and made it easy to follow. The lectures were packed with fascinating details. Professor Hagopian not only summarized all of the readings but also went in depth with details on her personal thoughts and interpretations of the data/findings, personal experience in Brazil and offered additional insight into her colleagues' perspectives as well. It is very clear that she cares a lot about the subject and in her students understanding and appreciate of it.
This is the type of course where the readings are not too difficult or too many and lectures can be mostly interesting. If Jonathan is still the TF, his section seriously makes the course.
This was a solid gov lecture course. Lectures were fairly interesting, section was well-run, the workload was decent...I think you get what you put into this class, and I found a lot of the students disengaged (maybe the result of having a big lecture course geared mainly towards upperclassmen). Nevertheless, if you're interested in Brazil and politics, it's a well organized course with some interesting subject material.
Material can get confusing but broad concepts are very interesting.
Honestly, I've never had any interest in Brazil until I shopped this class and Professor Hagopian argued why I should. Brazil is intriguing for so many reasons and it was great developing an interest in it. I would definitely recommend this class. It's straightforward and the material is very manageable.
It's actually disappointingly easy if you're really interested in Latin America, but it's a good class if you want a low-key introduction to some comparative politics
This class has a lot of information that is extremely interesting. However, it can be difficult to capture in lectures because material is spoken and not written on visual slides.
Reading not the best but lecture clears up most of the confusion.
Lectures are pretty confusing so make sure you do the readings and go to section!
This class is suitable.
Anyone who wishes to know about the B in BRICS should take this course. It is not hard. Try to at least skim the readings every week. Take notes and do not miss the lectures. Professor Hagopian has a gift for summarizing vast quantities of information into one-hour segments. Avoid doing your one-page memos at the end of the semester. The sections are very good, but you will probably get the most out of the TA during office hours.   Go to Prof. Hagopian at least once for her office hours, and do not be afraid to ask about anything surrounding Brazil.
If you're at all interested in Brazil, definitely check out this class. It gives you an awesome introduction to the crazy politics of Brazil and Professor Hagopian is more knowledgable about the country then probably most Brazilians. It provides a great perspective for the country and teaches you about general politics in the process!
The TF and Professor were very knowledgeable and did a great job with the class. Only take if you are legitimately interested in Brazil though. Competing with many students from South America who know their stuff. Readings are interesting and not too many assignments. Pretty good overall
Brazil is a country with an extremely interesting and relevant political history. However, the course was overly ambitious in the amount of readings and the content the professor tried to cram into lecture. The class went over time nearly every day. While the course wasn't difficult per se, I would only recommend if you have a strong interest in Brazil and/or Latin America. The reading load was bordering on excessive, and I found it difficult to even figure out which readings to prioritize for each week.
The class is very interesting if you want to know more about Brazil. Lectures are very good.
Professor Hagopian's passion for Brazil is infectiousget ready to be carried away! Keep that interest in mind, too, as you trudge through some of the (occasional) more technical and tedious readings. It's worth it.
This class was a very interesting tour of the government, politics, history, and economy of Brazil. I came away with much more familiarity with Brazil. The assignments and exam policies are very fair and the class is very organized around different themes/topics. The reading load is a fair amount  not heavy but enough to convey the relevant information. Professor Hagopian is also amazing  not only is she very knowledgeable about Brazilian and Latin American politics, she is also surprisingly nice, friendly, and very approachable.If you are in any way interested in Brazil, then I would recommend this course. If you are interested in Latin America, I also recommend this course because of Brazil's importance to the region.
Professor Hagopian did an excellent job at presenting the subject matter in an enthusiastic way. The course walked us through Brazil's history leading to today.
This is a fantastic course with content that everyone should know about.  Just be prepared for some serious challenges on the final and tough grading on the papers.
A rich introduction to the history and politics of Brazil, which I'd recommend to anyone interested in this amazing country. And Hagopian's so knowledgeable!
Really interesting class, not too much work. Go to class and take notes and you won't have any trouble on papers or the final.
While there is plenty of reading, everything is pertinent to the discussion and helps to build a fuller understanding of contemporary Brazilian culture.
Good not only if you're interested in Brazil, but if you'd like to see what it looks like to delve into the dynamics of a country you've had no prior exposure to.
interesting material, engaging lecturer and section
Engaging and important for anyone who wants to work in/be involved with Brazil.
This course was interesting. I'd say take it if you're really interested in Brazil. There is a good bit of reading, but you can definitely make it through without doing all of it.
