I would steer away from this course. Grading is overly harsh. However the readings were interesting. You are better off reading the books and articles in the syllabus in your free time.
This is a wonderful course. The topic is extremely interesting and applicable to so many avenues in life; this course does a good job in explaining at least the psychological foundation of many social structures and, in turn, how those social structures affect individuals' beliefs and behaviors. Kris-Stella does a great job of running class and class discussions were often fascinating. In addition, the course materials/assigned readings were almost always very interesting. The last essay was fairly long, but the rest of the course wasn't too difficult and the relative freedom in topic choice for the final paper was certainly nice and actually made it a fun paper to research.

Overall, great course.
Kris-Stella is an excellent teacher and the course is really interesting. The readings are very interesting and the only really difficult task is the final paper.
Kris-Stella was a wonderful instructor! She knew the material well and was incredibly passionate about the subject. However, it was often difficult to gage what the overall purpose of the course was. If you are interested in political psychology, take the course! If not, try exploring other government courses as you try to narrow down your interest within the concentration.
Kris-Stella is awesome! The two hour discussion per week goes by really quickly because all the weekly tops are so interesting. A very fair course. Definitely take.
This class has definitely been my favorite one! Kris-Stella is not only as enthusiastic as you, but she is incredibly relatable and has so much knowledge to offer the class! The class is great because it really makes you think to understand and apply what is learned elsewhere in your life, which is where all the fun lies because its amazing to see how learning a little about psychology can help you really understand society and individuals as a whole. The information that you gain from the readings in this course is astounding! Definitely do the readings as you learn a lot from them and they are super interesting. Plus as a once a week course, it definitely does not require much work from you other than when the two papers are due or when readings are due (in any case you have a week to do them). Trust me this course will change how you look at the world and how you see people.
Take this class! Your eyes will be opened!
This, course is an EXCELLENT way to get engage with extremely interesting and pertinent social issues, and also gives you the tools to think of tangible solutions to the problems discussed. In that sense, it is a really good mix of the theoretical and the practical, and will appeal to those who want to understand the mechanisms behind the interactions between individuals and their society, and how those mechanisms can be changed, adjusted, improved etc.One thing to bear in mind is that this course is pretty heavy on social psychology, and a bit light on politics/political theory.
Kris-Stella is AMAZING. She's extremely passionate, and she conducts the course extremely well. The  course themes are extremely interesting, and I always enjoyed discussion. Definitely take this course if the syllabus sounds interesting to you! It's very psychology-heavy.
Take it - Kris-Stella is amazing and the class discussion is always fascinating. We talk about topics that are sometimes difficult to discuss openly - like race and class, from an informed perspective and I always find myself thinking about things we talked about in class throughout the day. There wasn't that much reading and I always looked forward to doing it. The 2 paper assignments were very fun to work on - you can explore any issue that is interesting to you.
This course was great -- we got the chance to study some interesting themes in political psychology in depth, with lots of concrete examples and powerful questions about how we should treat individuals in relation to society. Definitely recommend.
This definitely struck me as more of a psychology course than a government course. I think the government aspect of the class gets less and less relevant as the semester progresses. That being said, the class is low maintenance in the amount of reading and the two essays are definitely manageable. Discussion is exciting and interesting, based less on the actual readings and more on your relevant experiences. Great seminar if you are equally interested in psych and government.
