Definitely take this course if you are at all interested in the Caucasus or Central Asia. Professor Weber and Matt do a great job of making class and section very interesting. Further, you do NOT need to have taken Professor Weber's course on Russia to do well in this course.
This course is a fantastic introduction to a part of the world you may know nothing about (though students with experience in the Caucasus and Central Asia find plenty to enjoy as well). Professor Weber and Matt really make the course. They are both passionate, knowledgeable, and kind! I chose to take this class to supplement my knowledge in Russia. You will be best served by this course if you have an interest in Russian politics and some general knowledge of Soviet history. I am really glad I chose to take this class with Prof. Weber because it filled in a major gap in my political knowledge through really interesting and engaging lectures. You do not need a passion for Kyrgyzstan to enjoy this course- simply an interest in Russia or the region.This course uses comparative and IR theories but no political science experience is necessary. The workload is manageable and very typical of Gov courses. The first half of the course focuses on history of the region and the second half examines modern political situations in depth, which I found more interesting.
It'll make you interested in a region you may have never heard about.
Waaaay too many pages of reading. This is a typical Gov problem, but oh my goodness, can we please just assign the pages that are going to be relevant? It is still just so intimidating and paralyzing to see such huge numbers and have no idea how to sift through them. Demoralizing, but lecture helps to clarify to some degree.Some political science background, especially some knowledge of theory, will take you a long way. I imagine Gov concentrators have an easier time in general, but Gov 20 made a big difference for me as a non-gov concentrator.
If you are looking for an in depth look into Central Asia and the Caucasus, this isn't really the class for you. Very broad overview of all of the countries, with possibly too much for us on Russia. Though if you want an intro to the region, it's history, and it's relationship with Russia, this is definitely a great class to take!
i went into the class thinking it'd be more about contemporary politics in central asia and the caucasus. i wish the history unit had been shorter. many of the readings are interesting.
Dr. Weber is an exceptional professor. He made the course very enjoyable and interesting. Matt is an incredible TF who was always accessible. The material is also very new and many times comical. Overall,, excellent course - highly recommend!
This is a really fantastic class, I don't know if it will be taught again anytime soon because Dr. Weber is a visiting prof, but hopefully it will! A lotttttttt of reading, but all of it is super interesting.
Good class, but it does repeat a lot from GOV 1244.
