Sumeeta is one of the best teachers I've ever had. This class is very suitable for grad students who have already completed in-depth research in a certain area, however, it is also good exposure for undergrads. Sumeeta is very fair and works with each student to maximize their experience in the course. She is incredibly helpful and understanding.
Great if you want to get into GIS. Don't worry about taking a beginner GIS, you can easily catch up with the class.
Take this class!
If you've taken Gov 1008 or equivalent, this is a wonderful course. It's best if you have a project in mind for another class or some outside project.
GIS is a great skill to have, and is well worth taking. Sumeeta is a great teacher and you will surely learn a lot from your peers.
really interesting and applied research tool
You need a working knowledge of statistics and arcGIS, but Sumeeta is really helpful
This is an excellent course that gives you the skills to conduct your own research using spatial models.  It requires significant time outside of class if you are not already familiar with ArcGIS, but it is well worth it if you are interested in studying social or economic policy that has a geographic component.  The lectures are useful, and the lab exercises are extremely helpful.
course is a fantastic opportunity to learn and apply geospatial skills and techniques that are interesting and relevant to a wide range of fields. Students are involved in a variety of disciplines, so learning about others' final projects is very interesting.
This class deals with a broad issues regarding spatial models and provides a chance to take a look at different topics every week. Lab exercise is well organized, class materials are excellent, and if you have some knowledge on quantitative analysis, it will be more than helpful.
This was a small class and the quality varied enormously based on how many of my classmates were pounding away on their laptops, completely absorbed in tasks unrelated to class discussion.
This class is almost entirely populated by graduate students. Be prepared to commit a very large amount of time to this class.
take this class if you have a spatial analysis based project already in mind.
This is a great class. You need to be organized and finish assignments as you go, rather than putting them off.  But Sumeeta gives you the flexibility to learn on your own time, which is awesome.
I have never been more academically engaged at Harvard than by this class. Sumeeta is a great instructor who really cares about her students and their work. Class discussions were always interesting and you will learn a lot. The class, unlike so many at Harvard, provides you with useful practical skills.
This is an excellent class, but you have to work hard to make the best out of it.
This class is good if you want to get a flavor of spatial analysis and a chance to start a project while getting some guidance. It is not good if you are seeking a deep statistical understanding of spatial models.
Do all your labs on time and use your own data each time. It will make the final project super easy! Finalize your idea early on.
It is a great course but would be more beneficial with some prerequisites. It would be a struggle without prior knowledge of GIS AND/OR statistics.
the lectures are not so good but the labs are very well prepared and there is help if you need it.... and these are skills that are being demanded in the job market
Great if you have a project to practice the techniques with.
Very self-motivated course. You have to be willing to really the put the time into teaching yourself the methods covered in the labs.
The class is an excellent overview of how GIS can be applied to research questions. The material can be quite dense, but it is worth the work.
For anyone looking to using GIS software for more than just simple mapping, this is an essential class to expanding your toolkit and making you more versatile as someone who can process, interpret and visualize data.
This course provides a great overview of applied spatial analysis.  In addition to covering a lot of material, it offers a great opportunity to work on your own spatial analysis project which solidifies concepts in a practical manner.
Really interesting and useful material. One of the chillest (but also smartest) professors around. Sumeeta is the best!
This course - and all of Sumeeta's courses - is among the most interesting and useful courses at Harvard. A large portion of the class consists of graduate students (at the GSD, Department of Government, etc.), which makes the discussions in this course far more engaging and instructive than those in most courses. Sumeeta is an excellent lecturer who make difficult concepts accessible and interesting - and, she is always available to provide advice and guidance outside of class! The work is time-consuming, but not overwhelmingly difficult and certainly not dull. And, you become very familiar with GIS software by the end of the course!
Gov 1016 is a great methods course where you can expand your GIS knowledge. The format of the course (very little time spent in classroom + different choices on work submitted) is incredibly versatile and makes the course work nicely with a demanding course-load. That is not to say that this is an easy class--the small amount of hours per week spent in the classroom is easily made up for in the lab on your own, particularly if GIS is new for you.Also, Sumeeta is a fantastic teacher who is incredibly passionate about seeing her students succeed and pursue their own interests using the tools she gives them. You get out of this course what you put into it, and seeking out Sumeeta during OH and open lab hours is an incredibly wise choice, as she is a bastion of knowledge on the subject.
This is a great class if you're interested in learning more about GIS. This is a very applied approach. Most of the learning is done through weekly lab exercises (only 5 are required), and the final project is very rewarding. Textbook and lectures are less useful. Overall, not too time consuming and a really great class. Also, Sumeeta is a great professor, she makes time to help and answer your questions if you need it.
Extremely useful and well-run class! The instructor is fantastic and really helpful!
