It will teach you more than you ever wanted to know about Central Eastern Europe. It is excellent!
This class is GREAT, in terms of the interesting materials covered, the interesting readings, and knowledgable, clear, enthusiastic instructers.
This course is great - reasonable workload, great teaching staff, and interesting topics.
This is a good introduction to comparative politics, it is interesting even if you are not that interested in Eastern Europe.
Do the readings and try and go to the movie viewings. Definitely go to lectures, they are great! There is a fair amount of reading, but it is all very relevant and straightforward. Try not to fall behind on it and make a study guide group for the mid-term and final to help study!
I enjoyed this course but struggled through it as I was simultaneously trying to learn the ever-changing geography and politics of an entire region and the terminology for comparative politics.  I would suggest to students thinking about taking this course to get a head start on readings and to never fall behind as the readings are very important to understanding lecture.
Take it. You'll be able to speak about this region in all of your other gov. and social science classes with an authoritative grasp (no pun intended).
Very good professor. Is able to give an introduction to comparative politics while explaining Eastern European development.
This is a fantastic class. If you're interested in Eastern Europe, it's communist past and the present-day legacies, then this provides a great survey of the last 100 years in what is one of the most interesting regions of the world. Ruxandra and Prof. Ekiert are both excellent, and really generate enthusiasm about the subject matter.
Absolutely fantastic government class. Teaches you the ins and outs of comparative government via an extremely interesting region and time period.
Do all the readings. Familiarize yourself with the history of the region. Most of the class covers the theory on why the history turned out in a particular way, so you need know the history. Very general ideas and topics covered.
Very interesting subject matter
i don't think i learned too much that i couldn't have learned from reading various things online about the issues, but the staff is awesome and it's not a hard class so it might be worth taking
Take this class if you are interested! There are a lot of readings!
If you're new to the study of Eastern Europe, you'll like the course. If you know about the area, you might find the lectures and discussion a bit basic.
Really awesome course if you are interested in this region. Reading might be a little heavy sometimes.
This course is wonderful if you have significant interest in Eastern Europe and its history. Professor Ekiert is very well-informed and interesting, and his personal stories about Poland during the time period really help to bring the politics and history of the region to life. A great gov course!
Very great course if you want to learn an overview of Eastern Central Europe. A lot of the topics we covered in class are applicable to today, especially the current Euro Crisis and the overall economic backwardness of Eastern Europe. The class is not work-rigorous but does require consistent effort. The readings are not that much relative to other classes, but again, they require you to stay on top of your readings.
It's an interesting class, and its small size is definitely refreshing, especially for a gov class, but if you've already taken a comparative politics class before, I would probably recommend considering a different class.  You'll learn about specific things about Eastern Europe, but you probably won't learn any new concepts or ways of thinking if you've already taken Gov 20 or 1295 or something like it.
Not difficult, but at times dull introduction to modern East/Central Europe.
This class is a wonderful introduction to political institutions, capitalist structures, and Eastern Europe. I enjoyed both the lecture and discussion element. Ekiert is an engaging and interesting lecturer and presents the information succinctly and easy to follow. If you don't have much background knowledge of the area it would be a good idea to grab a history book and do some skimming.
Background information on the history of Central and Eastern would have been very helpful at the beginning of the class. At the begging of the course, the quantity of material was quite overwhelming because I didn't have any background. But the lectures are wonderful and interesting and provide a really interesting introduction to comparative politics in general not only to european politics. You learn a lot but you have do the readings to understand what's going on even though they are time consuming.
This was one of my favorite Government classes- it offers a unique perspective on a region that has not received sufficient attention. Professor Ekiert is a great lecturer and it is very refreshing to get an Eastern European perspective of democratization.
Although it is a comparative government class and that is certainly a component, it is a very grounded experience. There is almost no straight theory for much of the class works on specific cases of national transition and decision making which provides an excellent lens to apply a comparative analysis. I took this class without taking Gov 20 and through the clarity of lecture and the efforts of the TF I never felt lost or behind. This is a great and fascinating experience that should not be missed.
This course is great. It involves a bit of reading, but totally manageable. The lectures are not boring but can get a bit dry since no one seems to engage the professor. The staff is great and enthusiastic. The best times in lectures were when Professor Ekiert would tell anecdotes. At the same point though, you can get lost in the details and the region is fairly complex so pay attention.
Very interesting subject, theoretically, but the class scattered and unclear. I would not recommend taking this unless you really, really want (or need) to.
This class is one of those diamonds in the rough that you occasionally find in the Gov department. There were only 20 students or so, which made lectures much more personal and interesting. The with one paper, a midterm, and a final, this class is pretty easy but also very interesting. If you ever wanted to learn about the rise and fall of communism in Eastern Europe, or wanted to expand your knowledge of comparative government, this class is for you!
Be prepared for a lot of reading that may or may not apply to the course. Lecture is interesting, but overall, the course can seem very disjointed. If you are interested in Eastern Europe, this is a good foundational course (there aren't many others out there). However, this may not necessarily bridge the gap between seeming overly theoretical and vague and overly specific.
The tests are straightforward, the reading is easy to get through (though sometimes the ideas are challenging), the professor puts everything into perspective in a way that actually enhances the material, and the material is extremely relevant to understanding Europe.
If you are interested in politics and political history and are interested in the region, I would strongly encourage anyone to take this course. Lots of courses focus on Western Europe, and some focus on the former Soviet Union, but few focus on the middle region in between. I felt like I got a very good sense of Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania, and especially Poland through the course (Ekiert is after all Polish). The workload is very reasonable, and the course material is interesting.
This course provides an outstanding exposure to communist regimes in Central and Eastern European countries and the subsequent transitions in these countries post-1989.  Prof. Ekiert is an outstanding professor and lecturer.  Especially if you are interested in or from the region, I could not recommend this course highly enough.  This course has given me a much better appreciation for a topic I have always wanted to know more about but was largely ignorant of.
This is a great exercise in comparative thinking on a fascinating though often overlooked part of the world.
This is an excellent class that provides exposure to political science topics in democratization.  Prof. Ekiert is a great instructor and has provided the most thorough feedback on paper topic proposals that I have gotten at Harvard.  Sections are excellent (undergrads meet with TA, grads meet with Prof E).
An excellent comparative evaluation of the evolution of Central Eastern Europe and its political landscape.
The class is challenging but if you're willing to put the time into it, you'll have a deep understanding of the issues in Central and Eastern Europe. Professor Ekiert is very knowledgeable and has personal experience with the issues he lectures on.
This class really does require a background in Eastern European History.  And while Professor Ekiert is a fantastic academic and clearly has very important views on the subject material, the class at times seemed dull and slightly repetitive.
This class is a good survey of Central and Eastern European politics, which seems to be somewhat of an understudied region in most introductory courses. The professor is very personable and knowledgeable, and the material is interesting. The readings are a weakness though, as many of them are lacking in structure both internally (IE, being poorly written/unfocused passages) and among each other (IE, lacking in unifying themes)
Professor Ekiert is an excellent and engaging professor and overall does a very good job presenting the material. The course is an excellent opportunity to learn about an incredibly important topic in a thorough and fun fashion. Would definitely recommend taking it.
Professor Ekiert is a great lecturer and you learn a lot about a region that is so rarely discussed yet so important in Europe.
As long as you're interested in the subject, it's a great class. Interesting topics, informative readings, great teaching staff. These are stories that often get neglected for those of larger countries, like Russia and the U.S. An important and fascinating class.
the work's not that bad, the professor is very informative. it helps that he's Polish so he has some personal stories to tell about the transition
This class was taught by a great professor and the subject matter is very interesting.
Prof. Ekiert is a fantastic professor, tells riveting stories during lecture, and is very engaged with the course material.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard.  It is not overly challenging, but it is extremely interesting.  The class itself is not too big, and the section TF and professor are AMAZING and truly care for their students.  Dominika is one of the best TFs I have ever had at Harvard.  The subject is important and something I had not learned about before.
This is an excellent course for anyone interested in geopolitics, Europe, and history.
If you are interested in the Eastern European region, definitely take this class! If you are not too interested in the region and are just looking for an elective, however, you are better off taking something else.
If you have some knowledge of East Central Europe and an interest in developmental politics and economics in both history and current events, this is a perfect course. Straight forward, informative, and hones critical thinking.
The readings are very necessary -- some are very general and just give definitions, and others provide arguments, which are very important.  They are important for the paper and the essays on the midterm/final.
This class provides a good survey of Eastern Europe. One of its successes is that it leaves you wondering if a survey course about Eastern Europe makes sense--the region is so diverse that it many not make sense to teach about a subject this broad.
This class was a good class. Learned pretty interesting stuff about the region. I wish that the assignments were less vague and also after spring break, the topics and enthusiasm for the course declined.
This is a fun, easy class that provide you with a lot of fun cases to examine comparative politics, especially cases of transition. The teaching staff is also really fun and relaxed and kind.
This is a very interesting course and covers a lot of material.
This class is a really incredible one -- definitely take it if you are at all interested in Eastern Europe or comparative politics. It makes you think about international relations in a very different way, and I am so happy I took it. Professor Ekiert and Dominika are so kind and really incredible.
This class will give you a good overview of an interesting region. Professor Ekiert is an effective lecturer, and Dominika is a good TF. They are both Polish, and their personal experiences often added to the conversation/debate. It is also a very laid-back class.
Amazing class! Professor Ekiert is very knowledgeable and tells his personal stories during the class. TF Dominika makes the sections very enjoyable and the discussions are always interesting. Definitely recommend if you have any interest in the Central and Eastern European region!
Its a fairly easy enough course, and doesn't require a ton of background. Keep in mind that a lot of the information is very much one man's opinion (the professor), so feel free to push back in the course.
This is a great class! If you are at all interested in history, politics, or Eastern Europe take this class!!
I learned a great deal in this course in a really enjoyable way. Professor Ekiert is an excellent professor and is really knowledgable about the content. Dominika was also a wonderful TF and really did a great job making section interesting and enjoyable. I highly recommend this class whether or not you are interested in the region - you'll learn a lot!
If you have any interest in the region, you should take this course. It will open your eyes to the complexity of the region. The course starts out reviewing the region's history, which proves very useful in understanding later developments. Finally, Professor Ekiert's lectures are very entertaining and Dominika is one of the best TFs I have ever had at Harvard. Take this course!
Great class - Prof. Ekiert is extremely knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the subject and Dominika is a great TF. Lectures and readings can feel a little Poland-centric rather than discussing the whole region, so if you have an interest in other nations in the course's purview, it takes a little extra effort to find detailed cases (usually located in the additional recommended readings.)
Great teacher, great material, Prof Ekiert has a good sense of humor too.
Absolutely. Best class I've taken at Harvard! Wish I could take anther taught by either Prof. Ekiert or George
Doing all the readings deeply is unnecessary. Attending all classes and sections while skimming most readings and reading selectively is best. MEMORIZE the timelines of these countries, without the history, nothing makes sense.
You have to do the work, but it's a very intriguing class.
This class is one of Harvard's more hidden pearls - the material is fascinating, the professor is extremely interesting and good, and yet it's still quite a small class.
Its easy and interesting and fun!
Great class and very interesting subject matter. A great elective or government requirement to fill. Prof. Ekiert's first hand knowledge and anecdotes really set this class apart and help personify the material.
This course is a great introduction to comparative politics and has lively lectures; however, one looking for a thorough political study of the region would be disappointed.
Extremely interesting class. Very enjoyable. Not only a fascinating region, but touches on important issues of the past century and today. Good to have this knowledge. Fun Gov class.
