I would highly recommend this class for future students! The class material is fascinating and is really accessible to students from a variety of backgrounds. You leave this class with not only a deeper understanding of civil society, but you also come away with a new perspective and way of thinking about social science issues. Professor Pharr is such an incredible teacher, and her commitment to her students is inspiring, and it makes a difference. Professor Pharr has such incredible background and experience in the field, and her insights make the class such a meaningful academic experience! Professor Pharr really does a great job of teaching students how to think from a research perspective and to analyze issues through a critical lens. This class was wonderful!
Do not take this course if you want an "easy" seminar. This course makes you work very hard, but it is very rewarding. This class has nothing to do with globalization, so don't let the title mislead you. You will become an expert at civil society and more importantly, learn how to develop your research/writing. Be prepared to work hard in this class. Professor Pharr knows more than you can imagine and is possibly the nicest professor at Harvard. This is worth it!
This course is really useful if you are interested in civil society. We go through a lot of literature, both theoretical or empirical - in my opinion, there was too much reading every week, but at the same time, it's good to have more than less. Discussions in class were a little too structured; Professor Pharr had a clear idea of what topics or points she wanted to cover each week, which is good and bad-- good because you get a basic idea of what each reading is about, but bad because we couldn't go very in-depth with these discussions.
Best class I took at Harvard
This is not a class to slack off in. Professor Pharr is one of the best teachers at Harvard. In addition to being incredibly accomplished and interesting, you can tell she really cares about her undergrad seminar. Her comments on our assignments were always prompt and incredibly thorough. I really had to work to get through the readings and write papers up to her expectations, but at the same she is one of those teachers who you want to do a good job for. One of my hardest classes yet, and without a doubt one of the best.
This is one of the best seminar-style classes at Harvard. Professor Pharr is not only extremely intelligent and incisive - she is also kind, funny, and genuinely eager to help you improve your writing and understanding of current issues. The material is very interesting and strikes a good balance between theory and application - while the beginning of the course might move slowly for some, the first half of the course builds a solid conceptual foundation for application and interesting case studies in the second half of the course. The research project gives you a lot of freedom to investigate a topic that interests you. The discussions are also very insightful, but you do get what you invest (i.e. do the readings if you'd like to contribute meaningfully to the discussion).
