Pretty interesting course that explores the intersection of law and politics. Professor Liviatan is incredibly enthusiastic and really cares about the subject material. If you are into law and/or politics, it is a good course to take. If not, I probably wouldn't, but I enjoyed the course overall.
I really enjoyed this class! The workload is more than manageable, and you learn a lot. Professor Leviatan is a great teacher.
This seminar is one of the best I have ever taken. Professor Liviatan really takes you on a journey through the law, and at the end of it, you learn something really interesting (I'll leave you to find out what). Professor Liviatan is incredibly helpful with everything and she is always willing to give advice on projects. If you get the chance, definitely give this class a go!
This was the best government department class I have taken at Harvard: Professor Liviatan is friendly and incredibly engaged. She is truly interested in learning what you want to argue about, and the freedom to write about a topic that you enjoy makes the course extremely valuable.
Professor Liviatan generates a lot of enthusiasm for the subject matter. Take this class is you have any interest in the law and in multiculturalism. The course is mind-opening but will make you very skeptical of the American legal system.
The readings were organized in a way that brought us on an intellectual journey. I found that almost all the readings in this class re-molded the ways I think about judicial systems across the world. Ofrit is an organized and demanding lecturer, and she's willing to provide you with an enriching learning experience if you're willing to put in the work such an experience requires. My view of the American judicial system was tossed on its head by this class. If you want to open your mind, learn, and think critically about judicial systems, this is the course for you. Ofrit is also hilarious and a fantastic educator. This course, while unrelated to my focus field, gave me a more liberal understanding of the world. So, if that's your goal, take this course. I am not a Gov concentrator, though most were.
This is a great course to take if you have already taken Constitutional Law (with Professor Richard Fallon), but some topics & cases you will read could be confusing if you do not have background knowledge. Expect that the majority of students would already be well-versed in law & legal issues.
Be prepared to really work with the materials in this class, but you will come out have learned so much and knowing how to really engage with dense social science readings.
If you have the chance to take this course with Professor Livitan, please by all means do. Livitan is fantastic, dynamic, and engaging. If you're looking for a class that throws your arguments back in your face and teaches you how to think like a lawyer, this is it. I learned so much topically, and learned to think critically about the systems societies subscribe to. I loved this class. The workload was very manageable (two papers), and the discussions were never boring or irrelevant. The in-class simulations were hilarious and insightful.
This course is incredible. Ofrit is an amazing thinker and lecturer and is very friendly (if a little intimidating at first) with students. I found that this course challenged my worldview, challenged me academically (it is difficult, and you'll want to have done all the readings very carefully), and challenged my writing and research skills...basically everything you want out of a seminar! I also feel that I now have a very solid understanding of the intellectual background of the topic of the course, multiculturalism, law and politics. Be prepared to spend a lot of time talking about judicial review, however. Also in-class debates were low pressure and the writing assignments were easy and interesting since the topics were completely left up to us. Ofrit isn't often available outside of class, but make an effort to get to know her personally! Out of all my Harvard courses, this one ranks among the highest in my esteem.
You should have a strong interest in the law or the desire to learn a lot about the law. The class also rewards those who speak up in class. Liviatan's office hours are a must!!! They are limited too which really sucks. Make sure to cite the authors in class. Liviatan is big on "standing on the shoulders of giants"
This is a wonderful class, and you learn a lot about how the legal system works, how different cultures approach legal problems, and which problems / questions about multiculturalism and law persist. I do wish that we had more assignments though, just so we had more opportunities to get Ofrit's feedback and engage with the course material in different ways. Ofrit is a kind, approachable, and provocative instructor, and I really enjoyed the class.
Be prepared for some challenging discussions. Professor Liviatan will expect and will demand your very best. But as long as you do your reading and show up prepared, it will be a very rewarding learning experience.
Dr. Liviatan is a ton of fun.  She has high expectations and pushes you to think critically, which is makes for a good learning experience.
Ofrit is fantastic!
This class is a broad perspective of the interaction of law and society, overviewing the various schools of the legal thought and cases as examples of the theories. The main research paper is 70% of your grade which is a bit intimidating, but Ofrit does a good job of guiding you through the first steps. You will want to put more time in during that phase so that it doesn't come to her last office hours and you still are developing your data.
This class was a great comparative look at law in multicultural democracies and a strong introduction into many legal theories. The readings were interesting and engaged many big legal questions, like what the role and purpose of law is, what justice is, if the legal system achieves justice, and how to deal with the rights of minorities in multicultural societies. I always liked coming to class because the discussion was provocative, engaging, and challenged my beliefs in a constructive way. Professor Liviatan is awesome: she knows a lot, can foster class discussion very well, and works really hard to help us do our best and support us in the class and in our learning.
Very interesting and fun course.  It can be very frustrating and sometimes unsatisfying, but hey, so is the nature of asking questions about law.  There are still times I think the professor, the readings, or the other students were wrong, and there are times I realize I was wrong, but mostly I just left the class more intelligently confused, and excited to continue to study the topics.  I highly recommend it, especially if you're not afraid to argue.
This course will open your mind to alternative solutions to questions of justice in the real world. It offers a fascinating challenge to the theoretical justification of the American system that I think we have all internalized, at least to some extent.
Great class!  Prof. Liviatan is wonderful.
this is an incredibly interesting class. Professor Liviatan is a very engaging teacher and facilitates fascinating conversations.
Prof Liviatan really makes you think about issues that sometimes seem pretty theoretical in nature, but truly affect the way minorities, cultures, and groups of people in our country and around the world should be treated legally.  I learned a lot about different court systems and social/cultural dilemmas that sometimes conflict or put pressure on our reliance of courts and legislature.  Always very intriguing discussions (class went by so fast!) and interesting readings.  A good amount of work, but totally doable... the best feedback on your essays and very reasonable grading!
This course is a lot of fun and you learn a lot! It was a great introduction to how law works, judicial review, different ways that different countries approach the relationship between the judiciary and the legislature/rest of the country, and you get a healthy smattering of specific cases, too. Professor Liviatan is AWESOME and you will be engaged and laughing and learning the whole time! The reading is also very manageable, there was never too much to finish unless I waited until the night before to start.
Great class! The topics are really I interesting and Prof. Liviatan is great at facilitating a good discussion. You will love the readings.. Unfortunately due to the lack of diversity of student opinion the prof. often had to step in to debate other perspectives. It would be really neat to have guests with differing ideologies defend their positions or more diversity in the student  political makeup of the class.
This is a great course for people interested in going to law school. It is really eye-opening about the way law actually works in society. The way the Professor approaches the term paper I don't think is particularly effective, though. She want to create a "friendly, non-graded setting," but her feedback during the process was vague and basically useless. I'm leaving this course basically feeling more confused about government writing than I was at the beginning.
I would encourage anyone to take it. You have a chance to talk about controversial government policy. You also get to compare American policy to the policy of other countries. You talk about things like gay marriage and the separation of church and state.
