This class should be taken by comparativists interested in specializing in Latin America or doing cross-regional comparisons. Material a bit heavy for those only interested in taking one comparative course as an elective.
The course is very useful for anyone interested in Latin American politics, and its a great opportunity to learn from two top scholars in the field.  However, be prepared to spend a LOT of time reading!
The best way to learn how to do comparative politics.
If you are doing comparative politics and one of your cases is a LA country, this curse is a must.
this class will give you a thorough background on both the history and current affairs of the political and economic functioning of the region. It will provide you with an good grasp of the political science literature produced during the last few decades and a nuanced understanding of its major debates.
Any graduate student interested in Latin America should check this course out.
Excellent course.  it is very time consuming but worth it.
One cannot ask for a course more intensive in its analysis of Latin American political and economic development. It behooves any would-be Latin Americanist to take this course.
Be prepared for a ton of reading, but you will learn a great deal about Latin American politics, especially from World War II on. The professors also do a good job of including recent, cutting edge research, along with classic works.
This is a great course to build an in-depth knowledge of Latin American politics, but the reading and assignments require a significant time commitment.  I learned a lot from the course and felt like class discussions were enlightening, but you must be prepared to contribute in such a small seminar.
This a great survey of research on Latin American politics.  The reading load is extremely heavy, however, and it is taught as a field seminar.
a good introduction to scholarship on latin america that is also relevant for students with other regional interests
There is alot of reading, but it's a very useful course for a comparativist, even if the region of focus is not latin america.
The more you know about Latin America, the better this course will be for you. But its still a good course to take if you want to get more comparative politics background and don't have a strong Latin America background. Its designed and taught in a way that allows you to still get a lot out of it. I found it very useful, even though I don't study LA.
One of the best courses about Latin America at Harvard. One of the best courses I've taken. The professors are accessible, friendly, and know so much. You never stop learning in this class.
