Yes, certainly
If you hope to learn civil society, I would definitely recommend this course. The course can fulfill your expectations of all levels as the Professors are truly good. You do need to spend enough time if you hope to get the most out of the course, especially if you are a non-native speaker. You can learn a lot as long as you work hard on your readings, in lectures and discussions, and go to office hours.
Not a course to be missed!
This course was outstanding because professors provide excellent feedback on your papers and because a student can rethink that civil society is an important actor to provide "public service".
An excellent class to introduce you to a wide selection of literature on civil society.
It is very interesting, but you need to be interested in civil society in particular. Most students in the course are female, and most have worked in civil society organizations.
the course is good for people writing their first seminar paper because instructors are really helpful with the process
This course really examines and questions "Civil Society" and the literature on this topic, helps students understand the theories, and critically examines different authors and case studies.
An important and thoughtful exercise in exploring cross-cultural manifestations of civil society-- helpful for studies interested in challenging their own assumptions about what civil society is and what it looks like.
Don't be discouraged by "strange" terminology in the first few sessions, it will become clear over time. Expect lots of conceptual analysis.
Prof. Pharr's considerate and intelligible explanation will help your  understanding of civil society very much!
An effective survey of civil society literature in different geographical contexts. As survey, little depth on individual contexts, but it's a comparative seminar.
You should take this class if you ARE interested in civil society. You should not take it if you are just interested in the culture of Asia or Eastern Europe. This class is not about society or culture it is about a very specific field in political science.
