It is really fascinating to see how Russia operates. I came into the class with a minor interest in Russian politics and was surprised at how much I really enjoyed taking this class.
Great introductory course on Russian politics and no background is necessary. Course incorporates current events and provides a lot of information on a topic that has come to be very important for world affairs in recent years.
Great class, you get a very comprehensive picture of Russia. Russian not necessarily required
WOW! If you didn't know much about Russian politics before, Prof Colton is a walking encyclopedia of Russian history and current events. The course jumps right into the history and takes an objective look at the positives and negatives of the Russian Federation. A must take course if you are interested in international politics or Russia in general.
As a whole this course is very interesting.  You learn a ton about Russia and will feel extremely well-versed in regards to its history and present day affairs.  Professor Colton is so nice, especially for someone as esteemed as he is.  You cover a variety of topics and the readings are not at all overwhelming.  Having a final paper and exam was a bit tough, but the exam is more than fair, and it is clear they want what is best for students!
Sometimes lectures lag, but Prof Colton is so humble about his incredible achievements/connections that you can't help but like him. Take this class if you want to be an expert on Russia - especially in recent years! it was sooo cool to take this while ukraine/syria/turkey things have been playing out! We focused on a Putin a TON - so you'll become an expert on him, as well. For whatever reason, i feel like a main takeaway is that russian politics today = putin.
Great class! Lecture and section notes are useful for exams. Make sure to start working on the final paper early on.
of course
Great class. Colton may be a bit dry at times, and the readings can be up to 243 pages per week and a half, the class is worth the effort, and certainly is one of those classes where you get back what you put in. Colton is really dedicated to the subject, and is one of the foremost Russian political scholars today. Be ready to put in a good amount of work if you take the class, but by all means, do, if you feel as though you'll get a lot out of it.
This course has really interesting material and not the best execution. I hope they restructure the course as a seminar and with different assignments that don't put so much weight on writing in the last weeks of the course. Other than that, it's a great class with a professor who is at the forefront of the subject matter.
The subject matter is really interesting, and Prof. Colton has a lot of cool stories to share. He's seen/met a lot of the things/people discussed in the class. The readings are manageable (never exceeded ~100 pp a week), and are well selected. Lectures can sort of drag on, but it's worth it.
If you are even slightly interested in Russia take this course. If you are even slightly interested in government take this course. If you are even remotely curious about geopolitics today take this course. I have thoroughly enjoyed my experience in this course, and am walking away with a completely new understanding of the modern Russian Federation and its politics.
A must if you're interested in global affairs and/or Russia. Colton is great.
Speaking Russian helps, but not mandatory
This course is suitable for beginners and people already familiar with Russia alike. People of all experience levels are likely to get something positive out of the course.
This is a great course if you are interested in Russia. You are given a lot of information in lecture and readings and it is very enjoyable if you want to learn about the various aspects of Russian politics and society!
When i managed to do all the readings for the week, the classes for that week become more fun and you can relate more to what Prof. Colton was talking about. So do the readings! or try to do them!
If you are interested in learning more about Russian politics, this would be a very rewarding course. If you do have a fairly extensive background, you might consider taking a more specialized course, perhaps, a seminar, instead of a lecture-based class (I believe prof. Colton will be offering one in the future).
I really liked this class - it'll be difficult if you don't have much government background, but you can clearly see that both the professor and TF are passionate about the subject and dedicated to teaching their students.
If you want to learn Russian politics, this is the course for you.
If you are interested in Russia, its recent history or politics, this is a tremendous class. Definitely do the reading - it's not only useful and important but incredibly informative, so if you're interested int the subject matter thank Professor Colton for putting it together.
Don't take this class unless you are truly interested in the material. If you are, though, it will be fantastic. Yes, the organization is not spectacular and there isn't a huge amount of guidance with regards to assignments, but the reading list and chance to listen to/talk with Colton is more than worth it.
This class was an excellent overview of the intricacies of Russian politics, historical legacies that contribute to modern tendencies, and political theory. Be prepared for a substantial amount of reading.
Necessary foundation if pursuing work in Russian or Eurasian studies.
Keep up with the readings and participate in section. It is a great class if you are interested in Russia and want to get a lot out of the materials and Professor Colton (who is a great scholar)'s teaching. I recommend it to anyone who is interested in comparative politics or Russia.
so interesting; Professor Colton is so great - an amazing, engaging lecturer without even trying too hard (not an over-the-top display, but is genuinely so interested in the material that it is contagious); Nadiya is also wonderful - so helpful and her section is a great complement to the class
Gov 1243 is a great gov class that focuses on a single case study. It offers a view into contemporary Russian politics which is subject that is usually overshadowed by Soviet history.
I felt the lectures for this class were very good and memorable. A lot of preparation obviously went into them. The sections were rather unfocused but we also had some good discussions. The readings were also helpful to understanding the topic.
Read the readings! They are the core of the class. Sections build on them and lectures inform them. It is a great class to take if you have an interest in Russia or want to learn about principles political science applied under a competitive autocracy.
I would recommend this course highly to anyone interested in Russian politics, but probably not to anyone without this interest. Also, I would mention the poor organization of lectures in any recommendation I give.
Generally a good introduction to Russian politics. Readings are manageable. Try to read the Yeltsin book on time. It'll be difficult to catch it up later. Be prepared to study a lot of details, and fewer over-branching concepts. Professor Colton does tend to fall behind the lecture schedule, so expect to schedule a few additional classes to catch up.
I would highly recommend this class for students with some interest in post-Soviet politics. The class gives a great overview of Russia's troubles in the 1990's and its current status.
Best to take it as a grad student so you chan meet with Professor Colton during weekly section.
Fun, easy, small.
It's a good review of late Soviet and post Soviet political history, but it doesn't deal in much depth with contemporary political issues.
Nothing. Take this course.
This is a good introduction to Russian politics, although be warned that you really have to be interested in the topic or else it can get a bit dry at times. Prof. Colton's lectures are peppered with personal accounts of his meetings with Putin or Yeltsin (very entertaining) and are good overall, although we were always behind schedule, so if you are excited about topics at the end of the semester, plan to go through them quickly or not at all. The course gets better as the semester goes on, mainly because you come to know what is important to glean from lectures and readings as you become more acquainted with the subject.
I would only recommend this course if it was amended to include more information on the Gorbachev period and less information about Yeltsin.
I thought that class got better as the semester went on.  Professor Colton is very sweet, the readings are interesting, and the material gets better as the class goes on.
If this is your interest, you learn quite a bit and can have an enjoyable experience doing so. Try not to bring your computer to class; the teaching style is somewhat dry and dense, so it's easy to get distracted if you allow yourself. But all in all, a good class as long as you're already interested.
A great foundational course for Russian politics.
It's a rare opportunity to take a class on Russian politics with a brilliant professor who has dedicated decades of his life studying the topic, is so enthusiastic about the subject matter, and who really cares about his students.
you should be very enthusiastic about the subject already - the class is small so if you're not into it the course material may seem forced
This was one the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Colton is extremely knowledgable and gives very interesting and engaging lectures. There is a lot of reading but it really helps to elaborate on general ideas discussed in the class. I definitely recommend this one!
An excellent overview of Russian politics for those with little or no background on the subject or people who simply want to fill in the gaps in their knowledge.
The instructor did not organize a class discussion very well. The instructor just kept reading his memos during the lecture. The instructor did not show willingness to help students answer questions that he was not so familiar with.
Not necessarily for everyone.  Recommend to people with strong interest in government, politics, or Russia in particular.
