it's a good class for those interested in the gov concentration.
Not the best way to introduce students to government, but don't let it determine your choice of concentration.
It's required for Gov concentrators?
it's boring, but you have to do it...brace yourself
The small classes and the diversity of lectures gives a different side compared to most tutorials.
This is one of the courses I have enjoyed the least at Harvard. I would warn students that this class is in no way indicative of the other government department course offerings and would encourage them to continue with government despite how unsatisfactory I found this class to be.
This course is very interesting.
Stay on top of reading, Go to lecture very helpful
The Gov department is restructuring its sophomore tutorial every other year. No year is a good year to take a sophomore tutorial in any concentration, but this year's format was particularly terrible.
Take advantage of section time, don't coast. It won't work.
You have to take this class anyway
it may seem daunting at first, and it may seem unnecessarily intense, but since hindsight is always 20/20 i would recommend this course b/c it's very enjoyable and fascinating to get a chronological look at democracy and how it's evolved from the days of Athens to contemporary interpretations of the role of democratic countries in wartime, welfare state, inclusion/exclusion etc - you will like being able to discuss the concepts along the lines of the questions of the week within your small section
It is mandatory.
be prepared for lots of reading; also who you get as your section leader matters a lot for how the course is taught
unhelpful readings, boring professors, did not get anything intellectually out of this course, they should take gov 20 any day over the tutorial
its mandatory for gov concentrators
Be ready to read a lot, try to get a fair TF.
This is a great course that you can get a lot out of so I recommend taking it seriously and taking advantage. Do the readings and you'll be a section star and learn a lot of things that you can take on to your later gov classes, grad school, and life.
let this inspire you to take more gov seminars.
Disappointing
Do your readings because only lecture notes in this class will not help you
This class takes a familiar concept, and turns it on its head for you. It teaches you to look at the usual through unusual perspectives. It covers many different topics and areas and there is something for everybody here!
There is a lot of reading for this course and some of the topics are too theoretical and therefore boring, but the class will challenge you, make you a better writer and thinker, and it has great professors and lecturers. It will continue to improve year to year.
It's very good.
appeal to the staff to change the topic
It's a good way for concentrators to introduce themselves to the world of government, and with the terminology that they will need to familiarize themselves with.
Overall it was very enjoyable. Make sure you attend the course-wide lectures, which really give you a feel for what you may want to explore more in the future.
The only advantage of this course is it will introduce you to how boring and inconsequential political science is, and will teach you that if you stay in Government you will spend your undergraduate years not actually "doing political science", you'll just be commenting on other people's work.  This class made me reconsider doing Government as a concentration, and ultimately pushed me to switch to History.
A lot of reading!!
Although the class is mandatory, the lectures could be more applicable.
The course is a mess. The readings are repetitive (how many weeks did we talk about representation??) and the guest lectures are usually ineffective and often dull. Honestly, it seems like they're not even teaching a class, they're just experimenting with some sort of professorial rotation.
The focus on democracy did not translate well into a good introduction to comparative government or IR theory. The focus was mostly general gov theory and American government - though it wasn't a great introduction to that either. The themes each week often had no logical progression. Some of the lectures were extremely dry. The section readings often had nothing to do with the lectures. The paper assignments were not compelling at all because they were worded in such a way that implied a specific answer/thesis was expected of us.
One of my friends switched concentrations to avoid this class.
heads up, lots of reading
You're taking it because you have to.
there was a lot of reading and was fairly difficult to do well.
great class because it introduces interesting and relevant information to today's society.
You learn a great deal of information and the multiple topics are great.
It should be fine, as long as they keep tweeking the structure to make the course better.
You have to do it. It's not that bad though.
Be prepared to read and write a rather mind-numbing amount.
Definitely not for people with a casual interest in government.
Don't concentrate in government. Do social studies. I would definitely be switching if I could and still go abroad.
Try to get into it, and maybe you'll be rewarded. You have to be interested in government to some degree, or you wouldn't be in the department (hey maybe I'm wrong). So do the reading and don't be afraid to say you know the answer.
Its pretty good for a required tutorial
This class was too disorganized and not very interesting.  The readings were unreasonably long and were usually not very engaging.
I'm sorry this is a requirement.
It is mandatory so this question is irrelevant but I believe the class should be restructured again at least with further development to the connection between the lecture and section, and the readings and section.
Don't bother with all the readings. Or at least split it up with section mates.
For gov majors, obviously it's required, but it would be a really good survey-type course for someone with a side interest in government.
Only take it if you are a government concentrator. There is no other reason.
That there is a lot of reading.
I would tell students that the course itself is phenomenal but beware of the grading scheme.
It involves a LOT of reading.
it's not a very good introduction to the field, take the individual intro classes if you want a solid foundation.
Not nearly as bad as advertised. Not easy but manageable
As it stands now I did not think this was a good course. To be honest, it was the only course in my entire Harvard career which I was truly disappointed about.
Not very well structured and it's hard to say what you came away from the class with in terms of learning about democracy. There are general concepts I could tell you but overall, not what I expected.
Lectures are not as strong as the readings and section.
Don't be afraid to question.
not too bad, the sections were really long, 2 hours, a lot of reading if you don't have a study group, paper grades are curved so tough to get a good grade
Taking this course is an in-depth introduction to a central theme. Take it if you're serious about Gov.
Be prepared for hell.
There is an extremely large amount of reading.  Be prepared!
Be ready to work hard.
Some days are very interesting but other days can be boring.
Pay attention to which topics you found the most interesting so that you can get a feel for what types of other Government classes you would like to take. You can also choose Professors that you like based on the lecturers in class.
It is fascinating, a lot of fun, and a great way to explore the government department.
Unfortunately, you have to take the Gov sophomore tutorial; if it wasn't a requirement, I wouldn't recommend it.  The tedium of the class made me dislike democracy greatly (I'm being sarcastic of course), but the course was still an intellectual snooze fest.  Yes, they brought gov heavyweights to teach the class, but what good is having the leader in a field, if he/she can't teach worth a spit.  All in all, I say that I would have had a better time taking a community college class.
This class will give you a good survey of democracy studies though how much you enjoy it will largely depend on your TF and the people in your section.
Great introduction to the government concentration.
the lectures do not really correspond to the papers, but reading is very helpful
I expected the worst, given the past scores.  I couldn't have been more pleasantly surprised.  The lectures were a bit dry some weeks, but on the whole Gov 97 was a strong affirmation of my concentration decision.  I had a fantastic TF (Yascha), so the two-hour sections were informative and really interesting.  If you do the readings reasonably well and spend some time on the papers, this can be at the very least a painless requirement and possibly one of the better courses you take.
Go to lectures. They do not affect your grade in any way, but if you are genuinely interested in Gov, like listening to eloquent speakers, and checking out the diversity of lecture styles among Gov professors, it's really worthwhile. It's a lot of reading, but the sections discussions help you focus on which readings are important. The fact that sections are held on a house-basis helps foster a small community of Gov concentrators in your house that you know very well.
Despite claims otherwise, the lectures are actually really good and worth going to. They don't really help with papers or anything, but the insight offered was always pretty cool.
The class teaches on an extensive array of topics giving students an educated understanding on the various aspects of political science both on techniques and areas of study.
All other gov courses I've taken are good. It's a necessary sacrifice.
The Government Department has taken great strides to improve the tutorial from previous years. If you are at all interested in political theory and the development of democracy, I would definitely recommend taking this course.
Read the instructions carefully for the assignments.  Be ready for section.  Summarize readings as you go through each week (even if you skim them...this will save you a ton of time on the essays and will help you tremendously in section).
This class is definitely a survey course - each lecture is very separate from the one before and after it, so you will not walk away from this class with the satisfaction of having answered a single question. That being said, there is a lot of value to exposed to most of the major Gov sub-fields, and each lecturer who came to talk to us was a veritable expert in his/her field. Lecture really is a side-show, since most of your grade is dependent upon section performance and attendance. That means that who you get as your TF and the quality of peers will fundamentally determine how you view this class to a far greater extent than any class I have previously taken. If on the first day of section you get a bad vibe, definitely change ASAP.
its a great experience to work in small sections
Readings are lengthy and dense. Sections are good. Lectures are interesting but not clearly related to any work you have to do during the class.
Great chance to learn in a discussion based setting about democracy. The lectures were very dry and also did not relate to the core of the class.
This class totally depends on the TF that you get (it's extremely decentralized and although lecture is better for "background information," the course is done practically totally in section). I was very lucky to have had a good TF and thus had an amazing experience; but if you get a bad TF you would not have such a good experience. The readings are pretty good and the lectures are interesting.
Freshman who are thinking of taking this course- wait. Especially if you are debating Social Studies vs. Gov, the departments allow you to take SS 10 in place of Gov 97- something I wish I had known earlier.Except for the few frantic weeks before papers are due, the course requires very little work. The readings are almost impossible to stay on top of, but if you don't try, you'll be completely screwed come paper time. In the end, you don't have much of a choice on whether or not to take it. Enjoy the guest lecturers, some of them are really good.
Sorry that this is required.  Unfortunately, you have to bite the bullet.
The amount of reading may seem daunting, but all you really need to do is pay attention in lecture and make sure you get each author's thesis and their main points. Don't even try to read every page.
Do not take this class unless you're a gov concentrator. Don't go to lectures, and your experience will be highly dependent on your TF. The grading and papers are also not that well structured.
This class is not superlative in any regard - best or worst, hard or easy, interesting or boring. It is very average.
Definitely use the section leaders for any questions you have because they are very helpful and willing to assist.
A lot of readings, this sucks, but the lectures make it an amazing class.
Do your best and ask for help if you hit any problems!
This class is challenging, heavy reading load and papers that take some time, but you learn a lot and the tfs are great.
Keep up with the readings and be prepared to read the material multiple times for the papers.
I had heard that your TF makes or breaks this course - it is SO true. Get to know them well, participate in section, let them know if you need help with your papers, etc.
This course offers a unique opportunity to engage with all of the sub-fields in the government department that allows you to get a better sense of what you may want to pursue further in particular.
Gov 97 is a pretty good tutorial. You learn a lot by doing the readings and develop a good grasp on what the government department requires of you in terms of analysis and writing.
This class has a demanding, sometimes repetitive, reading schedule. Try to form a study group. Meet with your TFs frequently as resources. Go to Masha if you can to conceptualize and structure your papers.
do the majority of the readings and you will be fine
A great study of democracy and why we consider it to be the world's sole form of legitimate government.  I enjoyed the study of democratization and political economy, it was definitely a great bonding experience for new Gov concentrators.
good luck
The readings are interesting, but the lectures are irrelevant. You will get the most out of doing all of the readings and attending section.
This gives you a good understanding of what gov classes will be like.
You have to take this class anyways. :/
Be prepared to read a lot if you want a high grade. Not much work to get an acceptable grade. Make sure to get on your TFs good side because in the end they are the ones that can give you a better grade.
The section component is awesome. The readings are engaging and the discussions stimulating!
You have to take it, so it's not really much of an option. But as far as tutorials go, it doesn't have the ridiculous workload of social studies and the material is quite interesting.
The readings are oftentimes difficult, but you get better at doing them as the year goes along.  The more you're able to get out of the readings, the more you'll be able to get out of section and the course in general.  Learn to speed-read and you'll be set, happy, and having fun!
This is a really great class, you will learn a lot from guest lectures and both professors.
The assignments are awful, very unclear and require a great deal of work with the TF to do well. Other than that its pretty interesting, the readings are decent (broad spectrum), lectures aren't worth going to.
Worst class you have to take in the government department.
The section component of the tutorial is the best part. I had a wonderful TF, and I think that the other TFs are quite good as well. Do the readings fairly thoroughly so as to get the most out of section. The lectures are worth going to so you can hear from a lot of the profs in the department, but they are not really necessary for the course. I learned a lot, and my ability to read gov articles and write gov papers has improved. I didn't have high hopes, because the course was required, but it turned out to be my favorite course this semester.
It's not too bad for a required tutorial. Just be ready to read, a lot.
it's a required course, but is not as painful as some may make it out to be. essay prompts can be a bit vague, but the subject is quite interesting (and not just a question of how many different ways can you say democracy). do the readings, because section will be awkward if you don't.
You have to take this course if you want to concentrate in government, so there is not much you can do about it. If you get a good TF, section can save the course; if not, you may have to work on your own to really engage and argue with the texts because the class itself won't encourage it. If you go into it with the attitude of someone who wants to learn and formulate arguments then it won't be as painful as most concentration-required classes can be.
Try to do the reading, they don't pick it out to bore you.
This class has been revamped to respond to the needs of Gov concentrators. The class is highly thorough. I do suspect, however that the quality of your experience largely depends on your section leader.
This class deals with very thought-provoking questions. The lectures are interesting but not necessary for understanding the readings or writing the papers. Attendance is technically mandatory though so go and soak up some knowledge.
It is helpful to create a study group as the readings are very dense and difficult to get through by oneself. I wouldn't have survived without one.
Do all of the readings, and meet with your TF to discuss your paper. Course is painless, just requires a bit of time.
This class confirmed for me that I want to be a gov concentrator! It is a buffet of harvard's government department.
Although the readings are extensive, the knowledge gained justified the time commitment.
This class is terrible unless you have a great TF.
even though it is a required course for government concentrators you should not approach it as a burden or chore, rather try and make the best out of it - your grade will be fine at the end of the day and the class puts you in contact with such talented political scientists and introduces you to material that will serve as strong foundations for your future studies. Take full advantage of this exceptionally well organized and well taught class. p.s. you dont have to go to lecture (it can only help you, while not attending will not hurt you in any way) which is always a plus
This course will make you reconsider your concentration.
Your section and section leader will make or break this experience.
As soon as you get the essay assignment, start working. Read relevant readings, take notes, sleep on it, and then crank out something good. Everyone else will be writing sleep-deprivation-induced rantings because they thought two days prior would be sufficient (my mistake as well).
A marginally useful, frequently unpleasant concentration requirement. Do the readings. If you have done any writing for any higher-level gov class, it is very unlikely that you will gain anything from writing the papers in Gov 97, other than frustration.
The readings and lectures are completely unrelated.  Depending on who your TF is section could be anywhere from tolerable to a complete nightmare. Also paper grading is not consistent across TF's so if you get a tough one you are simply screwed (Sorry you get a B- while your classmates get B+'s with the same quality of work)
There's a lot of reading, but they're for the most part worthwhile and the discussion is good and engaging.  Lectures are for the most part pretty unnecessary.  Definitely go to section though.
WAY too much reading--the subject matter of each often overlapped and got really repetitive; the excerpts should be shortened to cover only the relevant material. Many lectures were not enriching to the material we were studying. There was so much comparative politics and not enough balance--I'm planning on writing a thesis, but within the political theory branch; therefore, 10 weeks of statistical analysis didn't help me very much at all. The TF makes or breaks the course, so hope you get Yascha or someone else as good.
This is was a very enjoyable course. The material is interesting, albeit a little too broad, and the discussion component really enhances your understanding of the material. I enjoyed reading a diverse group of authors.
the small sections provide an ideal learning environment
This course is very comprehensive under Professor Nelson and Professor Singh. It's very exciting to see so many professors who are in the top of their fields come in to talk to us. Also, the course readings are great and very enlightening.
That you should be prepared to make this class one of your top class-priorities because to get the most out of it, you really have to put a lot into it.
You really have no choice in taking this course, so focus on all that you will learn in just a semester. Pretend that you're going on a historical tour, getting a chance to see how the system of government in place today was formed, and what difficulties were faced along the way.
Do the readings.  The lectures are sometimes interesting but you won't really use them for anything and they are sometimes totally irrelevant.
You get out what you put into it
This course is structured around an incredibly broad question: "What is democracy?"  Such a broad basis for the class yields a syllabus that often feels like a grab bag of theory and political science, quantitative and qualitative analysis, and theories of several Harvard gov professors.  However, with a good TF, the section discussions will help you to answer which focus of government you enjoy most and want to pursue, although it will not help you to answer "What is democracy?"
The essay prompts seemed as though they were created minutes before they were posted, with terribly confusing wording and no real direction. The lectures were abysmal. Section was great. The readings definitely give you a better superficial knowledge of the government subfields. The essays were painful though. Take it because you have to. It isn't very difficult either.
Some people hate this course and complain about the reading but a true gov. concentrator would enjoy this course and the discussions in section!
This class is a requirement so you need to take it if you are planning on majoring in gov. but if you are unsure it will steer you in the opposite direction.
I would only recommend this class if it moved away from 3 motivation-limiting papers and onto a system of learning that channels the importance of participation.
The Government 97 Tutorial provides a broad overview of the study of government through an examination of democracy. It asks a lot of important and interesting questions, you hear from diverse and worthwhile guest lecturers, and (depending on your TF) you get to have an in depth and potentially fun discussion about the nature of democracy once a week. If this class was not required, I might choose to take it anyway. Government is a very broad field of study, but this class touches on an array of relevant ideas, and I'm definitely walking out with a deeper appreciation for the questions that surround democracy.
take time on the papers and participate in section
It's very difficult to get a good grade, but you learn a lot! Participation is keyyyyyy
Every Gov concentrator has to take this class, so it is best to approach the readings and lectures with interest. Not all the topics are incredibly exciting, but it is a good overview of Democracy in general.
i wouldnt recommend, but who cares, I'm just a student, and its a required course.
This is an AWESOME gov. class. I was very scared to take it but feel like such a legitimate gov concentrator now.  It really causes you to question what you believe about rights, democracy and the role of a government.  The section component allows for great discussion.  There is a decent amount of reading.  Definitely doable, but be ready to work for it.  The more you read, the more you get out of the class.
Section and interaction with your TF is the most useful part of the course.
you can get a lot out of the class, but the readings are dense, and as a result its frustrating when people come to section unprepared.
If your smart, you can get by skimming readings that are boring, reading interesting ones and having interesting sections and the essays are interesting. you have to take the course, might as well be efficient about it and you can enjoy it. I liked it and the q scores I read had comments like, "This is hell." Not the case at all.
This is a really wonderful class despite being required, and it was actually my favorite course of the semester (among other good classes)! A lot depends on your section, but I have the impression that the course tends to have very strong TFs. The readings are very interesting, and the lectures allow you to meet a lot of different faculty. The grade for the course is entirely based on three papers and participation, which is nice. Awesome class.
Your experience with this class depends ENTIRELY on your TF. ENTIRELY.
This is a solid course, though the readings are long and difficult. It's fairly representative of the Government department.
The essay questions are not well written and are extremely difficult to answer not because they are particularly thoughtful or difficult but because they are simply bad questions.
engage with the readings and participate confidently in section to maximize the enjoyment of the course
The readings are though-provoking but wholly not necessary until the papers are due. Find a study group with which to do them!
This class is mandatory so Government concentrators have no other option but to take it. If it wasn't mandatory I would be likely to recommend it only because it is a lot of reading for an elective.
I would tell future students that this provides a pretty good introduction to the government faculty and that tutorials often promote really engaging and interesting discussions.  The readings are also exceptional and highly-recommended.  Although the paper topics don't do a great job of providing students with practice writing the types of papers they will write in the political science department (they're a bit too broad), they still enable students to think about some interesting topics in depth and engage with them critically.  In addition, although it might be hard to emerge from the course with any overarching take-away points due to the variety of lecturers, these lecturers also provide a number of different perspectives that will inform my class choices and specific interest in political science in the future.
Lecture is barely relevant to the course, but the readings and section are fantastic.
I was lucky to have an amazing tf. This class will be painful if you have a bad tf. Make sure you go to every lecture. Lectures were a hit or miss at times, but the ones that were a hit were great to attend.
It pays off to conscientiously do the readings- you will develop an understanding of key concepts and be in a good position for the essays.
You should absolutely not take this class unless required to do so.
Lecture boring, section has the potential to be good, course material tends to be a retread of other gov classes, stupid second paper topic, but it's required, so what are you going to do.
The format of this course (3 papers) was very good, and overall it was not too difficult. However, dont expect to be wowed by the class or to even learn very much. The subject matter is a scattered collection of articles loosely collected on the principle of "democracy"
have to take it but good class
Great class if you get a good section leader (which I luckily did); be prepared to "learn how to write a gov paper" fast because there is not a lot of time to adjust and learn
Well you have to take it anyway, so for a requirement it isn't that painful.  The papers aren't bad (3 papers), but the sections are intense and the reading is mountainous.
You live or die by the TF you have for this course.  Without Oliver this course would have been intolerable.
a lot of reading, but very interesting and worth it!
Waste of time going to lectures. Just skim through readings.
Approach the course with an open mind and always challenge the material. Your enjoyment of section will depend largely on your TF and how they guide the discussion. The more open, the better.
It's a waste of time, and this certainly should not be considered representative of the government department.
This class is terrible. My section leader was great, which is the only reason why I am not giving it terrible marks across the board. The papers are not fun, the class leaders take themselves way too seriously, the guest lecturers are alright (some of them). It is stereotypical Gov-boring. A black hole of intellectual stimulation.
It's a work in progress, definitely, but you learn a lot of interesting things.
It's a shame that this is a required class for all gov concentrators. Do your best to get through the dense material and painful 2hr long 6-person sections. There are a lot of better gov courses out there afterwards.
do the readings and go to lecture, but just listen.  knowing the readings will help you once you get to writing your papers.
Only take it if you have to because you're a concentrator. Otherwise, don't go through it.
Provides basic understanding for political theory.
It's not too bad, considering you HAVE to take it.
As long as you are willing to do the readings, the class is very rewarding
Some readings are great, some are really not. Be prepared to be bored at times.
Although it is a required class if you're a Gov concentrator, don't fret, it's actually a good course. There are some dull lectures, but for the most part, a majority of the guests are fascinating. Section is great if you're in a small one. One warning -- there is a fair amount of reading throughout the semester.
Doesn't matter what the q score is because you have to take it if you want to concentrate in government.
Good material.  Your TF will make or break your experience.
It's not the most engaging course, but you leave with a relatively thorough understanding of the components of democracy.
A lot of it depends on your section leader...you don't really have to do all the reading or attend all of the lectures.
I would encourage the section but discourage the lectures.
Take advantage of the resources available to you like the gov writing tutor and tf office hours to help you with the papers.
It's a lot of reading, but with the right section the class can be pretty fun.
Not so bad as people tell you it is. It can actually be exciting as long as you have the right attitude.
Go to lecture! There are fascinating professionals who have very unique experiences that aren't shared with many people.
This course provides a solid foundation and overview for a government concentrator.
This is a mandatory course for Government concentrators, so I don't see much point in dissuading you from taking this course. However, I will warn you that the sheer amount of readings in this course were RIDICULOUS - it's actually impossible to believe that a student with a full courseload will be able to give each reading a fair read in those massive coursepacks.
It is interesting because you will be exposed to a sampling of ideas across the discipline of political science.
There is a lot of reading for this course and the lectures can be tedious at times. However, section discussion has the potential to be interesting. The course offers a decent overview of democracy.
Do the readings, they are actually good.
great "building blocks" course for any government concentrator.
You will probably find the readings very informative.
Although it's required for a government concentrator, Gov 97 also happens to be a great class!
its dry and unorganized and may make you seriously consider why you didn't major in social studies instead but the staff is nice and some topics are interesting
It is a class you need to take, enjoy it. Don't be too worried about taking notes in class, sit and listen carefully. You'll learn more! Also, do the readings to be prepared for section.
Non-concentrators need not apply
The course is what you make of it; if you engage yourself in the readings and take part in section discussion, the class can be incredibly rewarding. The exposure to so many different professors is an excellent introduction to the department, and you will truly walk away with a renewed understanding of democracy.
Its great if you like the topic. It is very difficult if you do not.
This is a mandatory course, but I feel that it can be greatly improved. From what I gather, this course has undergone extensive renovations in its short lifespan, and it seems that the professors and teaching fellows have tried very hard to make this a good class. Unfortunately, this course is not quite there yet.
You have to take it, so enjoy!  Ha.  Better you than me.  Honestly, I'd rather punch myself in a sensitive area than take this course again.
Lots of reading, not much work
Really try to do the reading because this will allow you to get so much more out of the course.
Do as much reading as possible and be sure to participate actively. The better you prepare, the more you will get out of class.
This class may seem like a pain during the semester because of the ridiculous amount of reading, but you learn a lot and will end up with a solid foundation in government. Also, there isn't much reason to go to lecture, unless your TF pays attention to whether you're there.
it's pretty good, but more importantly you have no choice.
This class will give you an in depth look into democracy as well as provide you with a foundation of knowledge of multiple areas of study.
It's a good class that is fair. Not the worst a required tutorial could be.
In order to take in all the information this course offers, you must make time to do all the reading.
Some weeks are awesome. Other weeks are boring as hell...
I wish I could say "ABSOLUTELY DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS!" but unfortunately it is required of Gov concentrators. It is a sad reflection on the department the extent to which this class is a waste of time.
Hope for a good TF! They will make or break this class for you.
Do all the readings.
A good section leader makes a big difference. Lectures are really supplementary
Expect a lot of reading. Listen to your section leader when it comes to everything and try to be friends with him/her.
this class was horrible. you should take Social Studies instead. do not do the Government department. this tutorial was useless and a waste of time.
It's a great class with a lot to offer.
Reading is intense, but helpful for writing papers.
If you're in the political theory track, be warned, it is a heavily comparative and international relations class: especially the readings.
Section makes or breaks this course. If you have a good TF and a good section, you will have an enjoyable experience.
Take it.
Typical concentration requirement, you have to get through it. Can be painful at times, easy at others. Workload isn't too bad. Material is quite interesting during some weeks. Guest lectures are a strength.
A lot of reading, try to do it, it makes the section very, very interesting
This is a very valuable course, great faculty, great discussion. Do as much of the reading as you can because it's actually very good!
The material is relatively interesting but conveyed in a way in lectures that are often superfluous or not engaging. The sections, despite the length, can be the highlight of the course if you have engaged and willing students.
The lectures aren't very useful but take time to do the readings. Not all of them are really necessary though for section; the important ones, however, are quickly apparent.
a class in which you ask questions and receive different answers none of which are right and you have two weeks to write essays or critiques about issues about which these authors have thought of for decades.
It is completely unnecessary to attend any lecture, but always do the readings.
This is a much improved tutorial from what I have heard from years past. I found myself enjoying the topics and the readings. There is a lot you can take away from this course. There will be parts you like and others you don't, but overall it is a solid course.
To get the most out of this class you have to devote serious time to the readings and I would recommend taking this course when other courses are lighter on readings.
This is a good introduction to the government discipline and a course that enables you to learn quite a lot!
This course is interesting but there is a lot of required reading. Due to the small 2-hour sections, you have to have a solid understanding of what readings are about.
This class may be a bit disjointed at times due to the amount of material that is covered, but make sure to read all the readings every week!! This is crucial to the two hour discussion sections and you will get so much more out of the class and be able to contribute more insightful comments and papers.
Interesting discussion, a lot of reading but you don't need to do 2/3rds of it to do well in the class
Your experience in this class largely depends on your tutor. The lectures were hit or miss, but the assignments were fair and not overwhelming.
Don't expect to get a great overview of the field of government in general.  It is more just focused around democracy and what exactly democracy means today.
The lectures are usually pretty dry and boring but section (at least the one I was in) is excellent. All in all, it wasn't a terrible experience. However, most of the readings were quite boring and required a deep enthusiasm for political science to remain engaged. Fortunately, there were few written assignments other than the readings.
It's a mandatory class so make the best of it.
Gov 97 is alright but hardly the highlight of this concentration.
hope you get a good TF
You gotta take it.
The course is not easy, requiring a good amount of reading each week and three papers, but if you like gov't this can be fun and interesting.
This course is a lot of work but if you put in the work you will learn a lot and gain valuable knowledge for future classes.
The lectures have nothing to do with the assignments, and the course has no real direction or goal.
I realize that people do not generally get excited about tutorial courses. However, as a concentrator who had to take Gov97 as a junior, I wish I could have taken it as a sophomore. The course covers a wide breadth and introduces students to a variety of topics and a number of Gov faculty. The course is especially beneficial to students who would like to concentrate in government but are not sure what area to focus in. The TF makes a BIG difference in Gov97 -- and my TF Oliver Bevan (who, unfortunately, is leaving this year) was really excellent!
This class something of a mess. The sense that I got was that neither the professors, TFs, nor students are particularly interested in this class. No one has really stepped up with a vision for what this class should be and how to sculpt a meaningful, useful course from all the government department has to offer. As a result, the course is muddled. I hesitate to say it is bad, which sounds like I am casting blame on someone for negligence. The course is this way because the government department is not a unitary actor with the goal of educating students but a collection of diverse, powerful actors who, though they all care about undergraduate education to some extent, have very different ideas about what that is.
Honestly this doesn't matter terribly much, as this is a required course, but for what it's worth I actually rather enjoyed it. Lectures weren't the most exciting things in the world. Sections are ultimately the main part of this course, and where you'll get the most out of it. Do the readings at least somewhat thoroughly, and you'll enjoy (and get a lot out of) section.
It's a great course. The sections are informative and the rotating lecturer format keeps students interested.
The readings are only necessary when you are citing sources for your essays...don't waste your time doing all of them.
The readings were enjoyable and part of the foundational literature of Government. The lectures weren't too bad, and the section was great! You will learn so much and become so much stronger as a writer in Government!!
Do the readings, go to lecture, and meet with your TF to talk about your paper before you start writing.
Gov 97 is a great introduction to the Government department. The lectures and readings each week expose you to a subset of the discipline, allowing you to explore many potential areas of interest. If you like variety, this is the course for you. My section leader was the best I've had at Harvard, and I always had great discussion with my classmates. No need to worry about this tutorial if you're planning on concentrating in Government.
It is a great course that teaches you a lot about the fundamentals of democracy.   Section was a great debate and open discussion where I really learned how to argue as a political scientist. Overall it was a really interesting and good course.  The readings may seem like a lot but they just need to be skimmed to get the main point.
You're most likely only taking this class if you have to. It's not as painful as a sophomore tutorial can be, but the papers don't really have too much to do with the readings. The class was really disorganized and scattered and focused a lot on theory and I wasn't sure if I got a coherent theme or message out of it.
You have to take it... but it's not the best class unless they improve it! There are much better Gov classes, so don't worry. This is not necessarily a reflection of the rest of the department.
It's not exciting but it is not a terrible class.
You're required to take the course, so try to make the best of it.  The course is kind of all over the place in terms of material and structure, and a lot of how enjoyable it is comes down to your TF.  Regardless, it is very important to meet with your TF and to be willing to ask for help.  There are a lot of resources available, and if you take advantage of them, the class isn't too bad.
This course has a great section component, but the lectures sometimes drag.
you have to suffer through it.... there was some interesting material/reading/topics/lectures, but generally pretty dry stuff.
Good class, the lectures are really what makes the course. Section is kind of boring but fine. The feedback you get on the your papers is very helpful
It is entirely dependent on you tutorial leader.
do the reading each week - sections are small and TFs can tell if you dont
This is the worst class I've ever taken. I learned nothing and sometimes I felt like the course wanted me to learn nothing. The class was simply promoting ideology and it didn't allow students to think or question in any constructive way. Two or three of the lectures were engaging.
Great course. You learn a lot about democracy, however, you don't learn a lot about other forms of government.
This class is terrible. I never write long Q reviews, but this class was so bad I had to. I've heard they spent a significant amount of time improving it, so I can't even imagine how bad the class used to be because its still fairly horrible. I love Gov and History classes and have taken a lot of government classes and yet I still found lecture to be excruciatingly boring. The class also lacked a real structure and overall message. The idea of brining in different lecturers from the government department to speak is a decent idea, but it was executed poorly. The lectures were boring, uninformative, and overall just pointless. Attendance is required, and my TF would check to see if we were there (I don't know if all TFs did this), so I went to almost every lecture and EVERY TIME felt like I had wasted 90 minutes of my life. Section was less horrible, but still not good. The requirements and grading across sections was not equal at all, and if you got a difficult TF you were screwed over. I have no problem with a difficult class, but when the expectations from section to section vary so wildly, its hard not to be bitter. The readings were also generally pretty uninteresting and difficult to get through, but you have to do them all because your section is tiny, 2 hours long, and the TF will cold call. Basically, you have to take this class if you are a Government concentrator, and I wouldn't let this class deter you from concentrating in Government. Gov is a great department, with brilliant professors and interesting classes- this class just happens to be completely horrible. I'm glad I'm done with it and I'm sorry you have to take this. Just power through and at the end of the semester you'll thank God its over.
Solid
Clearly, government concentrators have no choice about taking this class. However, if you go in with an expectation that it's going to be a stimulating experience where you get to interrogate interesting topics in a intimate and secure setting, it will be extremely enjoyable. It's not like other classes, which you walk away with a really clear body of knowledge and facts. Rather, it's a course that teaches you how to think and how to frame arguments in new ways. Yeah, the lectures seemed kind of disparate sometimes, but just take a chill pill, sit back, and listen. Professors often have pretty interesting things to say or are at least adorably entertaining.
Unfortunately, all Gov concentrators have to take it. It is awful. Probably the worst or second worse class I have taken. Lectures are boring and unnecessary to go to for section or assignments but some TFs take attendance. Everyone is on email or facebook except <10%. Section can be great or terrible. Depends on how much you are willing to contribute and your TF. While the department thinks they are doing you a favor introducing you to so many professors (which does have the benefit of allowing you to see potentail classes to take in the future or not to take if they are boring), the lectures are disconnected. The readings for the class are dull too. Skim them for section and talk a bit. Take copious section notes. And then write the papers. Don't sweat the class. It is not worth it.
you have no choice with this one
Everyone has to take this class, so use this as a chance to consolidate all that you've learned in gov. Plus, the TFs are great, so keep working on you gov writing skills. In terms of content knowledge, you likely aren't going to get much out of the class unless you want to focus on the topic (class of 2015 = democracy), but this is a good time to work on skills.
I would highly recommend this class.  The course material was very interesting, readings were usually good, and section discussions were very enjoyable.  The quality of the weekly guest lecturers varied quite a bit, but overall this class is well worth taking and is a great introduction to the government concentration.
I know it's fashionable to hate on the Gov Sophomore Tutorial for some reason, but I actually enjoyed it a lot! The topics are all thought-provoking and challenging and make you pause and really think. The writing component will teach you how to improve your writing of government papers, in particular and I did definitely see an improvement from my first paper to my final paper. Overall, amazing course that I enjoyed a lot! Granted, I had Evann as my TF and because sections are such a big component of GOV97, my bias might be showing (because Evann is the best TF I've ever had at Harvard or ever will have anywhere)
A good introduction to the Government Department - section discussions will be fantastic - but don't expect any one lecture to do a professor justice. These are very accomplished professors who sometimes feel that lecturing for this tutorial means that they need to cram all of their scholarship into a 1.5 hour overview presentation, so beware of this and know that just because you didn't like a professor's lecture in Gov 97 that doesn't mean that you should rule out taking their other courses - still shop them
I would say that it is a more interesting class than the topic suggests.  The section component is really a great opportunity to learn and discuss.
You have to take it to concentrate in Gov so it really doesn't matter that it isn't a good course.
Not the most exciting gov class. But its one you have to get through. You get a lot of section time and one-on-one time with a TF, and the diversity of lecturers is a big plus.
the readings are relatively long and the conversation in section depends on how engaged the rest of the students are, but overall it's a great intro to gov classes.
Honestly, I don't want to say too many bad things because I know you all have to take the course anyway.  Suffice it to say that you should be prepared to suffer through many ill-prepared guest lecturers, learn many things that are completely irrelevant to essay assignments, and write three essays with prompts that are maddeningly irrelevant, poorly worded, or simply frustrating.
I absolutely loved this tutorial. I came in expecting to dislike it, because of the things I had heard about it. But, the TF that lead my section, Evann, was actually the best. We had such a fun section where everyone contributed such interesting thoughts. We had an intellectual safe space where we could challenge each other to think critically about the readings. We could also throw out random musings or play devil's advocate without being worried about judgment or anything like that. (I honestly wasn't a huge fan of giant lectures with different lecturers every week)
Amazing course for those who have any interest in government and wish to learn about the intricacies of democracy.
Lectures are normally boring. If you get a bad TF too, you're screwed.
In seeing different professors lecture about different topics, you will likely find out which areas in Government interest you after taking Gov 97.
This course is completely dependent on your TF - Brett is the man
It's a tutorial; it's supposed to weed out the people who really don't want to do the concentration.. The reading is ridiculously long and difficult, the lectures are boring and uselessly long, and the only interesting part is section. Prepare to be annoyed.
Don't take it unless you have to - it's very broad and quite tedious. You're better off picking a subject that interests you and taking a class on that, or you'll spend three weeks defining democracy in this class. But, chances are, if you're looking at this, you probably have to take it anyway.
I am assuming that this is irrelevant seeing as most will take this course as a requirement. If not, there is absolutely no reason to take this course instead of a legitimate intro course (Gov 10, 20, etc.) or a specialized Gov course (everyone should take 1295 at some point).
Way better than expected. However, I attribute solely to having Kyle Jaros as our section leader. Lecture was pretty boring and unnecessary.
Gov concentrators have to take this class so there isn't much to deliberate here - it is not very cohesive and connected from week to week, but some weeks are good.
An absolutely terrible course that represents the worst of the government department.  Grin and bear it as the rest of the department is so much better but the multiple lectures with different professors lead to a mis managed theme and a wide variety of topics and readings that at times are difficult to connect.  The essays are fairly easy and the section component depending on your section leader and the people in the section can be enjoyable.  The department has so much more to offer - this is not the flagship class but rather the worst.
This course is very important to a gov concentrator.  It really helps you get a feel for how to read and spend a lot of work on the readings.
The class raises some very good questions. I have no doubt you will enjoy the experience; however, there are some that are never even seriously asked (i.e., alternatives to democracy).
Don't worry too much about all the reading. There can be a lot, but you don't actually have to do a lot of it. There are no exams, just papers.
This course is a requirement for the Government concentration. Compared to feedback from previous years, it seems that this class has been highly improved. It offers a good insight as to what the fields within the government concentration are. It also provides students a great opportunity to meet many of the professors within the Government department and solidify their interests.
This is a great survey course of all of the different parts of the government concentration. The lectures can get really dry, but section makes the course worth it.
I would not recommend this class as an elective, simply because other classes may go in depth into specific topics. I would however recommend it to those who must take it. It is in fact a well taught class. The class material is engaging, and the teaching staff dynamic and committed.
Lectures were tough to pay attention to. They weren't necessary to do well in the class though
For a class that's mandatory, it's not too bad. Lectures are pointless but section discussions are surprisingly interesting (I was nervous about the two hour block of time, but it doesn't drag on)
a good section makes the class
have to take it anyway if your a gov major
Don't take this if you aren't a government concentrator but if you are it's really a pretty decent course, especially if you have a good TF.  It's nice to get to know a few fellow students in the gov department well and to do some fairly interesting readings in a variety of areas.  Overall definitely something I looked forward to every week.
Gov 97 is a class in which you will get as much out as you put in. The lectures can be terrible, but the sections are great. Work hard on the papers, and try as much as you can to be friends with the people in your section so that conversation flows freely. You'll get much more out of it if you're all comfortable with one another.
You will have a lot of reading in this course, but the discussions are very productive and you learn a wide variety of topics.
you have to take it anyway, but it is a good course
This is a great way to see if government is really the right concentration for you.
Sections depend heavily on the TF you have and I was lucky enough to have a great TF. While the content of the course was solid, lectures vary from interesting to incredibly boring and uninformative.
If you are lucky to get a great TF, you will think this is a great class.
it's a generally easy introduction to different aspects of democracy. as long as you at least make an effort to do the readings, you'll enjoy the class!
Make the most of your section. Lecture is entertaining for the most part because you see many professors from the department. Pretty amazing/surreal if you ask me. The shit you read is from them!!! I am grading this course positively based on the experience I had with my section leader. Brad Hinshelwood FTW. He is funny, smarty, and da best.
It is a ton of reading.
This is a great class to get an overview of democratic thought in principle and in practice. The section element was strong and we had great discussions and facilitation, and lectures were usually very interesting with great guest professors and panels. That being said, the grading in this class is harsh and there was nothing more frustrating than learning that the grade distribution for the 3 essays you will write was so difficult - this class approaches essay writing as if you were writing a multiple-draft, month-long peer and instructor reviewed essay....but in the span of 2 weeks. When a humanities class becomes that strict, often the line between an A/A-/B+ becomes impossible for students to understand, as seen in the fact that the sample 'exemplary' papers posted did not seem that exemplary. The course does not communicate well / at all that they will hand out very few As, so unless that is changed you should enter this course knowing that.
I suppose, if you're at all considering this course, whether or not you take it is related to whether or not you plan to concentrate in Government. Given that if you so decide you'll be forced to take it regardless, I won't spend too much time trying to pander to your curiosities. Still, allow me to say that this course is not necessarily indicative of the rest of the Departmentit's not necessarily better or worse, just different. On the other hand, if you're not planning on a Government concentration, as was the case with me, I highly recommend you take it. It just may change your mind.
If you want this course to be insightful or somewhat interesting YOU HAVE TO PARTICIPATE IN SECTION. The only weeks I truly remember correspond with lively section debates or productive conversations.
This class is mandatory. You will fall asleep in most lectures and in the rest you will be experiencing the jaw-dropping debates between gov dept. profs that will end in someone being called a "sour puss". The sections are okay and you can make the best of them if you do all your readings - which seems like nothing but will prove to be so much more than that.
Aside from a couple of weeks at the end of the semester, you don't really learn anything that can be practically applied. So, it's great if you want to go into theory or academia, but if you're interested in actual, hands-on work in the government, it's largely a waste of time. But, you have to take it anyways so enjoy.
It really comes down to which TF you get. My TF was super intense, which made doing all of the readings an absolute must. There's also a lot of readings each week, most of which are pretty dense, which makes essay writing difficult. The lectures are pretty boring; you could probably get away with not going to most of them. It's pretty much like Expos, but focused entirely on Gov. It's required, so you get what you get. Hopefully they will improve the class next year.
I really enjoyed gov 97. Despite being required, tutorial had great discussion and while the readings were long, they were worthwhile. Lectures are a bit slow, but every few weeks there is an interesting professor or topic in lecture. I think the overall experience is highly dependent on your TF and the other students in your section. Overall, minimal work (although at least 4 hours of reading each week) and interesting material.
The sophomore tutorial is great in that it doesn't have many of the concerns of other required concentration courses: the curriculum is dynamic, lectures are interesting, and expectations are reasonable. Being a strong writer going into the course or actively seeking writing help is a must, however, since general writing advice is not as readily accessible.
Get through the essay.
do the readings
Try to get Oliver as a TF. Start your papers before the night before they are due. Do most, but not all, of the readings. Go to the lectures if you want to expand on the materials, but they are not necessary for section.
This class  touches on interesting issues surrounding democracy. The paper topics are vague, so be prepared to struggle with papers.
Gov 97 is a requirement of all gov concentrators, but it's one of those classes where you get out of it what you put in. Part of it definitely has to do with your TF (and I was incredibly lucky to have an amazing one), but the other part has to do with what you put in. You learn so much if you do as many of the readings as you can, and this is especially helpful during discussion in section, as well as for the papers. Great class, just make sure you establish a good relationship with your TF and that you understand what's required of you in the course.
This class will be difficult if you do not keep up with the reading.
The structure of the course provides for only shallow discussion of each topic and the readings and paper topics are restrictive to the point that they are not incredible interesting.
all of your grade depends on 3 papers and section - prepare well!
I would say take this course, but if you are a government concentrator, you are going to have to anyway, so I'll just say: be enthusiastic for this course! It can and will be awesome if you get the right TF. If you are not feeling it with your assigned TF by the first section, then try to switch out. Since the professors rotate every week, and the vast majority of learning is done in the two-hour weekly sections, your TF will make or break the course. Also, be prepared for a LOT of readings: form a study group ASAP, ideally with your section-mates. It will be worth it come paper-writing time.
Be strategic with your readings, since section won't probably cover all of them. Identify which ones are key, and know them well for upcoming paper topics. Attend lectures for the ideas, but you don't need to be too careful about taking notes since it's the concepts that are important to grasp, not the minutiae.
Government 97 isn't as painful as they make it seem. Just really take the time to read, get to know your classmates and especially your TF.
Only take this because you have to (as a government concentrator) or are interested in getting lectures from all of the gov professors.  It's just too big of a catchall class.
This is a great introduction to the Gov department. It is also, not too demanding and there are no exams!
Although this class is known for its difficulty compared to many other government courses, I will say without a doubt that it was one of the most rewarding classes I've taken at Harvard. The weekly readings were relatively enjoyable and not too tedious, and the section component (wherein lies the magic of the class) was extremely engaging. The class forces you to hone your argumentative and analytical skills, both in speech and on paper, and I feel as if I've become a much better student as a result.
Make sure to stay on top of the readings for section and get to know the TF really well. They began to take attendance this year so try to go to lecture.
Study group are very helpful in order to keep up with the readings. Sections are great, and the lectures cover a variety of topics. The span of the course covers snippets of all 4 subfields of the Gov concentration requirements, so you get to get a taste of each subfield.
It's mandatory, so all you can do is try your best. Go to the Departmental Writing Fellow for paper help, talk to your TF. Do NOT hand anything in unless it's been seen by one or both of these people. Work hard, start the papers early and you should be fine! Also, make sure to speak up in section - it's small and section is worth a considerable portion of the grade.
Gov 97 isn't that bad. Just be able to talk intelligently about the readings in section and you'll be fine. Papers aren't that bad. It's a pretty good overview of the gov department.
Great Overall view of topics the gov department covers.
Gov 97 is a lot like expos in that many people are expected to get the same grade so expect to be disappointed and have to show improvement throughout the course. Definitely ask for help and sign up for the writing sessions with the writing fellow. I recommend writing a draft, meeting with the fellow, re-writing, then meeting with her again to make sure. Paper turns out a lot better
While the information they give is rather redundant, the papers are your chance to challenge those thoughts. Section is also a time to question and expand your understanding, so take advantage of it!
I mean, you have to take it anyway if you're a concentrator. It's not a tough course, and the material can be engaging if you take in all the arguments and think about your point of view.
Join a reading group.  You should try to do the readings yourself anyway, but it is helpful to have a collection of notes for all the readings when you are writing your papers.  It's hard to find time to take all of those notes yourself, and it is helpful to have at least those outlines if there is a week where you are particularly swamped with work and don't have time to do all of the reading yourself.
This class is fun and one of the best I've taken at Harvard! The lecturers are thought provoking, sections are pain-free and the section leaders are great.
Be prepared to read a significant amount every week
Be prepared to do a lot of reading, but it is very skimmable. Just get the main argument of each of the authors and you'll be prepared to participate in section and even structure your papers. I've heard most of the section leaders are really great, and there wasn't a time I didn't want to go to section, even at 9:00am on Tuesdays.
Be sure to prepare for section and do the readings, so that you can effectively participate.
A really thorough analysis of the state of American democracy and the role of democracy in the world. An incredibly relevant course in the 21st Century.
Your experience, like most courses, will depend on your TF. Every TF will require something different of you (for every section) to make sure you are doing the readings (like response papers, presentations), however...certain TFS are way better than others at making sure you understand the readings.
Organize reading groups! It's impossible to do all the readings and this is the most efficient method.
You have to take it : ) pray for a good TF! Otherwise this course could be a real bummer... The lectures were enjoyable for the most part - especially the roundtables. Every once in a while there's a dud though. And your section will be super important, since you'll spend most of your class time in section and your TF will determine your grade... if you can't tell, I had a bit of a harsh grader as a TF, and I'm a little resentful. Also, our sections did not add much value to my learning experience. Pray for a good TF.
There is a lot of reading, but this course gives you a bit of all that government has to offer
Have fun, because you have to take it. It's difficult to learn how to engage with the readings, b/c the instructors don't really help you understand how to approach it.
This is mandatory and overall pretty painless if you give yourself time for the essays. Section is up for grabs, I had Amanda and she was awesome.
great for someone who likes gov
This class is excellent because it teaches you the diversity present within the field of political science. The first few weeks are a bit dry, but for those who enjoy theory it could potentially be fascinating. Overall, all the information you learn throughout the course is useful and interesting to learn about.
Prepare to work but be rewarded and fulfilled by doing the readings and putting effort into the assignments
Its a requirement. If you have a good TF you should be fine. The amount of reading is ridiculous, for a study/reading group!
Get in a reading group!
Oh hey there Gov concentrator. You don't really have a choice in taking this, so just make up your mind to enjoy it and it'll all go smoothly. Section is kinda make or break, so try and do most of the reading and contribute- it's small enough that all of you should feel comfortable
learn to skim the readings and get the gist of its saying, start essays early
It's a class that government concentrators are required to take, so just endure through it.
Hard/a lot of reading but worth it. Excellent overview of government.
You learn a lot of quality information but the reading can be a bit excessive at times.
This class sucks. It's one of those required courses, so that should tell you something. I think that you have to be really interested in democracy because that's the only thing you talk about for four months. The goal of the course is to basically convince you that democracy is the best thing ever and why everyone should love it. Your TF and section make or break this class. I had a horrible TF so I did not enjoy the 2 hour long sections at all. The readings are boring and many times the lectures are irrelevant, so don't go if you don't absolutely have to.
its a lot of reading but its manageable. how this course goes will depend almost entirely on your section leader so keep your fingers crossed.
Don't take as an elective.
Lectures are not necessary for papers, Adam is an amazing TF, there is a lot of reading and most people don't do it all because there is too much of it, start papers in advance, and take advantage of your TF's office hours, it will help you think through the material. Some lectures are pretty cool though if you are interested in a specific topic.
fantastic course! nancy and dan are excellent, the speakers they bring in are excellent.
Class is not too bad. The lectures are however. Also, they have almost nothing to do with the actual assignments, so do what you will with that information..
Learned a ton
Gov97 is a broad overview of ALL that the government department has to offer. Prepare to have no cohesion between lecturers, however you be able to narrow your interests down based on the course.
Do the readings, go to lecture, go to section... and things will be fine. Do expect tough grading in the beginning of the course and be prepared and caught up on readings before they hand out essay topics. Don't fall behind.
Gov 97 is an excellent introduction to political science, but it can be a bit repetitive if you have taken many similar courses in the past.  Also, it is quite easy for a tutorial.
This course was VERY useful, despite the fact that it went over themes and topics that were covered in other introductory government classes. This course requires a substantial amount of reading, and you are unlikely to be able to devote enough time to read everything thoroughly.
It's required.  Do the short readings, ignore/skim the long ones.  It's the difference between "I have to make my point in 3 pages" and "I can make my point in 20 pages!"  Skip the days with the panels.
It is difficult, be prepared.
It was not as bad as I thought it would be, but I wouldn't say that it was a course I would take if I didn't have to
You have to take this course if you are a gov concentrator.
The class gives a nice overview of political science, but you don't leave the course feeling like you've really gained a new understanding of the world or of democracy.  It's too broad to have a real impact on your learning.
Gov 97 is essentially a sophomore version of Expos on democracy and your experience will largely depend on the TF you are assigned. The readings are definitely worth reading through for your papers, so be sure to read as many of them as possible. Don't forget to use your TFs for advice and get to know them! They are your lifeline to staying afloat in the course, so keep in touch.
This class is a requirement, but if you take it seriously and do the work it can be very enjoyable.
The guest lecturers are of varying quality and the readings were dense and sometimes irrelevant. Section however, was fantastic and the philosophic levels that we reached with each others' help were exhilarating.
you have to take it, just hope for a really good section leader.
Share the reading!
Considering your entire grade is all about the TF, it's great that virtually all TFs for the course are extremely good.
Although this course introduces you to some of the foundational works of political science, it at times seems aimless and irrelevant. The readings are tough to get through, the lectures are tough to stay awake in, and overall, it is sometimes tough to see the broader arc of the course. I will say, though, that the section component is outstanding, and if you get a good TF, some interesting discussions will ensue.
Great tutorial.  The section component allows you to really dive into the material.
Difficult grading but you will grow as a writer. Coursework is interesting.
Form a study group because not only are there a substantive amount of readings per week, but the readings are also incredibly dense. Be sure to write an outline for your essays in order to receive feedback from your section leader if you want to do well on those essays. That being said, your TF shapes your experience in this course.
It is required, but it was also a great class. The TFs are great, and section is a really rewarding experience. Do the readings - it makes section more valuable, and if you're interested in government then they're also quite interesting.
Lectures sometimes were very interesting and sometimes completely random and boring. The theme of this class is "democracy" and I often found myself wondering how a certain topic fit in and was connected to last weeks topic. Democracy is just too broad a subject for a class.
There is a lot of dry, long and tedious readings.
This class is highly dependent on who your TF is. Lectures are often boring and irrelevant, so many students ended up not going altogether. My section leader was amazing, so I made sure I did all my readings so I could participate actively. The readings can be a little dense at the beginning, but you will quickly find that your reading abilities will improve tremendously. Overall, this wasn't a difficult class because there were only 3 papers and section.
Only take this course if you are concentrating in Government. There are a lot of readings, all of which are quite dense.
Overall, I felt like this course gave us a very intriguing and well thought out introductionto democracy. I feel like I learned a great deal both in section and in lecture. The readings werehelpful and though providing, though I feel that sometimes, there was too much information andthe main point the professors were trying to get across got lost or was hard to easily pick up inthe readings.
This is a pressure-free and low-key course that is highly informative and interesting while being relatively painless and undemanding. There is not really a better intro-to-concentration tutorial at Harvard in my cursory conversations with people from other concentrations.
Interesting survey course of the department. Just do the reading to get the key points, say a thing or two in section, and write decent papers and you will be fine. Interesting lectures and cool topics.
It's much different from Gov 20. The materials in this course may disappoint you.
Lectures are hit or miss, and section can be interesting at times. Since there are no exams, just papers, you don't have to worry about memorizing much. Instead, you can focus on what you're interested in. Not a riveting course, but I did learn some important information. I think a lot depends on how your TF and section are.
Lots of reading, but if you read the text you learn a lot about political science
That it's a good class.
DO THE READINGS. it makes your life way easier when you have to write essays and pull from all the articles. plus the readings are really interesting and fun to talk about in section.
Taking Government 97 is extremely worthwhile, and it is easy to understand why it is a required course for the concentration. In addition to covering important concepts in democratic political theory, it teaches students to reason critically and write persuasively. The articles for each week are some of the classics in political science, and section discussions and essay prompts are designed to help students see underlying commonalities across a variety of readings. Moreover, section discussions can be very interesting and fun if you have a strong TF and engaged classmates. Synthesizing numerous articles in the paper assignments is a complex and rewarding task that will help you attain a deeper understanding of democratic politics. In short, Gov 97 is a challenging intellectual experience that gives students a strong foundation for future studies in government.
Get a study group ASAP because there is a TON of reading. Lectures are more interesting than sections - all the professors enjoy coming and speaking about what they love. Occasionally you'll get a professor who goes on for too long about economics (c'mon dude, this is a GOV class) but usually the lectures (while they don't help with the papers) are interesting and useful to turn to in a section where you might not have done all the reading.
There is a lot to get out of section if you put in the time to do the readings and work through the material. Its really a what you put in is what you get out mechanism, and putting a lot in has rendered by a better writer and a clearer thinker.
Gov 97 is a great introduction to the department because it covers all of the main areas of the field.  Having completed the course, I can take pride in being well-read with regard to many authors.
American democracy, interventionism, and capitalism isn't the only frigging answer to world order -.-
All depends on your TF. I loved mine and that made it great for me. Lectures vary. Some are very boring, others not as much.
Grading comes down entirely to your tf, very subjective
All the papers that we wrote were pretty theoretical
The professors and the guest speakers are really interesting. Unfortunately, the class is such a broad survey course that each speaker gets only half an hour or so to speak. They barely scratch the surface of their field, which is unfortunate. Once there were literally 4 professors who spoke in the same lecture.
If you're taking this class, it's because you have to. Idk why else you would put yourself through this. The lectures vary in quality (Feldman + Frieden + Levitsky are awesome), and the readings can be unnecessarily long. I think where this course really excels is section, where you begin to learn how to think and process things like a political scientist. Jesse was awesome for this.
This course affords Government concentrators the chance to explore a variety of themes in democracy and introduces them to the different subfields offered within the concentration. While the course can be a bit demanding in terms of workload and assignments, the lectures, tutorial sections, and course materials encourage deep engagement with theoretical, political, and global implications of democracy. Students are well-trained to think and write critically, skills which are not only important but necessary both within and outside of the concentration.
I know this class gets mixed reviews-- yes, some of the lectures will be boring. But some of them will be incredible, and your sections will (almost always) be some of the best you'll ever have. Because sections are small and based by house (meaning you'll usually know the people in your section), discussions are much livelier than the average ones at Harvard. This is a great, well-rounded intro to the Gov department. There are ups and downs to it, but the workload is pretty low and you'll get a better idea for what within Gov interests you.
Overall, I thought this was a very strong course. Lectures were consistently interesting, section was great, and I felt like it provided a solid overview of the topics covered by the government department. There were aspects that were difficult, but all in all it wasn't too demanding.
Keep up with the weekly readings and engage in class because it will be quite beneficial
Just get through it.
This course only gets better as it progresses, because the material becomes more present day and thus more interesting to the majority of students. Lectures are very hit-or-miss, but usually miss, and the paper assignments are some of the most poorly crafted I have ever seen, requiring students to use readings completely unrelated to the prompt.
Deal with it
This is obviously a necessary course for all sophomore government concentrators, but it is actually an interesting overview of different topics in goverment. Your experience with the class depends almost entirely on your section/TF because that is where you discuss all the topics. The only assignments in the course are papers, so experience with goverment paper writing is also really beneficial.
If you are a government concentrator, you can't get around taking this class. But be warned that this class only conveys the liberal viewpoint on issues, so you really don't get a full understanding of political issues.
This is a required Sophomore tutorial, which means that you will have to take it anyway. The course itself isn't going to be exciting, and to be honest will not leave you with a good impression of the Gov department. It would perhaps be better to come to Gov 97 having already taken a few other classes e.g Gov 20, Gov 40... or doing them concurrently. Not only will these other classes provide a better idea of what a concentration in Gov is going to be like, but they will also give you a preview of some of the readings in Gov 97
Lectures can be great/average depending on the speaker. Really depends on if you have an interesting section. Papers were graded very harshly!
A little boring and the essay are graded harshly so take them seriously
It's a good intro to the department. The class will help you see what subfields/types of gov classes you actually like.
It's a good class, though section varies greatly depending on your leader and will affect your overall opinion of this class.
Be prepared to read a lot
While some of the lectures were not very engaging, the small sections were so refreshing and a great contrast to other courses at Harvard where there are more than 15 students and the younger students sometimes feel discouraged from participating because they don't have as much experience.
Very much an intro to every topic that's covered. Lectures are very surface level and basic. You only hear from professors for a few minutes at times.
It's a lot of reading, but a great time.
Since this is a mandatory class for Gov concentrator's, I know I'm not convincing you whether or not to take it. It's not too bad with a good section leader and section classmates--I actually looked forward to going to section most weeks. Some of the information can be a bit dull, though, so it can be a mixed bag. Same with lecturers--sometimes they're good, sometimes you'll find yourself typing nonsense notes while struggling to keep your eyes open.
Need to do a decent amount of the readings
Going beyond the fact that this is a required course for Gov concentrators, I actually found the material to be very interesting, and section was quite productive and thought-provoking. Lectures varied in quality, as did the readings, but the expansive survey of topics covered in Gov is definitely useful as you begin to think (or rethink) about what subfields particularly interest you. It does require a lot of work because you likely have to do the readings pretty thoroughly, or at least that was the case in my section, and the paper prompts can be unclear or just confusing at times. Overall, though, this course turned out to be a lot more interesting and useful than I expected it to be.
Perhaps this course is helpful for students who have a general interest in Government as a concentration but are unfamiliar with the different options of focusing within the concentration, but as someone who knew what my focus would be, I felt slightly irritated that I was essentially forced to learn about a specific topic that might not have interested me quite as much.  Given that it is a concentration requirement, however, I am unsure of how helpful my piece of feedback to this question will be.
You have to take it and it's not too bad- you better hope you get a good TF though.
The course will give you a sense of what other courses in the Government department are like.
This course was an entire semester of American bias repeated over and over again, with some slight reservations and hesitations from time to time.
The sophomore tutorial is a must-take for anyone concentrating in government, but it's a great course. You are exposed to a variety of fields and professors whose classes you can take in the future. You form a community of gov-concentrators within the house via section, and spend a fair amount of time (2 hour sections) delving into the material with that group. I'd recommend starting the readings early each week because some weeks do have a lot of material.
Shim and our section was the highlight of this class. Focus much more on the readings and section components than the lectures. Some of the lecturers were interesting, but overall there was a lack of cohesion within the lecture. Overall, this is a requirement so most people aren't choosing to take this course, but it is a fairly painless requirement that leads to some intriguing discussions on some of the institutions of democracy.
If this wasn't a course you had to take, I would tell you not to take it. As it IS something you are forced to do for a government major, try to make the best of it. First of all, GO TO CLASS -- truant students got an email 3/4 of the way through the semester informing them that their grades were diving because they weren't showing up. And, when you're in class, try to get something out of it. I personally didn't do many of the readings, to my own chagrin, but many were dry and pedantic, without much of the passion and vigor that make politics and government exciting (when they are)--BUT, some of the lectures and lecturers are fabulous, and they're worth paying attention to, because you'll learn something and might discover a professor you want to work with later. ALSO, consult with your TA about your paper like a mofo -- otherwise, you may easily write something that he/she doesn't want, even if you're already a very good writer. Just better safe than sorry.
Have a general knowledge of political current events. Be prepared for a considerable amount of reading
Rather dry with lots of reading
You probably have to take the class whether you want to or not. Do the readings to stay on top of you work but even if you do that, you still may not like the course.
Gov 97 has the potential to be a great class because they have access to the entire gov department, but often it felt disjointed. Because lectures are not always good or do not seem to fit into the course as a whole, what really makes your experience is your section!
It's a great class.
Its a requirement that you have to take, not the most interesting. Definitely got better towards the end.
For a required Gov course, it's really well supported by the professors and TFs.
This class will let you hone your skills, and expose you to a breadth of writing in political science.
but since its a requirement people will have to take it anyway
Be sure to do at least some of the readings on busy weeks, section will be more awkward than any other class you've taken if you don't read.
This course requires a lot of reading but it's a great intro into Government regardless of how familiar you are with different aspects of it.
The readings in this class are generally good and engaging. The lectures are a mixed bag and are often difficult to relate to the essays, but that being said, you are only graded on three essays which are generally not too much trouble. My TF (Chris) really made this course for me. Otherwise, it would have been subpar. I did, however, learn a lot more about political literature and general democratic theory, which is a good thing.
A valuable class for developing analysis and debating skills.
This course is very section oriented. I really enjoyed this course, but primarily because I had an extremely good experience in section due to an extremely good section leader. Other students who I talked to said that they did not have similar experiences. I would say that this course can be really great if you get lucky, but such an experience is not guaranteed.
Government 97 is focused on democracy and its various different applications. The course mostly focuses on American democracy although near the end there are chances to discuss its applicability around the world. Sections are longer than usual but become a nice community within the concentration, and there is tons of support available for the course in general.
It's boring. I checked my email most of lecture. Section was great though
Keep up with the readings
There is a lot of reading; but the topics are interesting and discussion in section is fun.
Try to stay on top of readings and come to section prepared! Section is the best part of this class and you will gain a lot more if you come having completed all the readings.
This course attempts to be an introduction to government at Harvard and would succeed if offered freshman fall.
Always do your readings, or at least gain understanding of what the authors are arguing and how they are arguing the readings.  It will help during you when you actually have to write the essays and don't have to re-read the authors in order to utilize them in your paper.
If you concentrate in government you don't really have a choice about taking this class, but there is quite a bit of reading so don't take too many other reading classes with this.
tutorials, though graded in a difficult manner (because of the way the gov department has them graded), is the best part of class
Don't be worried about this class!  It's actually really great.  The readings are engaging, and the papers aren't too bad (actually I found them quite enjoyable!).  I think if you start early and go to the writing center, you will do fine.  As I'm sure many other commenters will mention, I think your experience will depend a lot on your TF and your section-mates.  I had a great TF and a section in which everyone seemed to be on the same page -- no slackers and nobody too intense.  I thought that provided for good discussion.
At the surface, it's your typical gov class - asking overarching questions of democracy and governance, and providing national case studies from which to base your arguments. But the real highlight of this course were the guest lecturers who delved into more specific topics that are directly or tangentially  related to democratic governance (e.g. private politics, NGOs, cybertechnology, constitutional analysis, etc). At times the essay prompts can be ambiguous or confusing to tackle, but overall the topics brought up in this tutorial are very worthy of the discussions they have merited in lectures and in sections .
You have to take it, and you have no choice who your tf is, so that kind of sucks. Although, I really did enjoy getting to know the five other people in my section because it was so small.
Lectures can be hit or miss, section is great and the real heart and soul of the course.
I have very mixed feelings about this class. Lecture is haphazard, disorganized, and almost always dull. Section on the other hand was one of the best sections I've had at Harvard due to the closeness that small class sizes and being with your housemates fosters. You have to take this class regardless, but I think a revamping and synthesizing of the lecture component would do a lot for the course.
This course was overall a good experience, and I set my expectations for it pretty low based on others' opinions. Your experience however does entirely depend on your TF. You definitely need to do the readings each week, but they are manageable and you don't need to read each in its entirety to get the main points. This course did surprise me though, because it did not end up teaching what I thought it would. I thought this course would be similar to Expos 20, read and write to better prepare you in the future work of the Government concentration. However, I never felt that I was building on my skills or being reminded why this was a Sophomore Tutorial for the Government concentration, other than that it gives you a very good overview of what democracy is.
It's a requirement, so have fun suffering through what was definitely one of the worst courses I've taken at Harvard. Makes Social Studies shine by comparison...what they're reading and discussing is actually important.
Well-organized, interesting course. Makes you think about the world around you. It's obviously required for a Gov concentrator, but I might even recommend it to one not concentrating.
Lecture varies widely, but tutorials are awesomeget to know your TF, because they are great, and work hard on all the papers, since they're challenging!
This course is a useful introduction to the Government department. Participate enthusiastically in tutorial and treat the lectures as a survey of some of the best professors in the department.
Really good introductory course to the government department! The guest lecturers always had great insights.
You just have to get through it.  It's especially tough near the end of the semester to make it to lecture, especially when you realize that what is said doesn't come up much in section or on the papers.
If you're taking this class, it's because you have to. Get through it and move on.
If you're a gov major, you have to take this class because you have no choice, so the only thing I can tell you - good luck with readings! They might and will be painful so make sure you start doing them early not all of them the night before the section or lecture. It is very useful to have read at least some readings when you're heading to the lecture! Just absorb everything they're teaching you at lectures (make sure you go, they're actually helpful!) and be ready to discuss readings in sections! If you do all the above, you'll do great.
Nothing mind-blowing. Interesting survey. Strongly depends on strength of section.
As far as tutorials go, not bad. If you are a gov concentrator, you don't have a choice. The lectures are generally weak but some are quite interesting. If you have a good tutorial leader, your semester will be much more enjoyable. Try to get in a reading group and take decent notes on the readings-will be very helpful for writing the papers.
Meh.
The best thing about this class is section.
Get to know your TF and what they look for in an essay because this varies a lot and has a large effect on your grade.
I thought the section was the best part. We had a great TF and a group of 8 intellectually curious students from fairly different backgrounds. This made for interesting discussions each week. This class more than anything made me reconsider my previous conceptions about democracy and the role of the US in the world. I found myself thinking about the concepts from class all throughout the week.
Only things that made this class bearable were Ansolabehere and Evann Smith. Ansolabehere is the best professor at Harvard. Take anything he is teaching. Evann is also an exceptional TF. If you can get her you should.
Section might be really great if you get a solid TF!
It's required but the way to make sections fun is to start any debate you can.
Get ready to read
You have to take it... Definitely wouldn't have otherwise. Messy. Try to get Zeynep as a TF, she's amazing.
Well considering you have to take this class, you just have to hope and pray that your section leader is Evann. Your section leader pretty much defines and makes or breaks the entire course for you. I've heard about some really brutal sections but if you get Evann, this will not be the case. The reading load can be pretty brutal so you have to read it strategically and understand which ones are the important readings.
It's a class you have to take. The Government department is huge, and all sophomores will be required to take this class. Just hope you have a great section TF, since other than that, you will have to struggle through this class. I hope they make a lot of structural changes since I know they're trying to introduce us to government faculty but there's no incentive to go to lecture at all.
It's better if you do the readings so you can contribute in sections
Unfortunately this is a required class, so if you're a sophomore concentrating in Gov, you're out of luck. I only found a few of the lectures interesting and there were too many readings that were boring and too long. There are some good TFs, but unfortunately mine was not one of them. It's a very generic course, so be prepared to have some very vague essay questions.
It's not important to attend the lectures, but participate thoroughly in sections and do the readings.
Do your best to be engaged with the material! You might have heard negative comments about the course, but it is really what you make it. I found it to be a good experience, overall.
Readings are okay and manageable.
It's 101-level, and the lectures are useless, but you have to take it so why are you reading this?
Do the readings, go to lecture, write the essays, and all should be good.
The material is interesting and readings aren't bad. But the experience largely rests on your TF.
The section component is really interesting, just make sure that you come prepared so that you can get the most out of it. (And so that you're not put on the spot in the small section).
Despite what other reviewers might say, it definitely could have been worse. The course is relatively painless, though lectures can be tediously long and boring sometimes. The readings are pretty interesting and engaging, and I did find that the course forced me to reexamine some of my assumptions about democracy and look into the implications of the complications that were raised. A solid introductory course in a classic topic in political science.
As far as department requirements go, this is a solid course.  The lectures could be better, but the section discussions, if done properly, are fantastic.
Well...this is mandatory if you want to concentrate in Gov. so I will focus on the pros and cons of the course rather than tell you if you should or shouldn't take it. Pros include that this course will expose you to a lot of the faculty in the Gov. Department and if you have no idea what interest you have in the field of Government, then you will likely know by the end of this course. Also, it covers an essential subject, democracy, that is prominent in current political research. With that being said, however, if you do not like the study of democracy it will be hard to enjoy this course, particularly at the beginning when everything is focused on theory. Overall section and whoever your section leader is will make or break this: if you have a good section, which is two hours, then you will get a lot more out of it than lecture, which at times seemed pointless.
nothing we did in lecture related to section.  people stopped going to lecture because it didn't matter
This course is burdened by lectures and readings that don't really address the topic at hand, and blessed by a strong section component.
This class is actually really helpful to learning about various aspects of government and tying together philosophy, economic development, international relations, etc. It is required for good reason!
I had to take this course as a government concentration requirement. While the variety of topics covered in political science was great and the authors' arguments were interesting to look about, I didn't enjoy the class as much as I would have liked to. The syllabus and assignments need to be more well thought out so your class experience doesn't depend entirely on your TF that you are randomly assigned to.
If you are able to engage with the material in a discussion setting you will be prepared for this class. If you are looking to define and understand the various facets of what constitutes democracy, you will really enjoy this class.
good overview, my discussion section was great as we had some very interesting debates, the essays were a bit nebulous and hard to figure out for me though
Lot of reading but easily manageable.
This class improves every year, but still has a long way to go before it is taught in a high quality way.  Hopefully the professors incorporate some of the feedback given on the Q guide.
It is a pretty awful course, and unfortunately the first required course you may take. The lecturers are all guests and it serves to create a very disjointed class. Enjoy.
I really enjoyed hearing different professors from the government department lecture. That gave me a better sense of what classes I might want to check out in the future. Sections were also a fantastic way to meet fellow government concentrators in the house, and the TFs really were great in facilitating discussion and providing comments on the essays. Assignments were fair and readings interesting. Really do schedule a meeting with the Department Writing Fellow, she is extremely helpful with essays and awesome to talk to.
Class was not too thrilling, section has high potential though
Do the readings and participate
just bite the bullet its something required that shouldn't be this hard but unfortunately it is.
If you have a good section leader you'll be all set.
Your grade will depend on what TF you get. You have to print out hundreds of pages of reading each week (No course pack). A sometimes very painful 2 hour weekly section. Talk about the readings for 2 hours. No current events or videos or any other type of activity.
The workload is not too bad with only three big essays but the reading per week can be pretty heavy. If you get a good section leader it can be really nice.
Gov 97 is mandatory for all concentrators, so you have to take it. But it's pretty good so don't worry!
The class is not bad at all. Although it may start out a bit boring, the readings get more interesting as the year goes on.
Well, it's not like you have a choice.  The course was good in the sense that the issues and authors covered are important.  The essay prompts should be reconsidered.  For example, the second prompt asked students to evaluate an author's argument, causal pathways, etc., which we had never really learned how to do (not that I remember, anyway).  I guess, on the other hand, they are broad enough in that they allow flexibility.  Also, I didn't like how the course policy randomly changed from having the Head TFs be the ones who grant extensions to having individual TFs granting extensions.  Created too much variability among sections.  Heard stories of some TFs refusing to grant extensions and others granting 3 day extensions.
Pretty cool intro to the Gov department. You cover a lot of ground and get to hear from a lot of different faculty and other relevant Gov people. There are a lot of readings but they're (mostly) not too bad and there's not really a penalty for skipping some here and there. The essay assignments are all short and pretty easy too so that's good! The quality of your experience will probably be mostly by your TF so just hope you get a good one!
It's kind of overrated. If you have reservations about government, I highly recommend that you don't take this.
It is a general government course that does not have much of a focus, aside from explaining everything about Democracy.
definitely be aware that this course, like the major, is focused toward political science. you can probably get a perfectly good education in government by majoring in something else, reading the news, and taking the 1060/1061 series.
Your success/enjoyment of this course is highly dependent on your TF. If your TF seems clueless during the first section, you should try to switch.
Hope for a not terrible TF
I felt that although the material is really broad and thus sometimes disjointed, the Gov tutorial gives you a pretty good introduction to a lot of different fields and you still discuss a lot of interesting things. How much you enjoy the class will really depend a lot on the people in your section and your TF.
"Likely" to recommend for people that have in interesting in theoretical topics in gov democracy.
Gov 97 was actually quite interesting and I really enjoyed it.
if you are gov you have to take it. if not there are so many other gov classes you should take if you want to learn about democracy.
The course is a pretty basic introduction to a bunch of topics that you will almost definitely encounter.  The lectures are boring and feel unrelated at times, and the course heads seem fairly apathetic about teaching it, but overall the class is useful in that it also teaches a variety of types of writing and discussion that are used in political science.
A great abundance of diverse readings about different ways democracy comes about in our world and its relationship to other political systems.  Really enjoyed the visiting lecturers
Take only as a concentration requirement, don't be dumb.
You have to take it. If you go in with the right mindset - about learning about the department and having good discussions with peers - then you'll enjoy it more.
Well this class is required, so it doesn't really matter what I think of it.  Overall, I found the tutorial to be very disappointing.  I was expecting the Government Department tutorial at Harvard to be one of my favorite classes here, but it was far from it.  The course was very disorganized and hard to follow.  The papers were graded unnecessarily harshly.  The guest lecturers all re-used presentations from their own classes and weren't enthusiastic about being there.  All the learning was done in section with your TF.
You have to take it. It's not that painful.
It's a required course for gov concentrators but if your section leader is good it can be enjoyable.
I mean you have to take it as a government concentrator. Do the readings, don't get behind because you will be screwed for the paper. The 2 hour section is pretty brutal and the lectures are kind of all over the place.  The readings are A LOT though so give yourself a lot of time for them.
This class has been one of my favorites so far. It's ability to incorporate so many topics, which accommodate the interests of nearly all students, while touching on the broader topic of democracy truly makes the course unique. Designed to introduce concentrators to famous literature and experts in each subject, GOV 97 is a place for people who want a taste of the field at Harvard and who want to expand their knowledge and interest in all things "democracy."
its required, but stay invested in the material and papers won't be an issue
Not really an option if you're a gov concentrator, still a great class though. Readings aren't always that relevant to lecture, but keeping up with them is important for section.
Do the readings, super interesting! Also take good notes in lecture and on the readings, it will really help with writing the essays.
it is really interesting and if you're a fan of government, then the readings are engaging
The lectures tend to be irrelevant to your essays, but they are very interesting. You have long tutorials, so make sure you do the readings so that you have something to talk about in tutorial.
Don't worry - it may be required, but this class is the most interesting and thought-provoking class I've taken so far at Harvard, and it makes me really happy to be a gov concentrator. The readings are usually extremely interesting and enjoyable, even the essay topics are cool and fun to write. My TF, Shanna, was also amazing at leading section, super smart, and very helpful with papers. My best advice is do NOT procrastinate the papers, and always, always, ask your TF for help on them! The papers are only 7-8 pages, but they require a lot of thought and analysis, and if you procrastinate or don't talk to your TF about your outline, it will be really hard, but if you stay on top of it and get help from your TF, you'll be good to go!
The class is based on the assumption that democracy is the best form of government and doesn't necessarily challenge that assumption.
Like most concentration tutorials, this class is not particularly interesting. I do believe it is useful for anyone pursuing government, though. Good amount of readings and lecture/section time, but essay assignments were very manageable.
This class completely depends on your TF. Lectures are interesting and the readings are manageable, but in terms of paper writing and discussion your TF determines how much you really get out of this course.
This course is not a very good use of time for government concentrators who already know what it is that they want to study within government. It is extremely disjointed and disorienting to have a new professor every week who speaks about basically whatever it is that they want to speak about. The overarching theme of "democracy" is extremely vague and the connection between so many different topics feels quite contrived.
This class is required of all Government Concentrators, but should not be dreaded. Rather the material is quite interesting and quite enjoyable to think about and discuss.
This has the potential to be a great class; for the most part, the lectures are very engaging, but the section component varies widely and depends on the quality of your teaching fellow.
Doesn't matter!  If you're a gov concentrator, you're in.
It's pretty much your basic template Gov Class but with different lecturers each time.
gotta take the course if you're a gov concentrator
Gov 97 is mandatory for Gov concentrators so you'll have to take it. The lectures are really the best part of the course because you get to hear from so many different Gov professors. I kind of treated the lectures as a mini shopping week, testing out what professors I may want to have a class with in the future. As far as grading and the bulk of the work in the course your TF and section squad can make or break the course for you. I was lucky to have a pretty good section.
Democracy ain't shit.
Although it doesn't traditionally receive great Q scores, I really enjoyed this class and thought the workload was very manageable. I think your experience in the course really depends on the quality of your TF, and mine was great!
this is a really hard class. the number of readings required are absurd. it really takes over your life and god forbid you fall behind. if your TF isn't good, it's over for you.
Obviously, since this is a gov concentration requirement, you have to take it if you are planning on concentrating in gov. But, I want to let students know that this course is a poor example of what a gov course is. It felt disjointed, unfairly biased towards Western Democracies, and intellectually stifling. I have only ever taken one course that was as honestly irritating as this one. The only reason this course is not my least favorite class I have ever taken is because of the section that I had. This course does put you in a room with all of the concentrators in you class year, which gives you a chance to see some faces you would have never otherwise seen. And being in section with you housemates is a true joy. I loved my section. We bonded so much we have a massive group chat and get weekly dinners. So suffer through lecture and hate the papers, but appreciate the amazing concentrators around you, because they are really cool people.
Only take it for requirement.
This is an enjoyable survey course that exposes you to a variety of subfields within the government category.
The section really makes the class. My section was amazing, so I loved it, but for others it definitely wasn't as great.
This class is amazing, especially if you get the right TF!
I mean it's a required course but most likely you really will not get anything useful out of it.
Its required so theres not much you can do regardless. However, it is a good way to learn about different aspects of government from professors across the department.
This course is a bit of a drag. Keep up on the readings or the 2-hour sections will get you.
The course is fine, you really have no choice since it's required for Gov concentrators. I hope they change it so it doesn't have the same democracy-centric focus that ours had. Just be prepared to participate in section and develop a good relationship with your TF. They're super helpful resources to go to when starting and writing your papers.
A bit of a learning curve when it comes to switching lecturers every week, and the prompts can be a bit vague, but it's easy enough.
This course will prove really valuable, as you begin to plot your course through the field of Government at Harvard.
This class falls over itself every week. It doesn't really go anywhere at all. The professors are really into it though, so it probably won't change.
Your experience in this class will depend almost entirely upon your TF and the people in your section. Lectures are fine, and frequently pretty interesting and helpful, but my section was one of the highlights of my week and I the best TF, and that's why I had a good time in this class. Other people hated it because they had TFs who were bad at teaching and facilitating discussion. Without a good TF, its a pretty dry, boring class most of the time.
You need to invest time into this course to get a lot out of it. If you do the readings you will absolutely learn a lot and will think about a lot of facets of democracy and will see different viewpoints. The small size of the sections definitely is a plus as well and allows you to really apply what you learn in the readings. I also loved the readings and diverse lecturers.
This class is really manageable, especially if you do the readings. The readings are pretty interesting, and it makes it a lot easier to fully engage with the class if you do them.
Lectures are a hit or miss depending on who the guest speaker is that week. Also, this course is very section dependent and your TF will make or break your experience in the course. Try to get Colleen- she was great TF!
Obviously it's a required course, so try to make the best of it. It really depends on your section leader (though the 2 hour sections are brutal regardless).
A really great overview of the government department!  It's a pretty manageable and interesting course.
This course lets you hear interesting opinions and theories from a variety of scholars.
This course is a great gateway to the government concentration. The guest lectures are awesome and really makes you look forward to going to class every week. The sections are also great and the assignments are all the same length (6-8 pages).
I think I generally had a more positive experience with Gov 97 than my peers because I had a good TF. But others definitely weren't as lucky. I guess what I say here doesn't really matter because this is mandatory for Gov concentrators, but here's a few thoughts. 1) It's a decent introduction to the field as a whole, but doesn't go as much into comparative and IR topics as one might hope. 2) It's very very US/western-centric, which will be frustrating if (like me) you have a specific regional focus that doesn't fall into one of these categories 3) the essays progressively got worse as it went along. the last essay asked to evaluate the strength of an argument, without giving us much training to do so.
It's mandatory, but overall they do a fairly good job of presenting differing perspectives on pertinent governmental debates of our time.
Fair class and a great way to find your path in the gov department. Don't skip lecture, and make sure you actually do the readings before sectionparticipation is big.
As a tutorial course I thought it was really good. It provided a good overview of the different types of courses offered in the government department. Each week a different lecturer presents a different topic which keeps the course interesting, though it means that there are potentially some weeks on subjects which might not interest you. It definitely affirmed my desire to concentrate in government.
This class is a "you get out what you put in" type of class. Some of the readings can be long and dry, but they're worth doing if you're interested in the material. This class definitely opened my eyes to how to evaluate democracy, and made me consider flaws in democratic systems that I hadn't before. Lectures were generally good, and the new-guest-lecturer every week model definitely kept things fresh. I'd recommend this class, but regardless, if you're taking this class you probably have to anyways for a requirement.
While the idea for a Government Tutorial is promising, this class unfortunately leaves a great deal to be desired. While the theme was democracy, the whole course felt extremely disjointed and the lecture component was far from ideal. The class's saving grace was our section, which was led by an incredibly bright and dynamic section leader that I gained a great deal from. This class is a requirement, so you have no choice in the matter. However, I sincerely hope that the whole course is revamped since this could truly be an amazing opportunity to unite the department if it were better conceived and executed.
It's mandatory, but it's also a solid class!
you have to take this course, so I'd recommend making the best of it. There are a lot of readings so try to get ahead on those.
It's necessary to get a Gov concentration but to be honest, not very fun/pretty boring.
This was definitely a requirement course. They do a good job of making it interesting, and the TF really makes all the difference. There's a decent amount of reading but only 3 essays makes it manageable.
The section component of this course is so important; make sure to come prepared, do the readings, and participate in discussion. Don't be afraid if you don't feel knowledgeable about the subejct -- that's what the readings and sections are for! This is a great survey class, and Jacob is a great TF!
If you are concentrating in gov you have to take this class so it doesn't really matter how it is. It really comes down to how your section is, since that is the real tutorial portion of the class.
This course is so enlightening and fun!
even though gov 97 is a mandatory class, i found it was a really awesome introduction to the government concentration at harvard. you get to see a lot of different professors and be exposed to a wide scope of topics in government
Do all of the readings and keep a record to make writing your papers much easier
It's a necessary class, but the sections (with a good section leader) are really the most redeeming part. Take note of which weeks/sections interest you, because that's a good indicator of the fields you want to explore deeper. See this as a difficult class, but a great introduction to a swath of topics.
The lectures are awesome and are some of the most interesting classes I have had at Harvard. The guest lecturers, like Putnam and Stephen Rosen, are amazing, as are Michael Rosen and Ryan Enos, the course administrators. Hearing the experts in the field and pioneers of new methods and ideas discuss their work is incredible.
Gov97 is a great survey of the department.  The lecturers are interesting.  Doing the reading isn't always necessary, but it certainly helps in section and for the papers.  It seems like the quality of your TF makes-or-breaks your experience, and I got lucky on that front.
I mean, if you're a Government concentrator you have to take this, so I don't see the need to actively recommend this.
You have to take this class- do the readings and leave yourself plenty of time to write the papers and you can do well.
This class is underwhelming, but if you have to take it for Gov, you have no choice. The small sections are really nice, and give a great chance to get to know other people in your House in Gov
This is a mandatory class for gov concentrators, so they have to take it if they are concentrating in this subject, but don't expect to get any very specific knowledge out of this class; the span of information is broad and it's meant to give people a taste of each thing.  At the same time, discussions were often also broad (TOO broad), and I wished there had been some sort of sheet that had some of the big concepts that were important to understand.  So make sure you take good notes and that you ask your TF what the essential concepts are.
It is a lot of reading, but good practice for future government courses.
The class was fine. The readings can be a bit excessive (but I guess that's most gov classes) and every now and then you'll get a lecturer or panelist that goes a little rogue, but overall the class is very manageable. At the very least, it does a fine job surveying the topic from various angles of political thought, and that alone will make you more rounded in the field.
While I, personally, did not find this course to be life-changing, it does cover many different political science topics in the field. The guest lecturer format is quite engaging, but there is a strong focus on America and not the rest of the world.
I highly enjoyed this tutorial. I learned a lot about many different areas of the gov department and gained a better understanding of my own interests.
Hyper-focused on democracy, but offers variant and interesting perspectives on said topic
This class can be very informative and enjoyable if you put in the time and effort. They grade the essays pretty harshly so be sure to meet with your TF or the writing fellow. Overall I genuinely enjoyed this class and I learned so much about how important studying politics can be.
Super super boring unless you have a genuine interest in the mechanisms of democracy
My experience with section was generally positive even as the lectures were generally underwhelming. If they stick with the "democracy" theme then the lectures will often dance around the same underlying issue (aka democracy is an ambiguous word that people use to mean very different things) without ever actually solving it. And then you can hear 15 different professors comment on that, with only Mansfield addressing it head-on. But I loved my section and looked forward to it every week. If Shim is TFing again, then hope you get him!
This is a good class, and it's mandatory, so you might as well get excited about its subject content. You are most likely to succeed if you do the readings in good faith each week; every section is 2 hours and the papers each examine three or so weeks of the course in detail, so it's best to keep up with it all.Go to office hours if you don't understand a reading, and definitely go before papers are due with an outline so that you know you're writing a paper your TF will be interested in reading. The expectations really differ from TF to TF and even from section to Colin, the writing fellow, so just be aware of that and plan ahead.
Do as much of the reading as possible, but don't kill yourself over it. You'll need to have a solid grasp of the readings for each of the papers, so make sure you understand at least the main points each author makes.
MAKE SURE YOU GET SHIM AS YOUR TF -- AND MAKE SURE YOU GO TO HIS OFFICE HOURS! Shim is a really great teaching fellow and will make time for you if you are having trouble with the readings. His weekly outlines are really helpful for clarifying the big picture, and as a graduate student with a focus on theory, he really brings a lot of insight to this theory-focused course (the first half of this tutorial is theory...). I personally do not like political theory, but I think I have a much better grasp of it after this class. I also think that this class does an excellent job of teaching you how to think, rather than what to think. I found it challenging (DO NOT underestimate the time commitment) but fun!
You cannot opt out anyway - but it is actually fine. More reading than you would want to do, but the section component is really fun! Don't expect to get an easy A, even when you have taken multiple gov classes before. They want you to develop over the course.
Find a good tf, because ones that won't work with you can only bring your grade down.  You only work with a tf and not a professor, so find one you like.
The class wasn't as bad as expected. Lectures ranged from really good to very boring depending on who was lecturing that week. Section was generally interesting, but it depends on the TF. Papers weren't too difficult.
Considering that this class is mandatory, it could have been worse. Section was great and allowed for some inspired discussion about political science's biggest topics, but the lecture structure gets old after a while. You can tell that most of the people in the class don't care to be there, and some leave early despite being told not to leave. It's quite disruptive. But overall, I learned a lot in this class, and it provides a good survey of the literature.
A great class, do the readings, attend the lectures, and keep the conversation going about the content with your peers. My section leader was just phenomenal, and really made me love the content. Also a great way to get to know which government faculty do what type of work, and makes you realize how many all-star government professors we do have at Harvard.
It's required for gov concentrators, so you don't really have a choice. The quality of your TF makes or breaks this course.
If you're a Government concentrator, the course is not terrible, and it is a nice forum to debate politics. Would not recommend to non-Gov concentrators, however, just because the material is quite dry, and other classes (Gov 20, 1740, 1295) provide better introductions to specific debates in political theory and their applications. The class is fairly easy, even if you don't regularly do the readings. Section is fun and engaging (although my TF was particularly good) and the essays are not too much work. Definitely not a fun class, but not something to dread either.
You have to take it, so just do it.
You have to take this class if you're a gov concentrator, so if you're a gov concentrator I'd recommend you take it.
It's not like you have much of choice. Instead of feeling so sad about having to take this class, make the most out of it and enjoy!
I mean, if you're a Gov concentrator, you don't really have much of choice. Grin and bear it.
You're forced to take this class, so you'll be happy to know that it's quite good. Lectures are hit or miss, but mostly hits, and section is so long that you can't help but get deep into the material. For government nerds, this tutorial is a great introduction to the concentration.
My section was great, and I think section is probably where you do the bulk of your learning. However, this course needs more coherence, in terms of drawing connections from week to week. That's hard to do because each week's lecturer is very different, but some more effort should be put into showing why the lectures are organized the way they are. Also, I am a bit disappointed by the US-centric/Western-centric nature of the course. I know it's a tutorial on democracy, but that does not exclude local perspectives from other parts of the world. Too many lectures were entirely based on the assumptions that democracy is the only right way and the US has the best regime without addressing how we established those assumptions in the first place. This needs to change if Gov 97 is meant to be a forum of critical academic discourse, not willful acceptance of ideas.
If you are still deciding whether you want to be a government concentrator or have government as your secondary field, I would only recommend this course if you don't really know about your interests within political science at all. If you know you prefer comparative politics, or anything with a more international focus I would not recommend this course as it is pretty American-centric
Since this is a required course, it is irrelevant to recommend or not recommend this course. I would just recommend reading all of the required readings carefully since they will be indispensable for successful essays and section participation. I would also urge you to communicate regularly with you TF.
How much you enjoy this class depends entirely on how your TF handles section. Lecture is totally unnecessary to your final grade, but attendance is mandatory, which sucks the joy out of it. It is really cool the section is in your house though because you get to know a lot of other students in your grade and concentration who also live with you. Definitely take he time to foster those relationships.
It is a great course is you are interested in Government or Democracy!
It's mandatory for all Gov concentrators, so you don't really have a choice with whether or not you can take this class. That said, your TF will make a world of difference in your Gov 97 experience; just be mindful of that. Finally, nail the essays~ since there are only three assignments in this class (plus section participation), it's hard to bounce back from a single bad grade. Stay up to date with your readings if possible, but mostly just make sure to start on your essays as soon as the prompts are released.Protip: Go to lecture, even if you disagree with the content or presentation of the lecturers, it'll really be useful to understand what's going on in the class
This is one of those courses you kind of just have to take. It provides a brief introduction to a series of topics within government, which is nice. The main problem with the course is that it takes the previously mentioned strength too far. Classes are vastly different, and having different professors every week seriously hurts the continuity and cohesion of the class. Nothing is addressed with much depth or is built upon, and it is often difficult to find any connection between the topics discussed in different weeks, a problem that is particularly concerning when one has to integrate readings and lectures from several weeks to write an essay.
This course is quite mundane and really doesn't teach you very many skills that can be applied to other government courses.
This is a fantastic course! It allowed me to better understand which of gov's four "sub-fields" I was most interested in. You'll learn a lot from a variety of interesting professors!
I would advise against taking a class that is supposed to help you decide what you want to study in Government. It doesn't make much sense as most Government students are attracted to Government because they know exactly what about Government attracts them. Students here can decide what they want to explore on their own. Forcing them to be open to concepts they do not want to study is not exactly beneficial. But alas, you have to take the course. So it goes.
You have to take this class, why are you reading this? It's a fine class, Angie is a great TF and the two main professors are both pretty interesting.
There is a ton of reading but very manageable. Interesting class.
Section will make or break your experience. Lecture is pretty irrelevant and the lecturers are sometimes incredibly boring, but there are a few gems! This course definitely made me appreciate different aspects of the U.S. political system. Shanna (my TF) was incredibly nice, responsive, and helpful. Readings can be SO dense and long, but there are also a few weeks with really interesting readings or relatively light loads.
It's actually more interesting/relevant than you would think, but be prepared for a pretty heavy workload
The course gives a very good overview of the Gov department and there's something in it for everyone.  The workload isn't too taxing and there's a lot of help available for papers, although the experience depends somewhat on the TF.  However, the essay prompts were very uninteresting and difficult to address.  Overall, I really enjoyed the readings and discussions though, and the course is definitely worth taking!
I found it to be very interesting lecture. Section was GREAT!!
This class is mandatory for concentrators, so I don't have much to say here. However, I do highly recommend concentrating in Government, and this tutorial contributed to that opinion.
It all depends on your TF. Lectures will happen and that's that. But you spend so much time learning from the TF that it makes or breaks everything.
If you're reading this it's too late. AKA you're a Gov concentrator who has to take this anyway, so stop procrastinating on whatever you're doing by reading this Q guide :)
While this is a mandatory course for Government concentrators, I definitely feel that this is a class you should look forward to. It's not the most internationally diverse class (then again, I'm in IR), but I felt that it was a great survey of important topics and perspectives in Government.
Much more interesting than I would have expected from a required sophomore tutorial. If you've taken many other classes in the department, you'll likely have some repeated readings (or even professors) in class. Section always had good discussion and TFs gave excellent feedback.
You have to take it as a government concentrator so there's no way around it, but keep up with readings or the essays will be daunting.
Great class
Make sure you are certain you are concentrating in government because if not you do not need to take this class.
Prepare for a strange mix of lectures, ranging from the downright awesome guest speakers (i.e. Noah Feldman) to others with far less engaging presentations. In other words, prepare for death by a series of boring Power Points designed by speakers you will talk right through you, rather than engage with you.
Though there isn't a real incentive to do all of the readings, you will get much more out of the course if you do.
Chris was such a good tf. Not only did he bring cookies for us on most days but he just had great overviews of the reading and really cared about us learning about it. Great help during the papers. The lectures are at times boring but the sections were always pleasant. The papers are doable. If you are a concentrator, you have to take it so best of luck !!
