Dr. Goldenziel is great! I enjoyed the experience.
If you are interested in the topic you are studying and are willing to work hard you can get a lot out of this experience. Build relationships with your faculty member, allow yourself to be challenged by the process, and you can learn important skills that can help in future research projects.
If you have the opportunity to expand on research started during a seminar course, I would highly recommend it!
It totally depends on whom you work with in the Government department and how you structure your project with your faculty member, but it's a pretty neat opportunity.
I enjoyed the opportunity to work with Jill Goldenziel, and found the research interesting and engaging.
This is a great way to get to know a professor one-on-one and also practice research methods if you plan to write a thesis.
Pick a professor who is doing something you are also interested in.
The quality of the Gov 92r experience is completely up to you and your professor. Pick a professor that you know you will enjoy working with, and select a topic that you will enjoy researching and the experience will be a great one.
You can learn a lot from this course, but make sure it's the right fit for you and that you have clear expectations about what you will be doing.
Doing research with an incredible mentor sets you up for a lot of opportunities and a lot of great personal skill development.
A great opportunity. Be sure to discuss the details with your professor beforehand to ensure an optimal experience.
This is a great course for seniors and students looking for an independent project looking to interact with a faculty member of the government department. It's personally really rewarding to work on a personal project and follow it through; personally, my project has future beyond one semester and long term tangible results.
This is a great opportunity for students who are figuring out what it is that they are interested in and what kind of research toolkit they are interested in assembling. I think its an especially good option for students considering graduate school in government/political science.
For this course, I worked with a law school professor on a research project. It was a great opportunity for me to work on a project that interested me that did not exist in a normal course setting. I would highly encourage anyone who is thinking of writing a thesis and wants to begin the process of research to take this course.
It varies by professor, obviously, but go for it! I had an awesome experience.
This class is completely dependent upon your professor, so it's hard to generalize. I had a good experience, though the lack of structure made things a little difficult.
You should honestly take this class. I truly believe that every student at Harvard should take a research class at least once during their four years here!
As long as you get paired with a committed professor like I did, you will not regret taking GOV 92r.
I highly recommend Gov 92r classes to other students as they allow you to work on a topic/project that is in your field of interest and build a close relationship with a Professor in that field.
The opportunity to work one on one with a professor can be quite rewarding. If a Gov 92r is being offered with subject matter that you're interested in, I would definitely recommend it
Amazing opportunity to engage with a research project and get to know faculty.
The opportunity to work for a Professor is tremendous. It complements the government department work, as you are able to apply theories learned and writing skills to original research. I would highly recommend this opportunity to anyone who is genuinely interested in the work of a specific Professor.
If you are ever given the chance to work closely with a professor on a specialized topic, don't miss it. Probably one of the best opportunities at Harvard.
Professor Mansfield was great, really got to learn about the history and presence of american politics!
