Read the text and listen to Mike/go to his office hours! All of the difficult parts will be much clearer then....
I think it provides a lot of really useful skills for political science.  I would recommend it to someone writing a thesis and planning to use statistical analysis.  I would tell them that it is challenging but the professor and TF are very accessible and helpful.
Oddly enough, this class is a lot of fun. I think even if you only plan to read papers that use quantitive methods, you should take this course, because you will be able to judge more critically what it is that the authors are doing.
This is a very useful class, but the material is overwhelming and it doesn't stick too easily.
This is a political science course, not a simple government class.  Be ready to learn what it is like to study what political scientists study.
Well I would tell them that this class is very enjoyable and interesting- how many gov courses are there where you turn in a problem set?  Also, I would tell them that you do have to work and try to understand the concepts, however the professor and the TF in this class are very knowledgeable and may provide you with more in-depth learning.  Moreover, this class is very useful because as we learned in the first class or so, this class may help you understand a little more in the field you are studying in.  And finally, some logic is important for you to fully comprehend what we are studying- i.e. everybody must think outside the box from time to time.
This is a great class to take, especially if you are a government concentrator who is planning on writing a thesis.  If you simply want an introduction to statistics, I would recommend it as well if you have interest in government related topics.  The course is very applicable, and you will walk away with a wealth of useful information and R-code tips to start in on your own research!
The class is very helpful if you would lie to use any basic quantitative methods, linear or logistic regressions, in your work. However, from what I understand it was substantially harder than the more basic statistics classes like stats 100 or 104.
