Professor Rosen is fantastic and so is this class. Always an enjoyable 2 hours of discussion
Rosen is a great teacher but you need to engage with him because the course is brief and you don't get too much out of the coursework. Use it as an opportunity to write your junior paper!
if you are genuinely interested in this topic, take this course. Thirty pages is a lot if you are taking this class on a whim, but if this is material you are interested in, don't let 30 pages scare you off.
I learned a ton of amazingly relevant information, and Rosen is a true expert and capable teacher. However, the format of the final paper (a non-policy policy piece) is somewhat mysterious, and very difficult to execute - be warned! Consult with Rosen extensively.
If you are interested in the future of war and like doing self-driven research, this is a great class to take. Professor Rosen is incredibly dedicated and really knowledgeable.
Professor Rosen is a fantastic professor who cares a lot about the course material and his students; he's very accessible and provides great feedback based on his experience in the field. A phenomenal class if you're interested in the topic.
if you're interested in security studies and research, take it. Rosen is a great resource and asset. there is not too much structure to the course. you will spend most of the time working on your 30-page research paper
It's difficult, but worth your time.
This course is fantastic.  You learn about a fascinating topic with a great professor, and ultimately show this knowledge in a 30 page paper.
Take this course! The simulations are great and always fun. Rosen is a wonderful lecturer and discussion leader, incredibly adept at incorporating student insights and leaving students with takeaways from each section. The 30 page paper should be started early and it you should consult Rosen extensively - if done correctly, you will walk away having benefitted greatly from the course.
Highly recommended. Professor Rosen is easy to talk to and was highly accessible throughout the semester.
