Lectures often seemed irrelevant to what you needed to succeed in the course. Most of the relevant instruction came in section.
This class was an excellent skills-based approach to Stata and empirical methods of looking at voting in the US. Professor Snyder is one of the most caring, patient, and accessible professors I've ever met, and was always willing to help us with p-sets. While lecture occasionally feels a bit disconnected from the problem sets, and the class seemed a bit disorganized at times, it was a great class that I really enjoyed!
This class definitely has potential, but the lectures were pretty monotonous and disconnected from the assignments.  Section was basically when the TF would go over how to do the assignments...
Even with a very helpful TF and a manageable workload, it is very hard to feel like you are learning a lot from this class. The lectures are very dry, the reading and assignments seem only partially related, and you spend most of your time in this class trying to figure out code.
Take it, snyder and BK are very supportive.
The course is fun because you're working on your own with election data modeling, but it's very much an on your own class. Lectures are not very obviously connected to the work of the course.
Know that this class will involve a lot of Stata work; you'll have to be disciplined if you want to learn things from the readings because the Stata work can distract from that and there's not much incentive to learn the material otherwise aside from the final paper. The
Take this class provided that it's sufficiently small. BK is a fantastic TF and Professor Snyder is incredibly smart. While you may think you know a lot about electoral politics, this class will most assuredly increase your knowledge.
very poor instruction, bad lectures, final paper requires you to do things that you don't learn in the class, unfair grading on homeworks
The professor in this course is so sweet and willing to meet with you outside of class. However, the class focuses much more on Stata than expected and did not delve as deeply as expected into electoral politics.
I would tell students that if they are looking for a course with no tests and just a fairly straight forward problem set, this class fits the bill. If they are looking for an interesting class with worthwhile lectures, this is not the class to take. If you are looking for a class where you don't have to do the readings or go to lecture but could still do well, take this course. That said, the problem sets are tough, even given previous stata experience. I would recommend an alternative course, as I do not really feel like I learned that much.
I would not recommend this course!
some difficult p-sets but the material is very interesting!
This class can seem daunting since it is so statistical, but it's quite fun.
This class needs to be completely re-worked. I wouldn't take this unless it's made so that it's better at teaching Stata.
This class is a good one for those looking for an introduction to political science statistics and analysis with STATA.  It is relatively easy and skipping lectures and sections is totally feasible, as they are mostly boring and irrelevant to the assignments.  The professor has a lot of experience with the material.
This is a fun Government elective.  You will get what you put in.  If you do the readings and pay attention during lectures, you'll learn a lot about elections, parties, voting, and American politics.  If you don't, then you'll at least learn a good bit about Stata and data analysis through section and the problem sets.  Prof. Snyder is very knowledgable and very helpful.  He always makes time to meet outside of class to help work through the problem sets or other topics related to the class.  BK, the TF, was also very helpful.
I took this class to learn STATA while also talking about an interesting topic, and that was probably a mistake.  If you want to learn anything from this class, you're probably going to have to teach yourself, because the lectures don't really help and section is basically going through demo code line by line in the most vague way possible.
problem sets vary from very easy to incredibly difficult. final paper takes a lot more time than is reasonable. but professor snyder is incredibly smart and helpfu.
Not too difficult. Lectures are a little light on info (you'll get maybe two or three small points per lecture, and some seemed a little intuitive...), but the psets are a good lead-up to the final project. You never feel out of your league or anything. Not bad, could be better.
This class was a disappointment. It was one I had been excited about and I don't think I learned much at all. It was highly unorganized and there was not enough communication between the TF and Professor Snyder.
very easy and snyder rocks
The lectures were quite boring and section was not very helpful.  Homework assignments focused around Stata, which was not really taught in the course.  Barely any of the themes we learned in lecture were actually applied in the homework.  It was more an exercise of how well we could use Stata.
This class is really awesome. The material that is discussed in class is incredibly relevant and makes you think about elections and politics at a much higher level. The problem sets aren't anything to be afraid of, but just be prepared to spend some time working in STATA. I personally wasn't a fan of STATA coming into this class, but I came out seeing instances where it makes sense to use it. The STATA work is quite cool and not boring at all, and the TF is more than willing to help with anything relating to STATA. Overall, this class is an absolute must take. Workload is not anything to laugh about, but it really is reasonable for what someone would expect from an elective/concentration class. No doubt one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
This is a pretty easy course that you really don't have to go to class for. Snyder is a nice guy, but can get on tangents really easily. Material is interesting, and psets are pretty easy, but if you don't understand them you can get the code spoon fed to you.
