Professor Kane is a very knowledgeable, enthusiastic instructor who encourages discussion and is always available in his office for feedback on assignments, or just to chat. Readings were interesting and the course material is appropriate for students with diverse academic backgrounds.
1. The professor is SO nice and understanding, and you'll get used to his style pretty quickly. 2. there are so many readings...so come prepared for this.
This class is great for those studying modern Islam or interested in it, and that would be many people as it is more of a hot topic these days. Professor Kane is very good in trying to get students to come to office hours and encouraging them to participate, both online, in class, and in having any of their concerns and questions answered. In this respect he is unique in a good way. The class would have been better if there was an additional hour to allow for more in-depth discussion and analysis of the readings in class. But as it is now, with the online discussion available, perhaps students just need to utilize that more. With only a two hour class, the many student presentations take time away, to an extent, from that which could have been spent learning from his beneficial lecturing and class discussion. Professor Kane is also quite receptive to feedback, and eve encouraged all students to anonymously send suggestions on how to improve the class, and midway through the class he changed some things in response to some student feedback. The readings he chooses for the class are mostly excellent as well. Moreover, the professor was flexible in terms of research topic for the final paper, allowing students to develop topics related to their research interests into a paper.
Awesome syllabus that starts to introduce a person to the breadth of orietations to Islamism and its variants/reactions. Final paper is extremely flexible in terms of topic, and can be used to help you explore an area of interest relating to Islam and politics/modernity.
The class is excellent if you would like to engage with political Islam independently, but I would not recommend the class itself as it felt like a waste of a course.
