Anyone interested in Islam must take this course.
Great course with excellent teaching in lecture and section. Very fun course to take because of my peers, and a relaxed pace. Don't get behind on the reading.  Outside research is sometimes necessary to understand some of the terms/concepts, but again, teachers are always available to discuss.
This is a great introduction to Arabic philosophy. Expect to work hard but learn a lot. Note though that this is not an "Islam in America" class but instead a theology class that sometimes feels more focused on philosophy than religion.
Excellent course for a background on the major theologians and philosophers in the Islamic intellectual tradition.  Lectures are clear and I left class each time feeling quite enlightened.  However, I do suggest you audit the course or take it sat/unsat.  Grading is largely based on the TF whose comments on the midterms were minimal and lacking in depth.  Amazing class, and assessment is understandably difficult with sort of material.  You can get a lot out of the class without dealing with the frustrating grading system.
For all students interested in philosophically engaging with difficult questions and in learning some of the approaches taken by the great thinkers of the Islamic tradition, this is a great class to take.
It is an extremely good overview of a field that can be daunting to approach without a good instructor. Prof. Rouayheb is amazing.
This class is fascinating! The professor inspiring and the material, although challenging, is very helpul to understand a region and a period often disregarded when it comes to philosophy
Brilliant on all fronts--but only if you're into the material for its own sake. This class is not about applying Islamic theology and philosophy to the real world. If you're okay with that, this will be your favorite class.
Professor El-Rouayheb is great and gives a fantastic introduction to a fantastically interesting subject.
Khaled El Rouayheb is not only extremely knowledgeable, he is also very cognizant of his pedagogical responsibilities, and always accessible to his students for any of their academic needs.
Any class with Professor Rouayheb is worth taking! His mild-mannered, patient demeanor makes dense, complicated subject matter less intimidating, as he uses concrete, modern-day examples to simplify and bring the material closer to home. He encourages discussion, treating each student's contribution as equally valid and striving to provide accurate, thoughtful answers. He manages to pack a lot of material into one semester without making it feel overwhelming, and you walk away with a much better understanding of the philosophical and theological debates during the Golden Age of Islam.
This is a fantastic course to get a grip on Islamic philosophy and theology. I haven't known much about the thinkers or thought processes behind them, so getting exposure and detailed exposure at that is fantastic!!! Professor El-Rouyaheb is wonderful as well, and does a good job at what seems to be comprehensive coverage.
This is really a philosophy class. There are gestures toward the political and social context of the thinkers being studied, but the primary focus is on ideas. If you're not interested in reading and struggling with technical philosophical arguments, this is probably not the course for you.
Be prepared for difficult philosophical texts. Make sure you review Greek philosophy
