This course is one of the best I've taken at Harvard. The readings are uniformly interesting and Prof. El-Rouayheb is a skilled lecturer able to discuss the context of a thinker, the major points in his work, and major criticisms of that work in such a way that both clarifies and adds substantially to the reading. That said, between reading, response papers, and section preparation the course is a lot of work and perhaps not for those with only a passing interest in Islam or philosophy.
Prof El-Rouayheb is an excellent lecturer and if you are even minimally interested in the subject matter you should take the class for his lectures.
If you get the opportunity, take anything you can with Dr. Rouayheb. He is personable, attentive, and respectful of students and their opinions. Take this course if you have any interest in Islamic philosophy or political Islam; it will give you a solid foundation of some of the major figures and debates that shaped Islam in the twentieth century.
This may be one of the best courses I have ever taken. Professor El-Rouayheb provides an invaluable presentation and analysis of these thinkers and their ideas. I have researched into the literature of modern reformers before this class, and I have hardly ever encountered anyone providing as useful of an analysis as Professor El-Rouayheb, as his thorough background in philosophy and Islamic thought no doubt helped him do an outstanding job in deconstructing the ideas of these thinkers. He also had many creative insights and observations that I had not encountered before in regard to these thinkers and their thoughts. He did an outstanding job and this course was extremely beneficial. When one considers that this was his first time teaching such a course and that he mostly specializes in the pre-modern period, it is that much more impressive.
Do the readings and the responses, because they really liven the discussion and lectures and open up an intriguing range of inquiries.
Readings are composed exclusively of primary sources.
