This is the best language course I have ever taken. Yuri is a dynamic and engaging teacher who brings Yiddish to life through songs, videos, history and culture. For me this class was transformative. I highly recommend to anybody,especially as long as Yuri continues to teach it.
This class, especially for someone like me with little knowledge of Hebrew, is difficult but rewarding and interesting.  I enjoyed tremendously learning the language.
Even taking a semester or two will teach you a lot and will give you a better background of the Yiddish world of literature and arts.
Really great class, only meets 3 times a week, which is amazing. You'll probably only get the opportunity to learn Yiddish once
this class requires effort, but is very rewarding.
This class was an excellent way for me to look more into my family's culture and language. I would recommend this to anyone interested in learning about their Ashkenazi Jewish heritage or anyone else interested in Judaism in Europe.
I recommend this course without reservation. After only one semester, I felt I was able to engage in conversation and even understand some native speakers. Furthermore, glimpses into Yiddish humor and wit make the class very fun.
Yiddish is a really great class. It's small, which is good, because you get a lot of individualized attention and better mastery of the language. It's not terribly difficult and Professor Kensky is really helpful when it does get hard.
What a wonderful introduction to Ashkenazi culture, and their languages! Very light workload (work an hour a day and you will excel), interesting readings, and an outstandingly good class atmosphere. Eitan really cares about your success, so reach out to him during the semester. He really wants his students to learn, or even just talk about everyday things in Yiddish! Since the course is so small, you really get to interact with everyone in the class, which is amazing for making new friends, and also because Eitan is an experienced Jewish Studies scholar.I cannot think of a reason for NOT taking this class. Also, before you think that no one speaks Yiddish, you are wrong. Take this class - Jewish or not. Also, if you speak German - TAKE THIS CLASS. You will understand 90% immediately, and the 10% (Hebraic words) can be learned throughout the semester.
I loved this course. The small class size allowed for individual attention and many opportunities to share each class. Yiddish is a fun language to learn as it opens the doors to so much about Jewish culture, from humor to literature, cooking to film.
This is a good class.  Yuri is a nice guy and the multimedia aspect of the curriculum is a ton of fun!
Great class!  By the end of the year we could read short texts and stories.   A lot of fun.
This class gives a good introduction both to Eastern-European Jewish culture and to Yiddish.
If you are interested in the topic, I would highly recommend the class.  It's small and you will learn a lot.  Even if it is not totally applicable (though I actually can understand small amounts of German from taking the course, so it has some real-world use), I found it interesting enough to make up for it.
Yiddish was the one class I looked forward to attending each week. It comes from the complex and fascinating tradition of Jews in Eastern Europe but is made very accessible in this course.
Focuses too heavily on passive rather than active skills.
Yuri is a fantastic teacher who brings yiddish to life with songs, stories, film and culture. The class is very fast-paced, but Yuri is an effective teacher and students will really learn yiddish.  This is the most enjoyable class I have taken at Harvard.
Take this course.  It might literally change your life.
The tiny class size makes the class interactive and individualized.
There aren't many ways of truly delving into the world of Yiddish, and this class provides the rare chance to get pulled into the history and the feeling of the language,
You'll learn a lot about Jewish culture and history, and there's nobody better at teaching it than Yuri! This will be your most fun class of the semester!
Be prepared to learn a language. It's not that different from any other language, in the sense that you will  be memorizing lots of grammar and vocabulary. On the other hand, the class can be a lot of fun, especially when we sing songs, and it's not a huge amount of work.
Truly great and eclectic introduction to Ashkenazi Jewish culture. Eitan really cares about every single student, and is very accommodating in choosing the material such that it is best aligned with the students' interests. You really get to know Eitan and other's in the class, and every time, you leave happy after class.Definitely recommended.
Yiddish is a wonderful language and this is a great way to be introduced to it. Eitan is a fantastic teacher. I wholeheartedly recommend this class.
This is an actual language. Know that you have to put in daily work. It takes a lot of work, you will be rewarded though. The class is a lot of fun and you feel you are actually learning a lot. Just make sure you have a purpose for learning yiddish. THERE IS NO PLACE YOU WILL GO THAT SPEAKS YIDDISH. Other than a farm in upstate NY, there is little chances for immersion. You have to be dedicated.
Yiddish A is a really great course that will give you a solid grounding in Yiddish speaking and comprehension. Eitan is a wonderful professor who is always there to help and has a genuine desire to impart Yiddish to the next generation. Take it!
