If you're interested in building your Polish skills, take this class! Not a lot of people enroll, so you'll get very focused, individualized instruction and plenty of helpful feedback from your professor. Highly recommend taking this class.
It is always fun to learn a foreign language, especially onenot commonly spoken. Slavic Da was wonderful in the way that itintroduced not only the basics of the Polish language, but elementsof social, cultural, and political life of Poland.
If you are considering this course make sure you have a strong desire to learn Polish or an affinity for languages. Many people taking the course have been previously exposed to the language in one way or another.
if you are interested in learning Polish it is a great class, with a wonderful professor
Polish A is the class for students with an interest in learning Polish, or with a heritage background. Beware, Polish is a very difficult language to learn, and the first semester of this course is pure grammar. If you are a heritage speaker with concerns about your speaking skills, this class is definitely going to improve your Polish. Pani Baranczak is very accommodating and helpful, and is more than willing to schedule additional practice with each student. The assignments are frequent and lengthy, though ultimately helpful. Exams are fair. The speaking section of this class is excellent, and is probably the most beneficial part of Polish A. Ultimately, I would recommend it if you are interested in Polish. It is relatively easy in terms of grading, but be prepared to work.
the language is really hard, but the class itself is manageable
I think Pani Baranczak does a great job of telling about Poland in a way that inspires me to want to be a part of the culture and learn the language. The grammar can be tricky, but constant oral drills are a great way to cement the knowledge.
This is a very good course and worthwhile. However there is no room for slacking or outside difficulty and even a bad week can echo out. It's fun though. The teacher is good and understands you well.
Professor Anna Baraczak is a wonderful professor who truly cares about her students. She gives great feedback on assignments, making sure to correct all grammatical errors. You must be heavily invested in the class if you are to succeed, which means constantly keeping up with the grammar. The homework can be a bit of a drag at times, as the assignments can be repetitive. Overall, this class is a great foundation towards learning Polish.
Polish is a difficult language to learn!
If you're not naturally good at picking up new languages, be sure you can get outside help since the class goes at a faster pace than true beginning level.
It's a great way to learn basic Polish language and grammar and learn about Polish culture along the way.
The Polish language is great, but you might want to wait until the course itself is better.
This is really a fun class to take.
lots of work, but rewarding
If you're interested in learning Polish, then take it! It's definitely not an easy language, but no previous knowledge is necessary. Great professor.
If you want to learn Polish, definitely take it! The professor is great. Just try your best to speak as much as you can and you'll do better. Also, practice spelling the words a lot.
Polish is a very difficult language, and the organization of the class may make it ore difficult to learn. Pani Baranczak is very knowledgable and approachable, but this class is a difficult way to satisfy your language requirement; do not take unless you are interested in actually learning Polish.
For some, Anna is too laid back about the course. However I think her style is incredibly apt for creating a calm, enthusiasm-generating environment for learning a difficult language like Polish.
This class is completely unorganized and taught poorly. The teacher is inconsistent, always tardy to class, and assigns grades arbitrarily. Being in such a rigorously academic place, I expected a better level of quality from a language course and was most disappointed by this teacher and this class.
This course is fair and rewarding, but if you take it as a heritage student, Pani Baranczak expects a lot more of you. You will definitely learn a lot.
