Pani Baraczak is a true delight. Everything she does leaves me enraptured. She has so many stories about the entire corpus of Polish literary might, she has so much commentary about modern Polish politics, and she is ready to meet you with whatever Polish skills you have!
The usefulness of this course depends primarily on the initiative of the students themselves.
This is the best way to learn Polish at an advanced level at Harvard. If you're motivated to set up the curriculum and do the work you laid out for yourself, then this will be a very rewarding course. A word to the wise: be realistic and practical when formulating your application and curriculum. Challenge yourself but don't plan to do anything you realistically can't accomplish in such a short amount of time.
This is a great course with a great professor, and if you wish to continue your studies of Polish this is the perfect opportunity.
Make sure that you know what you want to read and study and how you want to be evaluated.
I constructed my own syllabus and worked with Professor Baranczak to accomplish what I aimed to accomplish. You will get to do so, too.
Only if you are an independent worker with a good grasp of Polish and know what you would like to read.
If you already have some knowledge of Polish and you want to improve your academic polish - take this course. You craft the syllabus but you have to have a solid idea of what you want to read, write about, talk about, watch (movies about history). I would say there was 15-25 pages of academic reading a week and 20 new vocabulary words and definitions gleaned from texts each week. We also turned in written compositions (2-3 type written pages) once a week. Of course, others may propose other formats but that worked well for our advanced group.
Advance your knowledge and use of the Polish language like no other way possible -- take control of your curriculum, and be guided by one of Harvard's best professors, Anna Baraczak.
Anna Baranczak is a true star. She is so insightful and knowledgeable, and hilarious to boot! She has a keen understanding of modern Polish affairs and is eager to share her enthusiasm.
