As long as you are able to read Latin sufficiently well, this class is not to be missed.
Readings are quantitatively enormous.
A great class -- organized well, taught well, and wonderful reading material, whether or not you've had prior exposure to Augustine or medieval Latin. A note of caution, however, that the reading load is very substantial (not unmanageable, however), so it might be best to have taken another 100-level course first.
The class is a lot of work, but if your Latin is up to it, I would heartily recommend taking it. Anyone interested in late antiquity or Christianity will greatly benefit from reading the first 9 Books of Augustine's Confessions in the original Latin. Dr. Stover highlights a lot of things about Augustine's neoplatonic intellectual formation that you'd otherwise miss. He also explains the intellectual world of late antiquity in a way that makes the narrative more comprehensible than if you were reading it on your own.
Be prepared to read a lot of Latin and do little else--even class consists mostly of translating, with the context and history coming out mainly as it becomes relevant. That said, it's exciting to read Augustine in the original.
It's a good class. When I took it there was a lot of in-class translation and not a lot of discussion, which some people see as a good thing and others see as a bad thing. In workload it's a pretty standard 100-level classics course. The readings were really great. If you have a foundation in classical Latin but not in Christian/medieval Latin, you'll still be fine.
This is a phenomenal course for anyone looking to further their Latin language skills and engage with foundational Christian texts. The workload is challenging but manageable and the secondary readings are very helpful. I definitely learned a lot about ancient rhetoric and style.
I loved this class.  I had always wanted to read Augustine in Latin, so to do it under the guidance of someone who is so familiar with his works and life was amazing.  The readings took me about 2-2.5 hours per meeting, and the exams and assignments were very fair.  The class covers a great variety of Augustine's works, focusing on The Confessions, and introduced us both to the language, and to the historic/biographical context of Augustine's writings.
Ive heard Augustine criticized for being too theological, or neurotic, or simply dumb. Why cant he just get over those pears, man? This is of course a silly way to read him: it misunderstands his intentions, his opinions, his style, and the genres that he wrote in. Take this course to learn how to read him with sensitivity and intelligence. You will find yourself returning to Augustines literary output, for not only was he thoughtful and an amazing prose stylist, but he was so engaged with every idea of his time that his mind was a microcosm of the intellectual atmosphere of late antiquity.
