One of the most memorable courses I have taken at Harvard, and I'm a senior.  The projects are engaging and challenging.  The course pushes students to think critically in a humanitarian way, something new to science concentrators.  The teaching staff are always high energy and engaged.  Awesome course if you like thinking about the way sound shapes us.
If you're interested in music or sound more broadly, you will absolutely enjoy this class.
Grading is stressful (especially without any film/ music experience) but it is worth taking for the experience!
This class was harshly graded and felt like a huge waste of time, even for a gen ed.  There were times were the preface to a lecture was that it served no purpose because none of it was true.
this course is not a joke, be prepared for lengthy hours working, but also a lot of interesting learning
The TF's are great!
The readings are great and not too long, do them. Take risks with the assignments.
This class is my favorite class I have ever taken.  The readings were so intriguing, and the projects were amazingly fun and constructive.  Definitely take this class, especially if you love music/sound!
You will create a different kind of art, which at times will be interesting. However, the information you learn in this class is unlikely to be useful in life, and sometimes making projects can be incredibly frustrating. You have to put some kind of artistic message in each project, and if your point doesn't get across to the TF grading, it will show in your grade.
Look at the syllabus closely and evaluate what traits you have that match the class before you take it. When the class is good, it's really good. When it's bad, it's really bad.
This class makes you think about sound, hearing, and listening in ways you probably have not before.
Definitely take this if you are thinking about concentrating in the humanities! It is also a good way to broaden your experiences and gain new skills, if you are in other departments.
I would tell students to try to learn something new about the world around them and be as creative as they can when it comes to projects.
My favorite things about this course were the creative assignments and the section discussions. The creative projects, like making mixtapes or recording and composing sound pieces, were fun to do, and a nice complement to my essays and p-sets. In class discussions, we explored super philosophical questions and had debates on issues that changed the way I thought about the world around me. If you enjoy being observant, inquisitive, and insightful, take this class. (Or, if you want to make mixtapes and go on fun class excursions, that's cool too.)
It's a fun course that allows you to experience things you otherwise wouldn't have a chance to.
This is an amazing class! I highly recommend it. Not too heavy work load, interesting section and very enjoyable assignments (very few papers).
This course is definitely for people who would enjoy creating artistic sound compositions on sound-editing software programs.
- definitely take it if you loved listening to sound / music
It's very fun, start on projects early though and be creative
Don't let the fact that it's an introductory course deter you from taking it.Don't let the fact that it's a humanities course deter you from taking it.Too often at Harvard, students discount courses for not being science-y or math-y enough or for not being rigorous enough. A sizable number of Harvard students might think of this course as a non-math-y, non-rigorous course. But you CANNOT let that deter you from taking it. There's simply too much to be learned from this class.It will change the way to perceive the world. For the better. Don't miss out.
Interesting class, lots of fun and thought provoking, although you never know where it'll take you next.  The readings are pretty doable, but make sure you plan out what you're going to do for the projects because if you leave them to the last minutes it will bite you in the behind.
Bad Gen Ed option because the grading is harsh. You may spend a lot of time on the projects but get a B.
Great class. Offers exposure to all kinds of material that is certainly rewarding.
Do not underestimate the projects. They take a lot of time and sometimes require you to leave campus.
