HUM10A became my favorite course this semester. Being immersed in an intensive but enjoyable group of dedicated scholars and professors made each of our discussions and lectures dynamic and relevant. I would walk away from two hour seminar discussions wishing we had more time to meet!
People hoping to take this class should know that they probably won't finish all of the reading. Its not impossible, and lots of weeks were very manageable. But there will also be weeks where fortune conspires against you, weeks where you have two tests to take and a paper to write just for your other classes. Youre not going to finish all 34 cantos of Dantes Inferno when you have that much other work, and thats completely fine. Do *some* of the reading, because its incredibly obvious during your section if you didnt even start it, and youll end up looking like a moron in front of your professor. But really, even if you only read 1/3 of what youre supposed to, and if you didnt sleep through the lecture, youll be able to make enough intelligent remarks during your section to remind your professor and TF that you still exist.Also, and I know its the most clich advice ever, but go to office hours! This class was staffed by TEN people this semester, and lots of them had more than one office hour. Theres absolutely no excuse for not going: at least one of the times is going to work for you. The professors wont make you feel dumb, and theyll like you a lot more for going, and sometimes theyll even tell you about cool opportunities on campus in the humanities. They want you to go, so go!
The reading is not all that tough, but the course moves at a very fast pace with one book per week.
This course requires a lot of reading, which may trip you up later down the road if you are unwilling to complete it. Ensure that this course is a priority in relation to the other ones you are taking.
Be prepared to prioritize this class if you take it. It is a lot of reading sometimes especially if you also have midterms, psets, and other classwork going on. It's important to plan out your time and get started on the weekly assignments early.
It is a ton of reading, but is very rewarding. The course does an excellent job at combining engaging readings with cultural experiences such as art museum visits and concerts (at no expense to the student).  The discussion sections are excellent and exciting.  The lectures are disappointing.
I would recommend HUM10 with enthusiasm. It is, admittedly, a lot of work - the readings are intense and command your full attention (skimming or looking up summaries will definitely not do). However, the work is so worth it. The conclusions we reach as a class, as a section, and as individuals are not restricted to the 'literary sphere'; through debates about the nuances of the text, we come to debate morality, faith, normalcy, and the extraordinary. The class encourages introspection, and the setting - fostered by an amazing cast of professors and TFs - is amazing.
If you are a hardcore humanities nerd, you will love this class. The professors are great and you'll be able to have meaningful discussions with peers that are as interested in the material as you are. However, if you're taking the class just for the expos credit and don't like the idea of reading a book a week, I would suggest not taking it. Also approach the class knowing that it's a sprint through the canon; you won't get to go too in-depth on anything, but you'll get exposure to a lot of interesting texts.
The key to the class is simple: read.
It's a hell of a lot of work. If you are willing to do it, it is one of the best courses a freshman can take.
This is one of those "you get out what you put in" courses. It's very easy to fall behind on reading, or not even finish/start certain books because there are no academic repercussions for not reading the texts. But lectures are much more fascinating, section discussions are much more exciting, and the two papers and eventual final exam are much easier if you put in the work and understand the readings.
If you are truly interested in the humanities take this course. It's a big time commitment but you get a lot out of it if you take it seriously.
Take this course, but be prepared to do the readings. You'll get a lot more out of it if you actually read the texts. The class tends to attract/let in people who are pretty highly engaged, so it is a great environment to learn in, and the support system/faculty is really great. Get close with your section! Because it's small and pretty engaged, it's a great opportunity to do so. The lectures are impressive and original at first, but they do get a lot more repetitive--it's the seminar that makes the class worth taking.
It's hard but worth it.
This class will help you understand why, really why, we need to study the humanities, as well as how to read and write insightfully. It will push you to empathize with perspectives and cultures vastly different from yours, and you will come away with a better understanding of the world.
This is an awesome class! If you like literature and talking about literature, definitely give it a try!
Take it!  It is a hard class, but you get a lot out of it.  Great opportunity to interact with very kind and interesting professors.  The other students who take the class are extremely motivated and inspiring to be around.
One of the highlights of the semester, a truly wonderful experience.
This course covers all the classic works to provide a solid basis for any humanities (and many social science) concentrations. The workload is certainly heavy, but it is definitely worth it. By the end of just the first semester, I can already much better appreciate any poetry or literature I read because I can better understand and notice the references made to these old texts on which the foundation for most Western literature is built.
Enjoy the incredible thinking you will be doing. You will expand your mind, contradict yourself, and often come to unsatisfactory conclusions. But that's where the fun begins, and you will soon learn to love the questions themselves. More than anything, you will appreciate the opportunity to witness the most beautiful of what humanity has to offer.
This is both my favorite and least favorite class: so much work, but so, so engaging and rewarding. I really recommend it, but only if you're willing to work really really hard.
This is definitely not an easy class, but so worth it-- reading these books and being guided by these Professors has made me think way more critically about the world that we live in, as well as myself. Definitely start the essays early and go to office hours (both your TF's and your section leaders). Only take this class if you are actually going to do all the reading, because those that don't just hinder the discussion.
This class is definitely challenging but definitely worth it. It's an exceptional opportunity to have a small class with a professor that is incredibly enthusiastic and welcoming. Moreover having lectures from different professors who all look at works from a different lens keeps things interesting! You will learn a lot and be very proud of yourself once after you've realized how many great books you've read, great conversations you've had, long lasting relationships you've established, and great ideas you've had that are still working themselves out in your mind!
It's a tough class, but a great learning experience.
Enjoy the reading, don't get too invested in the writing. You will probably be disappointed.
I felt like we did not learn in depth about these works, and I did not feel like I learned about the humanities in a revolutionary way for me.
This class made me feel like Odysseus but without the victory at the end
If you want to read a book every week and in the process come to intimately understand the major shifts of human thought through recorded history, this is the course for you. If you are a slow reader, poor writer, or generally uninterested in literature, think hard before giving this course a shot.
Be ready to read a lot, and be really sure that you want to take this course. If you have doubts, don't do it.
You will love the books, but you may not have the time to read them. The professors are brilliant, but some lead awfully boring sections. This course gives a macro view that is often lost in literature and which I found incredibly valuable, but it is tremendously hard, so only take this if you truly want to dedicate yourself to it.
Lectures are very engaging and the sections are fun, just be prepared to do a ton of reading.
There is a lot of reading, and sometimes that effort doesn't feel merited during the short, sometimes hectic, section. That being said, these are really great texts (though their cultural lens is small), and they are worth reading and this course gives a lot of material and expert input (by the professors) to enrich the experience.
Hum 10 is an excellent course, which combines a thorough study of western canon with an expository writing course. I find that the western canon aspect of the class to be much more solid than the expos aspect. The instructors and TFs are all fantastic. the lectures are a particular highlight, sometimes taking the form of a performance.
I enjoyed this class immensely.
This is an amazing class. It's heavy on readings but they are definitely worth doing, and you leave with a perspective on all of the works that is like no other. The opportunity to work one on one with professors is invaluable (the teaching team is really incredible). There are two papers over the course of the semester and they're not particularly difficult.My one caveat is that the texts we read are exclusively white and male, and the class is very Western-oriented. It's definitely lacking in diversity, which meant I enjoyed it a lot but also had to turn parts of myself off to do so (which is, of course, painful and unpleasant).
you have to be prepared to do a lot of reading to get the most out of the class
This course is excellent, but it is very difficult.  If you don't come in as an excellent reader and writer, the material will be challenging to say the least.  However, the professors are amazing, and the works covered are must-reads.
Awesome class, great books and professors. 10/10 would recommend.
Skip CS50. Take Hum10. You'll actually learn something, feel smarter, and meet some great people. Even if you are a science person, TAKE IT. Step outside your comfort zone. This is college for Christ's sake.
I would absolutely, thoroughly recommend this course, and believe it's been one of the best intellectual experiences I've had. The professors and TFs are truly outstanding; they are warm, helpful, accomplished, and extremely intelligent, and even if one doesn't take Hum 10, one should definitely search out the Hum 10 professors and take other courses by them. Students in the class bond and build a community. The course will treat you to enthusiastic lectures by outstanding humanities scholars, and to optional events to hear music, watch Shakespeare, or analyze ancient arts. The reading is tough and the papers aren't evaluated lightly, but you'll learn so much about a swath of the humanities and gain a much greater appreciation for the ideas and writings that have helped build and define western civilization. Anyone who can should absolutely take this class.
Hum 10 is a class like no other. If you're interested in any aspect of the humanities, I strongly recommend this class. But be prepared for a LOT of reading. This isn't a class to take passively; you should really push yourself to engage with the reading even when you'd really rather not. The professors are great and give great feedback. It's an amazing experience to be able to work with five (very high-up) professors in your first semester of college--don't waste it.
It's a great introduction to some of the most important texts in the Western Canon, filled with stimulating discussion. However, if you are already experienced with many of the texts on the course, it may not go into very much new territory.
This course is wonderful
This class is what Harvard is all about. The ability to spend a year reading dozens of monumental works of the Western canon under the tutelage of experts in the field and discussing the texts with some of the brightest students in the world is a priceless opportunity that should not be passed up. Combine that with 2 gen ed requirements, the expository writing requirement, AND a concentration requirement in almost any humanities field, and the course holds even more appeal. If you won't read all the books, not only will you have difficulty in the class, but you will also contribute to a less enriching environment for the other students, so save yourself the trouble and don't apply for the course if you won't be able to dedicate enough time per week to read each book.
This class is what you make of it. The works that are read are very interesting and it is great to get exposure to such a breadth of literature, however, the time spent on each work is not very extensive. It is up to the student, in many cases, to fully explore the work just because there is so much in each work to examine. If, however, you make the most of this course, it can be one of the best ones you take during your semester. It was certainly one of my favorites!
The reading is MOSTLY required. The rest can be used to populate a holiday reading list...
If you like to read, like to talk about what you've read, and like to have an intellectual challenge every single week, take it. Don't take it if you don't plan on reading all the books, or think you might not read all the books, because it won't be productive for you. Don't take it if you just want the combined Expos/GenEd requirements. Don't take it if you think you're opinion is always right, and don't take it if you don't plan on opening your mind or changing your opinion based on discussions with others. Take it if you want to read some of the greatest books out there in a setting where you can learn about their background, interpretation, and clever facets with a group. Take it if you like to talk about books. Take it regardless of your background and intentions. I'm probably going to be a science concentrator, but I still took this class because everyone should know more about culture, everyone should learn how to think about how to think, and everyone should learn how to discuss academic and philosophical topics with respect - and this class taught me all of those things.
It will not be an easy course, but it will be extremely rewarding. In order for the class to be rewarding, you have to do all the readings, but it really becomes worth it in the end. The structure of the course also allows you to get to know professors and classmates really well during section.
A lot of reading but well worth it.  Lectures aren't to-die-for, but having seminar with both a professor and teaching fellow is a wonderful experience.  If you have Professor Coleman and/or TF Miles, then consider yourself set.  Be warned that this course attracts the most competitive students, but my seminar relaxed as the semester progressed.
There's a lot of reading, so...if you're a fast reader, BULLY FOR YOU. If not, you're in for a hard time. Either way, it's going to be rewarding, I guarantee. If you didn't study literary canon in high school, you'll walk out of Hum10 singing "A Whole New World" like you're a bonafide Disney prince(ss). If your priorities/potential concentrations lie elsewhere, like Ec10 or CS50, don't take this if you want free time. This is challenging and will probably be one of your "big" courses of the semester.
Take this class to be taught by Harvard's best and brightest professors your freshman fall. Take this class to have personal contact with a professor your freshman fall. Take this class because the books you will read will change the way you perceive the world. Take this class because the conversations you will have with your peers during seminar and beyond will be incredibly stimulating. Take this class to avoid bland Expos 20 courses. Take this class to become a better writer by interacting with some of the best literature ever produced in human history. In the words of Professor Kirakosian, "These books want to speak to us." Join the conversation.
Don't take this course because you want 2 gen eds and your expos requirement and this seems like a well respected and challenging way to fulfill those requirements... Take it because you love reading and the fact that it fulfills three requirements is just a bonus.
This class is quite difficult, and was advertised as such, but I didn't think carefully enough about that warning label when I accepted my spot in the class. I think freshmen should shape their schedule around Hum10's workload, since it deserves a great deal of respect. That being said, I've had wonderfully enlightening moments in this class and am excited to take the spring semester of the course.
If you enjoy serious reading & discussions about literature, TAKE THIS CLASS!  IT'S AMAZE-BALLS!! It's a wonderfully broad exposure to literature and philosophy, and you will learn so much from conversations with your professors, TFs, and peers.  Hum10a is a class that really immerses you in the course content--through field trips, spontaneous discussions with classmates in Annenberg, and office hours with professors.  That said, you will get out what you put in, so be prepared to work hard, read extensively, and think very critically about challenging texts. This class might also be hard to balance if all your other courses are paper classes. But if you're able to put in the time & effort, this class is so worth it!
TAKE THIS COURSE!  It is certainly the best way I could've started my freshman year.  The teachers are phenomenal-- the gems of the humanities departments-- and the students are brilliant.  Don't let the reading list intimidate you!  It has turned out to be very manageable (given some good time management) and more than worth it for the conversations you will have throughout the term.  Be prepared for a startling experience; I came in thinking I had a knack for English but soon realized just how much more I needed to learn to get there.  Take the plunge!
The course is really what you make of it; it's possible to skirt by while only reading a few of the texts thoroughly, but you will get so much out of it if you put in a lot of hours to reading. Do not be deterred, however, if you think the course will be too difficult.
Best choice I made this fall! I was intimidated because I am a science person, but found it incredibly interesting and rewarding (and very doable)
This class is so much fun! I didn't necessarily love every text, but there was nothing that I felt I had wasted time on by reading. It's great to have so many talented professors accessible to you and to hear their takes on each text. That said, I think that you lose a lot if you don't complete the reading for this class, or at least most of it. It's not necessary to read every text in order to complete the assignments and even the final, but part of what makes this experience worthwhile is actually consuming the books independently.
Loved it! Taylor Cowdery's the best!
Do not take this course if you have any other life outside of sitting in a library reading.  I am extremely interested in these works and think that there is an incredibly better way to tackle them.  I felt like I could not actually engage with any of these texts and that it was a waste of time to take this course rather than just reading them on my own.  There wasn't much I got out of this course that made it better than having just done my own reading.   The teaching support is great but it is hard to do this class if you don't have all your time to dedicate to this course.
Your experience will be defined by your section leader. For me, this worked out phenomenally, and I had a great time. That said, the material is very jumpy -- even the lecturer switches week to week, so it's challenging to feel like you're learning anything coherent. It's a great excuse to read a ton of books you might not otherwise get to, however, but be aware that in a more focused course you might get more out of them. If you're not going to do the readings (you can get away with it, but not easily) don't take it. You will get exactly nothing out of it.
It's a great class, but a bit too excessive on the reading which really takes away from the impact of the course.
I would definitely recommend this class to anyone who is willing to do all of the reading and really intellectually engage with the class. If you are unsure of your commitment and don't think you would do all or most of the reading, I would recommend taking a different class, because so much of what you will get out of this class is in the material.
This course is challenging, but engaging. It's an ambitious undertaking: 2500+ years of western intellectual history in one semester. The paper grading is not lenient, and the sections are sure to challenge your assumptions. This class will help you to connect with a deep literary tradition, one that shapes everything about our experience in the modern, western world. In that sense, Hum10 is the essential Harvard course, a must take in your ivy league career.
During the very first lecture for Hum 10a, Professor Greenblatt spoke mystically about the earliest form of artwork-- hand paintings etched in the French Chauvet-Pont-d'Arc Cave.  Our ancestors wanted to create, to transcend the ephemeral through their creations. 

Why?, he asked.

Take this course because you are interested in the Why. Because you are interested in gaining a more nuanced appreciation of art and its centrality to human existence.

Hum 10a not an easy A; there is much reading, writing, and the professors/TFs have high standards. 

Through Hum 10a, Ive engaged with multiple answers to the question of Why?. Through Professor Roiloss lecture on the Symposium, Ive come to appreciate the various Forms; we are all climbing the Ladder of Love, yet occupy different rungs. Through Professor Greenblatts lecture on Hamlet, Ive come to appreciate Shakespeares emphasis on the characters interior; thoughts can supplant plot in a story. Through Professor Simmonss lecture on Descartes, Ive come to appreciate the relationship between the mind and body; is the souls existence contingent upon the physical? Through Professor Menands lecture on Rousseaus Confessions, Ive come to appreciate the vulnerability evident in an autobiography--the vulnerability needed to respect the integrity of nature. Through Professor Claybaughs lecture on Jane Austens use of free indirect discourse, Ive come to appreciate the novels contributions to making the interior accessible to audiences rather than relegated solely to Shakespearean soliloquies.  

As someone who loves politics and literature, I loved this course because the professors accounted for what George Orwell deemed political impulse. Every writer, Ive come to realize, whether intentionally or otherwise, is motivated by desire to push the world in a certain direction, to alter other peoples idea of the kind of society they should strive after. All writing has political purpose. To say that art should not be political is a political statement in itself.

In short, this course made me a much better person. For that reason, I highly recommend it.
Take this course, especially if you haven't read these books (they are fantastic), but if only to have the chance to get to know some amazing scholars.
This was a great gateway humanities course taught by amazing professors. If you are interested in pursuing anything in the humanities in the future, or if you are concentrating in the sciences but want some exposure to the humanities, this is the perfect class for you. The texts are worth reading for life. Lecture was so engaging and interesting. At times section discussion was a bit stilted because of students grandstanding, but nevertheless worth it. If you take this class, the only way you will get the most of it is by actually doing the readings. For those of us who actually did all of the readings, the workload was incredibly high. The course offers numerous resources, and all of the professors hold office hours and lunches after their lectures. Take advantage of these opportunities. The TFs were also awesome resources. Finally, the course offered several free field trips/events outside of the classroom  do them! I could not have asked for a better way to explore the cultural hotspots in Boston during my freshman fall.
Try to read all the books in detail. They all are amazing, and the lectures as well. It is sometimes difficult to finish the books in the busy Harvard schedule, but without reading them, it will be difficult to learn how literature developed over time clearly.
You have to be willing to read early and read a lot. If you are, this class will be fantastic. Being able to be in small section will professors who are rockstars like greenblatt and menand is a once in a lifetime experience. Every college student should read these books. Also, the field trips are very fun.
Hum10 is an incredible course if you have genuine interest in the humanities - either as a concentration or just in general. It takes a lot of time and effort, but can be truly rewarding and inspiring if you are committed. The professors are passionate and really care about your experience - they want you to love the texts each week and therefore really make them come alive in lecture. Harvard seems to have pulled together some of its best to run this class. That said, if you don't put in the effort, this class will likely move too quickly and broadly for you to really appreciate what you're learning. You cover many millenia-- you have to be paying attention to see how it all connects together. Professors are highly accessible outside of class and their office hours definitely had the highest attendance of any I've encountered. My TF (Taylor) was also excellent in making me feel comfortable and really pushing me to think further and more carefully about all my ideas and assumptions. One negative component to this class was a sense of competitiveness-perhaps this is just a general Harvard phenomenon, but in section it often felt like people were just trying to show off for the benefit of the professor and the other students. Section was not the free and thoughtful opportunity it might have been. In general, I would definitely recommend this class if you have a general interest in the humanities, a desire to gain a very broad sense of the Western tradition, and a real commitment to pushing yourself hard each week.
Provides the communicative space to read and talk about the most important texts in the Western tradition. This course should be mandatory. Reading these books makes you a better person.
This class is A LOT of reading. Really too much reading. And it really doesn't make sense to take a Great Books class like this if you are not going to do the reading. You really can't take this class and get a lot of out of it and do the reading if you are taking other time-intensive classes. Also, it can be a bit frustrating since you read a lot, and only have 1 section to discuss a book like the Odyssey. It's a great intro the humanities and the western canon, but unless you are sure you are really interested in spending lots of time reading interesting but challenging works.
Be ready to read a lot and discuss what you read for two classes before moving on.  Definitely a valuable class for anyone who wants to be exposed to some of the most important literature of our culture, but don't expect to get much more than a brief exposure.
This is a class where what you put into it is what you get out of it. If you are prepared to read a book a week, think deeply about complex topics of literature, participate in discussion, and go to professor office hours, then this class is absolutely amazing. I have a deep sense of accomplishment in finishing this class and realizing all that I have read and learned.
If you're planning to enroll in this course, you definitely should love reading and writing.
Be aware that the texts will not be studied in depth, but that the course is more about the idea of studying humanities-- quite literally an intro course. Through this course you may find out whether or not you truly wish to be involved in the humanities at Harvard pretty early on.
This course is an invaluable opportunity to interact with some of Harvard's most distinguished humanities professors, in particular, Professor Menand and Professor Greenblatt, who spearhead the class. Be prepared to read quite a bit, and to be challenged by the material. Elizabeth Phillips, at least, is a wonderful TF who is easy to reach and provides effective feedback on writing. It's important to go into section with the knowledge that the texts you're studying are complicated, and can hardly be absorbed in the week you're given to read them. As such, section is a time to explore your perhaps vague ideas and to get as good an understanding as you can in such short time. Go to as many class excursions as possible!
This class is great if you are hoping to read the classics. You will learn from legends, be challenged in your literary and philosophical analysis and learn to think about works in their cultural/historical context. All wonderful things! Be prepared that this is not an easy gen Ed class. To the contrary, it was the hardest class I had this semester from a workload and writing standpoint. You will think and read and write and be stretched in all those capacities. If that sounds like a noble challenge, charge into it head on. I'm glad I took the course.
A challenging, very fast-paced, in-depth look at the works of the Western cannon, building toward the reading of Joyce's Ulysses for the final paper. Be prepared to spend a lot of time reading and thinking independently about the course's material--with the volume of material covered per week so large, section discussion time will be packed and ultimately insufficient to cover even half of the interesting, important points in any given work! Definitely more for concentrators or lovers of literature than students looking for a low-commitment GedEd. Humanities 10a will require a high input of time and effort, but its returns will be well worth the investment.
READ THE BOOKS. I shirked some of the reading and regretted it. Not because it hurt me in the class (you can get away with it...shhhhh). But because I was wrong to miss the opportunity to absorb all I could about EACH of these books. I would give this class enough weight in your schedule; don't pile up stuff around this and treat this as the easy course you'll wanna dedicate all the time you can to reading these books.
The only way to really get the most out of this class is to read the books, which is hard to do because you only have a week per work and if you have a heavy schedule it can be overwhelming.
Take the class, but don't necessarily expect to do well.
Hum 10a with Professor Greenblatt was a wild ride.

Professor Greenblatt and Taylor were the most caring, warm, accessible, friendly, kind teachers a student could ask for. Add brilliant to that list and you've got a winning combination. They guided section every week deftly and diligently, often relating the week's text to some broad, lofty theme in literature (or life) that would leave me staggered by the implications. (Do note that this is by necessity and design a survey course, and so it focuses far more on the forest than the trees.) This was the case even when I was not fond of the readings or hadn't done them in much depth: after reading Rousseau, which I was not particularly fond of, we had an eye-opening discussion of subjectivity/objectivity within literature, and after reading Ulysses, which I definitely for sure read every single word of in the two weeks we were allotted, we talked about the representation of consciousness within literature. Both fascinating topics which had me utterly rapt. And of course I got even more out of section when I did justice to the readings, which I'd obviously recommend as they're all lynchpins of the Western canon.

Hum 10a also fosters a great community. I got to know everyone in my section decently well this semester, and a couple of them are now my very close friends. Everyone in section was very bright and eager and curious, which just made for an excellent group. I don't know whether it's the selective nature of the course (which I'm not particularly fond of, but I suppose it's necessary given that professors run the sections) or the self-selecting nature of the students, but Greenblatt section had a wonderful dynamic going on that I'll sorely miss.

There are also some ancillary aspects of the course that are super awesome. Prof Greenblatt and Taylor were super accessible, and I had a bunch of enlightening conversations, concerning literature, life, and their many intersections, with them outside of class. The Hum 10a staff also set up a bunch of very nice events (e.g. visits to the MFA/Houghton library, a performance of Lear, etc.) for students that give a nice glimpse of what it means to live the humanistic life.

tl;dr Hum 10a was exhilarating. Take it.
This is an amazing class. Take advantage of it and keep up with the readings, because section is so rewarding and I wish I had kept up better so I could have gotten even more out of the discussions. Lectures are also engaging and interesting.
While the required reading is overwhelming at times, it is definitely worth it as I felt I got the most out of the weeks where I read most thoroughly. It makes lecture and discussion all the more valuable when you come in with a foundational understanding of the work that can be built on. There is no doubt that this course takes time, but you will learn so much if you put the time in and commit to the works!
This class is epic in every sense of the word. You will not regret taking it.
This class requires a familiarity with many works of literature and an ability to comfortably write about and discuss literature. It is not an introductory level humanities class. Also the section is supposed to be the highlight of the class but Professor Roilos' section is awful and will ruin the class.
If you like or even tolerate reading, take this class!
Be prepared to do a lot of reading, but it will definitely change your perspective of narration and literature in the Western Canon.
It is incredible. If you have the chance to take it, definitely do. It is true that it only offers voices from a piece of the Western literary tradition, but that restriction only means that it's essential to find courses like it that explore other pieces of other traditions. The meaning in these works is very real, from a literary standpoint and from a human standpoint.
This class is really hard but worth it if you put the work in. I stopped being able to do all of the reading towards the end, so it became an exercise in reading and writing about summaries, and sections were hard to participate in.
Taking this course was the best academic choice I made my first semester, and I cannot wait to continue on to Humanities 10b. Not only are the professors involved insightful and engaging, but they are excited to interact with the students. There are ample opportunities, through lunches, office hours, and field trips, to get to know those teaching and those taking the course. The course materials, carefully chosen, are truly essential works. They are excellent representatives of the western literary tradition. The variety in time period, culture, and perspective of the works, I think, gives students the foundation for a true literary education.
What will you do with your life? Does anyone care? Do you want to know? Then join the conversation. People have struggled with the same ideas you have since they have started writing. True, reading may be difficult, but with the help of multiple professors and a great section led by one of them, the minimum you can achieve in this course is more than enough to help you realize that you are not alone in the struggle of living. If you're hesitating, dare to take up the challenge and strive to seek for truth  don't worry, it has a happy ending!
This course was the highlight of my first semester. The roster of professors is superb; ANY chance you can find to get to know them is a chance you need to take, and the TFs (Taylor in particular) are not only great about facilitating section discussion and working with you for feedback on your assignments but about holding office hours to talk about everything from what you're reading that week to their experience with a given department or program. The support system is unreal.
This course was by far the best of my freshman fall.  It was consistently interesting and engaging, and truly was the kind of course Harvard likes to flaunt--working with and learning from a true faculty member with a serious pedigree.  I would recommend to anyone, regardless of interests.  This seems like it could be a flagship course for the University--the humanities' response to CS50.
It's tough. But it's definitely worthwhile.
Be aware that it's a lot of reading and the grading is not fair.
If you are at all interested in literature, books, or culture in general, take this course.  This course was largely responsible for me switching from a STEM trajectory to a Humanities concentration, and I know I am not alone in that.  The professors are all experts in the texts taught, offer unique persepctives on them, and sections are exemplary of what a good section should be like:  engaging, supplementary to lecture material without tedious review, and generally fun.  Take this course, because it does what CS50 did for computer science, but with the humanities -- and does so much more effectively.
Know it's a lot of reading, but the lectures and sections are SO GOOD
I would recommend this class with enthusiasm to those willing to really put in the hours to read and think about one substantial work a week. If you are willing to put in this effort, the professors and texts are worth it!
You will get the most out of this class if you dedicate yourself to the readings, if you participate in section, and if you attend the out of class events.
Lectures are amazing, as is the access in section to each of the professors.  Essays are hard, as well as the huge task of keeping up with the reading every week.
This class is a great way to read amazing literary works that might be difficult to find time to read otherwise. Although it was difficult to keep up at times, I am incredibly pleased with all that I've accomplished over one semester.
This course will involve a significant amount of work to adequately comprehend the material.  Be prepared to spend quite a lot of time devoted to that.
PLEASE READ: I came to Harvard as a definite English major, and I had read over 500 books.  However, this class absolutely knocked the life out of me.  We were literally expected to read a lengthy and difficult book and write a response paper every week, plus write three long papers.  While a noble goal, this was completely overwhelming.  Freshman fall is incredibly stressful, and this class sucked away all of my already-nonexistent free time.  I never once used SparkNotes in high school, and LITERALLY EVERY SINGLE STUDENT survived on SparkNotes for this class.  However, this could be awesome if you have the time to actually read the books and your other classes are super easy!
The Professors are great!
Not worth it. This class is as mechanical and bland as any introductory science/math/social science lecture class. If you want to study these works, take seminars in their respective departments. The course moves so extremely fast that you barely have time to scratch the surface (and I mean this quite seriously) before you are whisked away to another monumental work that you will not get anything out of. If you are not a freshman, be warned. This class is very much geared toward first years.
Incredible lectures, office hours- take advantage of office hours and lunches.
This class is a personalized introduction to the field of humanities. It's a chance to get feedback on your own skills and potential within several disciplines. You might think you know what you want to study, but that study probably takes a different form at a higher level than what you're used to, and this class is here to introduce you to those differences.
This class focuses on background and context of the works in lectures.  It is an intro course, so you will read a lot and not get a chance to learn too much about any text.  I personally like more literary analysis and discussion of the text itself, so got bored with the huge focus on context and background of the works.  I wanted to talk about the works themselves!  The paper topics were so broad that I felt I never got to dig in and find something I loved to write about.  Overall, I wish I would have taken a more intense english class.  This class is absolutely challenging, but not the kind of challenging I wanted it to be.  It just wasn't really for me.
Take this course if you want to learn from some of the strongest professors at the college and read the best texts Western tradition has to offer. However, realize that the course is not perfect. Often the reading load is too much and you may begin to find, as I did, that you don't need to do all the reading to do well in section. When it comes time to write papers, you may begin to see that the obscurity of an argument is regarded more highly than its strength. I am not going to take Hum10b, but I'm really glad I took Hum10a.
It's tough but it is also fun. It will teach you how to write coherent essays. It is also one of the few opportunities you will have as a freshman to be in a small section with a professor (and the Hum10a Professors are all leaders in their fields).
Take this class. It's definitely a lot of reading, but you'll form a certain bond with the people in your section because you've struggled through the same books. Aside from the people in your section, the amazing professors definitely make the course. They generate so much enthusiasm for the texts and are so accessible to talk with you about your reactions to the book or anything else. I loved my section because my professor let us determine what elements of the book we wanted to talk about, and he would ask guiding questions to help us make connections between them. We also wrote weekly responses online where we'd respond to both the book and to each other. The section TF would provide really in-depth feedback to these responses which really helped improve my writing when it came down to completing the essays. Coming from a non-humanities concentrator, I thought the course was amazing and helped me become a better reader and writer. If you don't resist what all this course has to offer but jump in with both feet, the readings, responses and section discussions will become the highlight of your week.
It is a ton of reading!!! That needs to be said up front. It will take you a long time to read and absorb everything that this course throws at you. However, it is an extremely rewarding experience that you will learn a lot from. The intimate interaction with tenured faculty in the humanities is an unparalleled opportunity.
The reading is manageable and the faculty is great.  Fantastic course for freshman who admire the common core at other schools.
The more time you can spend reading these works and thinking on them, the better. I imagine this is the kind of class it would be nice to take with a friend, with whom one could continue to talk about the ideas outside a limited section time. Lectures are wonderful, and section is helpful for providing a bit more of a foothold, but I'm not leaving with a feeling of noteworthy familiarity with any of the works. The course really begins to come together in the last weeks, and the ultimate lecture, in which professors answered student questions, was moving, and a powerful reminder of why I had taken the course and chosen to study humanities.
The best class here!
