The whole sequence of The Humanities Colloqium was incredibly rewarding. It may seem daunting to have to read a classic a week, and honestly I did not keep up a lot of the time. But even reading some of the work and reading summaries of the rest was enough because the discussion in section is invaluable and offers a very different reading experience than reading these works on your own. Most of the professors are amazing.
What you put into it is what you get out of it. It is very heavy reading that is rewarding if you put in the time.
If you can actually set aside time for all the readings, this course will be an immensely rewarding experience.
Since Greenblatt and Menand won't be teaching it next year, make sure to check out the professors who are. This course was as amazing as it was because of Greenblatt and Menand.
This class is the bomb.  This is what Harvard's about.  Do it.
Hum10b is amazing, due in large part to the incredible line-up of professors teaching the course - Professor Menand, Professor Greenblatt, and Professor Dench, to name a few, and also the cultural breadth and temporal depth of the texts in the syllabus. This is an especially great course for freshmen/sophomores who know they are interested in the humanities but are not sure yet in which discipline they'd like to concentrate, because it exposes you to literary, philosophical, and historical ways of thinking about and understanding various foundational texts of the Western tradition. Even if you are a junior/senior who may/may not be looking to fulfill a Gen Ed, take it! It is an incredibly enlightening and efficient course, with only one lecture and one section a week, the course covers an impressive array of literature, without making it fee like you rushed through them too superficially. 10/10 would recommend.
I had a good experience in this course personally, however, I would not recommend it for everyone. There is a lot of reading, and to get the most out of the course you really need to do it all. The works covered are truly literary masterpieces and you will leave the course having covered some of the greatest works in the western tradition. I found some of the lectures a bit dumbed down (as GenEds sometimes are), which was often frustrating. Honestly, any opportunity to hear professor Menand lecture is worth it to me though - take it if only to have him as a professor before you graduate!
The ability to interact with such excellent professors in a small section while also being able to see a diverse selection of strong lecturers discussing their fields of expertise was a unique opportunity of which I'm glad I took advantage.
Having the chance to learn from such a great group of professors has been a wonderful experience. Not only do they seem to have fun teaching the course, but the fact that professors run sections makes it all the more interesting! There is a lot of reading, but the lack of a lot of other work makes it more manageable, and the papers aren't too strenuous (and they're short!). This was definitely a low-stress way to explore some of the "classic" texts so often referenced in our culture.
Take this class if you love reading and writing and want to get a firm basis in the humanities to proceed forwards in one of those departments. Or take it if you want a not too difficult taste of what a humanities class at Harvard is like.
If interested in english or history, this is the class for you.
Your grade is based on three essays which by themselves are not particularly special.  What makes the class is weekly interaction with a spectacular professor.
It's a lot of readingbut it's all so worth it. Having a professor (and almost always an impressive name, a leader in their field, or one of the smartest professors at Harvard) lead section is incredible. I think it's really especially great to take this class as a freshmannot because it's easy, but because it's going to force you to talk in class early on and take risks more generally.
Great readings, lectures, and sections. Field trips are exciting. You can tell they put a lot of effort into making this class! A lot of the time in lecture I felt like I was hearing a talk outside of class, rather than in a lecture for class.However, you can do as much or as little work as you would like in this class, because it is so fast-paced. It is a self-selecting group of students, and there really is no point in taking this class if you are not going to do the readings. It is almost like a crash course in the humanities, which can be difficult to keep up with if you do not have an extensive background (I did not). Sometimes I felt like the ideas I didn't understand or wanted to explore in the readings were not dealt with enough, even though sections were pretty flexible.
This class is transformative. Your ideas about yourself and the world will change tremendously as you absorb the ideas of the professors and your classmates. You will also begin to understand the humanities as an expanse of artistry and to feel fascination the links and dimensions within this expanse.
This course brings together five professors to lecture about literature within their areas of expertise.  If you practice due diligence with reading the assigned books every week, and take advantage of office hours, your effort will be rewarded in spades.  The reading is substantial, but worthwhile, so do not feel deterred by it.  The extracurricular trips and workshops function to make the course feel like a holistic experience.  Particularly if you are interested in the humanities and want to gain more exposure to the field, this course is for you.
If you are very interested in the syllabus, and dedicated to doing all of the readings, then this course is absolutely worth it. The teaching is fantastic, and it is extremely well resourced. However, it is easy to not do a lot of the reading and just sort of skate by if you aren't passionate about it, and that can make it feel like you aren't getting too much out of the course.
What you get out of this class is proportional to the amount of work you put in. There is a lot of reading, a lot of good readings, but they are long. I am the type of reader who likes to take their time digesting and contemplating the material. However, I did not get to do this because I had a lot of commitments and other difficult courses. Be prepared to put in a lot of time - plan accordingly. If you don't, you will not enjoy the class.
This class--and especially its section component--should be proudly held up by the College's gen-ed program as a flagship course of the humanities at Harvard.  It's easy to get caught up in dealing with Hum10 as just another class, but it strikes you when you think about what something as simple as section is like: around a table with a revered, uber-qualified faculty member dissecting seminal works of literature.  It's obvious every one of them cares and that will surely rub off on the students too.
You read good books and encounter super smart folks. Be aware that it's a class largely for freshmen (so if you're a junior or senior, you might want to scream at your section-mates to shut up every now and then). But overall, take it!
This class has a fantastic reading list, brilliant profs and a really strong structure. It's not difficult, but it is intensely time consuming.
I didn't find it necessary to do all of the reading, although your experience in the class is almost entirely based on whether or not you keep up with most of the texts. A few can be skimmed, but most (Brothers Karamazov, To the Lighthouse) deserve to be read cover to cover. How much you do this determines how much you will get out of this class.
Vital class with vital professors. Better books and environment in 10a.
Epic! I loved it.
Lots of reading, but well worth it!
Really wonderful for freshman who want to test out a bunch of different facets of the humanities. not easy, not to be taken lightly.
Humanities 10 is the most time-economic and enjoyable way to dominate in smart-casual dinner conversation.
I learned so much from this course, and the professors and TFs are amazing! Certain weeks have long or fairly dry readings, but overall, the course is interesting and fun! Aside from readings, the writing assignments are very reasonable: one short assignment a weeks and three total essays. The faculty is very available for help, and I wish I'd taken better advantage of that.
This is a difficult class with high expectations and a very fast pace. You probably won't finish all the readings. In fact, you probably shouldn't finish all the readings. That would take a lot of time. Despite this, the faculty are actually the best and most knowledgeable in these fields and that is very apparent from the quality of lectures and seminar (sometimes they make it a little too apparent). The works covered are among the most essential to western literature and you interact with them quite deeply. This is a class that is type 2 fun: you will struggle through it, but afterwards be glad you took it, because it is worth it and will make you a better writer. The class is structured in such a way that you get plenty of feedback and opportunities to discuss with professors and TFs about comments on essays, the readings, or anything else.
Hum10 might seem like an overwhelming amount of reading and a bit intimidating but I believe that it is absolutely worth all of the work. Hum10 was a defining feature of my first year at Harvard and played a large role in shaping the extremely positive experience that I have had so far. While it might be at times frustrating to not have more time to discuss certain readings because the course is so fast-paced, Hum10 did a great job of introducing me to a broader range of works that I might have not otherwise been exposed. While difficult at times, trying one's best to complete all the readings and participate in the cool opportunities that Hum10 provides (office hours, field trips, Joyce term etc.) makes a big difference! The professors and TFs for this class are incredible, extremely accessible, and very much invested in helping students take away as much as possible from the class. I have met some of my best friends through the bonding experience that is Hum10 and believe that this course has made me such an improved reader, writer, and thinker. Hum10 has been, by far, my favorite course at Harvard and one of the best decisions I made my freshman year.
It is a very comprehensive source of the "Great Books" of the Western world. It is greatly strengthened by its inclusion of texts from around the world (from Latin America in the fall and from East Asia in the spring). Writing labs provide very rigorous training, and I think my writing and research skills improved dramatically as a result of Abbie and Ilana's feedback. Lectures were always fascinating and the passion of the various professors for the works we were studying was always evident. The course is certainly attempting to move away from Eurocentrism through the fascinating lectures of Professors Carrasco and McCormick, but I think it is a big problem how it completely overlooks the Islamic world/Islamic civilizations/the religion itself. Islam has played such a central role not only in the Middle East/South Asia/Central Asia/North Africa/Spain, but it is also the source of a lot of the knowledge that we have nowadays about ancient Greek philosophy, and I don't think this should be overlooked. It would be great if a professor from the NELC department could be added to the course!
Hum10 is like YouTube. It makes you laugh, makes you cry, and it will take up nearly all of your waking hours. This class has amazing TFs and Professors, just the workload is nuts. The reading is either 500 pages a week (Iliad) or feels like 500 pages (Nietzsche). It a fun social group as well.
There were so many moments I had while sitting in lecture or section in which I thought: This. This is what I always dreamt Harvard would be. Brilliant minds of professors bursting forth before you full of ideas and inviting you to craft your own. You become intimate with Joyce and Homer and Achilles and experience the works both as yourself and also in the context of that work via analyzing artwork from the appropriate era in the Art Museum. Through this class, and funded by this class, I ventured into Boston to watch ballets and operas. If you get in, take this class!
Exactly what it says on the tin. A sweeping survey course of the Western canon - don't expect to get particularly in depth in your study of any of the works, but at the same time, don't underestimate the value of being able to discuss Homer alongside Joyce.
This is a fantastic course and you should definitely not let the opportunity slip if you are interested in at least one of the humanities. Might be less useful if you consider yourself an expert, but still a great exposure to different lines of thinking. Approach this course with an open mind and be prepared to work hard on developing the essay style that's needed to excel in this course.
Take it!!!!
This class was amazing!! I learned SO much about literature and had amazing conversations about the texts that we read in section! Everything about this class is great, from lecture to section to writing lab. I'd highly recommend this class!!!
Hum10 is a crazy and incredible class. You are reading basically a book a week for two straight semesters, along with essays and preparation for section. It's a huge time commitment, but it's absolutely worth it. The professors and TFs are absolutely the best you could possibly hope for, and they're all so available and committed to helping you dig deeper into the material. There's also definitely a student community built around the class. When you spend so much time working through the same materials and struggling (in the best way) through the assignments, you make really strong connections with people from such a wide variety of fields and interests. This course also definitely draws some of the most artistically talented students in the class, so the final assignment with the creative component was a great way to see everyone's artistic skills (which I appreciated even more because I don't have any).
A lot of reading, esp. in conjunction with the essays. Otherwise, an interesting course. You don't really get any depth, though.
Overall, Hum10 has many, many faults. This class is very difficult. It is easy to be left behind, and to be honest, the course moves too quickly for the average student to do all the reading. Of course, many students do, which leaves you even further behind. You will never get a deep understanding of a text. Instead, you will get a shallow understanding of many texts, but enough of an understanding that you will be able to tie things together across the literary tradition, regardless of era or genre.However, there are some truly incredible aspects as well. The Professors are outstanding. Some of them are among the most famous at Harvard, but they are still devoted and talented teachers, which isn't always the case. In addition, I think that Hum10 gives more access to Professors than any other Freshman class. To have a Prof teach a section is extraordinarily rare. All the teachers are very available and interested in your writing, ideas, and lives.In all, Hum10 will leave you with drastically improved writing, great relationships with esteemed faculty, and an understanding, albeit limited, of the seminal texts of the Western Canon - but you'll go through hell to get there.
If you want to encounter many of the significant works in world literature (especially Western), take Hum 10! It is unlikely you will find another course as full of so many amazing people, whether teaching staff/faculty or students. However, be prepared to do a lot of reading and to not necessarily engage as deeply with each one as you might wish to.
No better class for freshmen. I'm not even sure any other college has a class like this where you have support not only from incredible TFs but some of the best professors. There's too much opportunity to learn, and it's so much better than Expos. Even if you don't want to concentrate in the humanities, you should still take this class if only b/c there's nothing else like it.
This course will change your life and this course will change the way you experience your freshman year.
Absolutely take this over Expos. While I think the course was certainly not perfect  I think lectures were sometimes very abstract and not super applicable and seminar discussions were not amazing simply because people couldn't do all the reading  it is undoubtedly better than everything I have heard about expos. That said - and this should go without saying - you should only take this class if you ENJOY READING  many kids complained about doing the reading and didn't do most of it, which is possible to do, but if you do that then there is no point in taking this class over expos. Hum 10 lets you read incredible texts and discuss them with some of the top scholars in the fields, but you have to want to do that. If you do, and you put time into the reading, you'll get a lot out of the course.
Hum10 is an intense course with a lot of extreme pros and cons.PRO: The community is really strong. I met a lot of awesome fellow students, and we were also really lucky to be able to learn from and with amazing professors. (Lecture was one of the highlights of my week!) The broad scope of subject matter can be useful for students who know they're interested in the humanities to figure out what their specific interests are. And there are cool field trips. And definitely go to Widener office hours; it's a lot more chill than section (it's just people sitting around in the evening talking about the book, and Prof Harris is really nice!). And just in general the course will force you to read a bunch of interesting and influential books, and you'll learn about texts and how they work and what it means for people to look deeply at texts (I'm not talking high school English!), and how an argument you make about a text actually can be right or wrong, and why we bother studying these things at all.CON: There's a lot of reading in a short amount of time. Most people didn't do all the reading every week, and even if we did READ it never felt like there was time to UNDERSTAND what we read. It sometimes felt like there was no point in it because we were just going to zoom on to another book the next week. I know that's built into the course and hard to change, but it detracted from my enjoyment of the texts.
This course will push you in a good way. You don't have to read all the books (that would honestly be unreasonable) but you need a pretty good grasp on 2/3 of them. It's a great opportunity to get close with really really cool professors; the TFs are all very helpful and improved my writing a lot; lectures are always interesting. It's a HUGELY better class than Expos and will expose you to literature, philosophy, and history so you can learn which humanities disciplines help you the most. Also a very social class and will make you feel like you know a lot of other freshmen closely.
But drop out if you don't like your section professor!
I would tell future students that if they are planning on taking this course they should make sure they have time to read the books because the discussions are very interactive and instructors can tell when you haven't read the book.
Hum10 is not as difficult as people make it out to be. It's actually quite a manageable class. Hum10b's curriculum is not as engaging as Hum10a's (at least in my opinion) as many more of the texts are historical or philosophical and less literary. The second half of the course definitely has a different feel, although it is especially rewarding to read works like Ulysses and write extensive papers on them. The writing component this semester is smaller (two essays instead of three) but it felt like just as much work as last semester. Overall, Hum10b is probably worth your time. It's satisfying to complete the Hum10 circle, not to mention you only get expos credit if you take both semesters.
This course, while demanding relative to other first-year courses, is worth your time. The writing lab is a unique experience that couples general writing skill development with analysis of crucial literature. The professors teaching this course are some of the foremost experts in interpreting these texts and will impart key insights not otherwise found on online descriptions or peer discussions.
You will definitely get more out of this course the more you put in. Each lecture left me amazed, and I usually enjoyed section-- the more you read and interact with the texts, the more fulfilling and satisfying class hours will feel. I loved the reading/discussion part, but felt like there wasn't too much instruction with writing lab second semester for some reason. I feel like while my thinking has improved, my writing skills haven't improved to the same extent. That's something to think about when deciding whether to take this for the full year, or just do Expos. However, if you want an awesome introduction to some of the world's great/foundational texts, and you want to listen to amazing faculty each week, take this course!
This course was hands down the most frustrating and rewarding class I've taken at Harvard. It's hard. Really hard. And a lot is expected of you. There were times when I wanted to curse the humanities and times when I wanted to kiss them. Faculty and TF's are great. You meet a ton of fascinating people as crazy as you are for getting into Hum10. It's sort of like a cultish family once you're in, though. If you do decide to opt in, fair warning: the reading is demanding and the writing is extremely challenging, but in the end, the class has made me an immensely better reader, writer, and thinker. Don't take it if you're not willing to do the work. If you are willing, endure! It's hard. But it's worth it.
Humanities 10 was a great overview of the humanities and was one of the most inspiring and engaging classes of my freshman year. There was significant effort placed into the selection of the works and the lecture and section discussions, which made for a smooth and exciting journey through cornerstone works in literary/philosophical history. The amazing discussions in the class frequently led to many personal conversations on how characters or philosophies encountered in the class applied to our perspectives on seeing and handling the world. Both the students taking the class and the professors are amazing and interesting to engage, from all backgrounds and interests. I would highly recommend Hum 10 for students of all concentrations, especially as it satisfies 2 Gen Eds and the Expos requirement!
This is a wonderful class with wonderful professors and TFs. The lectures are great, and being able to discuss your ideas with others is a great way of learning more. I'd strongly recommend taking this.
really really consider whether you can (/will) do all the reading. you probably won't get much out of it if you don't.
Take HUM10 to get a little taste of all the humanities fields that the course staff covers. If you are, like me, deeply interested in a rigorous liberal arts education, this is the course to take. It's also excellent if you're thinking about the humanities but are not sure which department specifically. It'll also knock your writing skills out of the park because of the high standards that this course expects.
Take this class because it is a way better version of Expos. You will actually have the time and feedback to really learn how to write instead of cramming it into a semester and the TFs are amazing. Section and lecture can get monotonous over time but it isn't really stressful at all because you aren't really evaluated on your knowledge of the readings.
Get ready to really gain exposure to some of the great works which have influenced art and culture in our society today. You'll make a lot of good friends in this course. The community is tight. BUT. ONLY TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU ENJOY READING AND WRITING. A LOT. If you are only thinking about Hum10 to fulfill your Expos requirement, you are here for the wrong reasons. If you only want to take this because you want to get two gen-eds out of the way, you are here for the wrong reasons. Take this course because you want to become a more cultured person and learn about the core works that have shaped society. Be warned, though, the workload can be incredibly tough at times, but course staff are accommodating.
Take this class if you love literature. Take this class if you love learning period. Of course, everyone will tell you it's a lot of work, but take my word that it will be one of your most rewarding endeavors of freshman year. The reading may look impossible but it's not because the amount of improvement you will see in your writing and analytical skill will also seem unbelievable by the end of the year! As long as you have an open mind, a will to learn and engage, you will find a community of bright amazing people and teachers to learn with. This class is not for the faint-hearted but you wouldn't be looking at it if you didn't want a class to expand your mind.
Hum10 is an amazing, wonderful, fanstastic experience and style of living your freshman year.
This class is life changing. Take it if you have the chance.
There is no doubt that Hum 10 is an excellent course, but it is only an excellent course for students who are fully invested in it and who are fully interested in it. If you are a Gov concentrator who enjoys literature, but does not love it, I would not recommend this course. If you are a person for which Hum 10 will not be primary, attention-receiving class, I would not recommend taking this course. It's not merely an elective. It's a huge part of your time, and if you're not careful and end up taking it, even though you're not that into literature, it can consume your time and hurt your grades.
Do not expect to bask in the full glory of these texts. The unofficial name of this course is "extreme reading". This course will  leave you feeling dissatisfied in the short term if you do not get through most of the readings. Devote a regular time each week to reading to get in some form of rhythm and start the reading as early as you can. If you can read some of the texts before the beginning of term that will take some of the pressure away from what can be a high-stress course. Both the strength and weakness of the course is that it leaves you to teach yourself a lot of the time-you have the intellectual freedom to respond to a text of your choice in the way that you want, but also you have to set a side a heap of time to do the rereading and background research necessary to write an essay you can be proud of. I had never read most of these texts before and am glad to have been given some grounding in them so I can return to them and read them more slowly and reflect more deeply upon them in future. Long-term, this course will really pay-off as I re-encounter many of the same authors in my humanities classes or can draw comparison to their timeless ideas.
You have to take this class knowing that if you actually do the reading (which you should) it's basically going to become your extra-curricular. It's an amazing opportunity to get to know great professors and read your way through western canon. It's a special class so either appreciate it or don't suffer through it. They grade more harshly than other English classes, even upper level classes I've heard. You can't take this class caring about your grade. I've noticed that (like every class, I suppose) the people who really really care about the material and enjoy it and have a lot to say are the ones that do the best.
Be ready to dedicate a significant amount of time to the readings! Do not take this course with other time-consuming classes; for example, I took Math 21a and Humanities 10a during the first semester and it was an extremely difficult time for me.
If you're fine with long readings each week (and you commit yourself to not skim) you will enjoy Hum 10 immensely. Each professor is brilliant in their own way, and the dialogue that takes place in this course is astonishingly deep. For those willing to take advantage of the course to the fullest - reading the books, going to office hours, engaging in seminar, etc. - this will be the best course you take freshman year. And the course is always evolving, so I'm sure it will be even better next year. If you have the chance to take Hum 10 (and can afford it - the books aren't cheap), go for it, even if you have no plans to continue with the humanities (like me). I promise you will not regret it. This is one of those courses that you treasure in your heart for a long time to come. A sublime experience.
It requires you to read long, difficult texts within a short period of time, with the ability to digest and discuss them skillfully, but the effort and process are totally worth the gain in insight! Professors are willing to answer questions and are mostly accessible. Course also fosters camaraderie among students.
In the crucible that is Hum10 greatness is forged.
Despite the heavy amount of reading, Hum10b is definitely worth it just like Hum10a. The professors are some of the foremost experts on the books and the questions that they pose in lecture are extremely valid and interesting. They are also quite approachable and willing to answer any questions. The books themselves are intertwined and in discussion there is a focus on exploring this, which made the course that much more rich and complex. Make sure you are  observant and determined in your reading, other wise you will not get much out of the course.
Make sure you only take this class if you have the bandwidth to make it your focus. No, you don't have enough time to do the class justice and also take something else that requires a substantial amount of mental energy. If you give the class enough of your time, it really really pays off. The texts have so much to offer, and if you take the time to go to office hours and read the texts closely and spend time working with the TFs on improving your writing, it is an extremely fulfilling course.
Past Q responses have said it's inferior to Hum10a. I disagree - it is, however, different. Felt more analytical, and 3 weeks of Joyce inevitably sets a particular tone.
While I think this is a great course and would recommend anyone going into a humanities concentration to take it, I think if you're at all skeptical about this course you should probably steer away from it because it is A LOT more work than expos and the grading is much harder as well.
This class is without a doubt worth all of the work you have to put into it. By far Hum10 helped me grow the most out of all my classes freshman year. Definitely do the readings- it is a lot, but you get much more out of the course when you do. Also go to office hours with professors to discuss works and with TFs to discuss your essays
Hum10 is one of the most unique and amazing experiences you can have at Harvard. Though the class is difficult, and there is a lot of reading, the group of professors that teach the class is absolutely remarkable. They all know so much about their given fields, and are simultaneously willing to commit huge amounts of time to students. The course brings something new each week, and no two lectures are the same. On top of that, the course staff offers students regular cultural excursions into and around Boston, everything from museum visits to historical tours to opera, absolutely free! Most important though, in my opinion, is the amazing group of classmates you will meet while taking this class--Hum10 draws some of the most interesting and friendly students from across the freshman class. If you have the chance to take this class, please go for it. You will be challenged, but you will grow so much.
This course is a great, well-structure and thought out introduction to the Humanities and ideal for students who are unsure which field to pursue, but will likely leave those who prefer a more in-depth treatment of the material wanting.
Any potential that Hum10 holds is destroyed by its abysmal execution and a few members of the teaching staff. The instructors that ruin Hum10 are the usual suspects, i.e., the same people responsible for the decline of the west's confidence in itself and in its canon. If your hot take on every author from Plato to Rousseau is that we have to dig through a thick fog of patriarchal biases and western ethnocentrism to even approach something vaguely interesting which is never the pursuit of truth (which doesn't exist anyway), but rather is something more akin to a literary archaeological dig to unearth the historical factors and personal pathologies that led an author to produce his work. This view of literature is notI don't thinkubiquitous among the teaching staff, or anywhere close to it. But only a few people, it seems, are forthrightly proud or even very interested in the ideas of the authors that we read. Even in small doses, this view of literature (which you can learn more about by reading some op-eds on the state of the humanities in higher ed) is toxic, especially when that ideology makes it into the structure of the course. If you are, like I was, hoping to engage on a macro-scale with some of the most important ideas and most beautiful works of art the west has produced, you can do that on your own. But also strap in and prepare to write a twelve page research paper on a single tiny detail from a sentence of Ulysses. If, for instance, the state Dublin fowl market in 1904 is less interesting to you than discussing the effects of Joyce's prose on the reader or the ideas it advocates, prepare to have your thesis crossed out and branded as too broad. The assignments for this class were inevitably boring and made me like literature less. As someone who likes literature and ideas a lot, this was quite a feat. It might be true that I am overstating the case, and that I learned a lot of valuable things from hum10, which I did, especially from lectures and seminars. The paradox of hum10 is that it takes itself more seriously than the authors it studies. The end of the year final examination, which was a take-home exam available for an eight-hour interval, amounted to an eight hour writing examination, as surely everyone in charge of the course knew it would. Hum10 is destroyed by both its administration and the anti-intellectual attitude carried by a couple of the members of its staff. This is not the fault of Profs. Menand or Greenblattespecially Greenblatt, whose love of Shakespeare and every other author is refreshing and contagious.
You don't get to spend nearly enough times on the important works and a lot of the books chosen were not to my liking. The lectures are super hit or miss and the books chosen oftentimes seem disjointed.
This class expects a lot from you as a student. The readings are borderline ridiculous in length and there are high expectations for the writing that you do in this class. That being said, this course is a gem. The staff is incredible and are all passionate about the material and committed to their work in this class. This course has been the best choice I could have made as a Freshman interested in reading and writing. It is a wonderful introduction to the humanities at Harvard and many of the teaching staff do not teach undergrads again until they are Juniors or Seniors. Take this class if you are passionate about reading and writing and willing to put in the work required of you.
Biggest piece of advice: Go to your professor's office hours. This made a huge difference between my first semester (where I didn't go) and my second semester (where I went thrice). Simply meeting Professor Whittington one-on-one made me fall in deeper love with the humanities. If I end up concentrating in the humanities, it would be because of the few conversations I had with Professor Whittington. So, go meet your professor because you never know what you'll get out of those conversations!
For those interested in the humanities (whether interested in concentrating in it, or just recreationally interested) this is a great introduction to the humanities at Harvard. it's essentially a survey course of great works, and while the goal may be to provide a strong foundation for future study through exposure to all these works, it's impossible to study so broadly and also deeply. It is not realistic to expect that students get the full humanities foundation proposed in this course, but it is invaluable exposure to a wide range of works that is hard to come by elsewhere. Additionally, if you're interested in the works listed on the syllabus and prepared to read a significant amount, I personally recommend taking this class as opposed to taking a chance on an Expos section that you may or may not be interested in. I had positive experiences in both section and writing lab, so this was overall a worthwhile class for me.
Be prepared to read a lot--and very quickly. This class is a ton of work, so if you don't take advantage of the opportunity to build relationships with the prestigious faculty involved, it's really not worth it. Hum10 is a good experience if you're all in.
Taking this class was one of the best decisions I've ever made. My first year would have been a completely different experience without it. If you enjoy literature at all, I would encourage you to take this class. I came into Harvard thinking I'd be either a math or philosophy concentrator, and here I am planning to go into hist and lit. The course's incredible lectures, seminars and excursions are really a once in a lifetime opportunity. Plus the students you meet in this class are all quite diverse and have such fascinating ideas to contribute to class discussions. Hum 10 also teaches you to read and write well, skills that are indispensable if you're considering studying humanities or social sciences.
It's hard to consume so much and stay floating
This class is in some ways good and in some ways not - it's not for everybody, and certainly should not be the "default" humanities class for freshman. Many will be better served by doing an Expos class and then a Comp Lit, English or History class in the other semester. If you want to take this class, it should be because you don't have that much of a background in the texts being studied (note that a lot of what's taught in the class is pretty superficial, and most actual learning comes from your own research for essays), and because you're certain you'll actually do the readings. This class is also effectively an English class - the history/philosophy being discussed is pretty superficial, so that may not be a draw for some. The Expos requirement seems convenient, but also results in writing lab sessions that are painless, but generally a waste of time, and essay topics that often aren't that interesting, especially in the first semester. For example, there is a bizarre fetishisation of "close reading" in the first few essays and students are heavily penalised for not doing enough of it - even though many of the texts we're reading are in translation where that kind of close reading can be close to meaningless, and other more macro forms of literary analysis far more fruitful. If you do take the course, though, be sure to take advantage of the resources that are here. You will get close contact with some incredible professors.
Taking this class was the best decision I made during my freshman year. The professors are brilliant, incredibly invested in the course, and really want to get to know you. The class brings students together, and many of them have become my closest friends at Harvard. The readings are huge, both in terms of their size and their significance. These are the books that should be in  your library, the books that get us closer to understanding what it means to be human. The essay writing and revision process has advanced my writing in ways I had never imagined, and it took my analytical writing to a new level. The more you invest in this class the more it will give- go to office hours to get to know your outstanding professors, talk to your classmates about the books in Annenberg, and take the time to read thoroughly. If you do that, this class can be the absolute highlight of your freshman year.
It's an amazing course, and I wish I had been able to invest more time into it. I think I made the mistake of prioritizing my psets over the readings for hum10 - if I could do freshmen year over again I would not spend so much time perfecting my psets and use the extra hours to do more of the readings. I think it's definitely worth it.
THIS COURSE CHANGES YOUR LIFE.
If you're considering taking this class then that means you probably finished a semester of Hum10. Hum10b is a lot like Hum10a except the books are maybe more interesting and you should feel more comfortable with the class. With that being said it is not easier and is just as difficult as the previous semester's class, but just like Hum10a this class is like no other gen-ed/expos and by taking this class you will learn a ton. If you're thinking about dropping Hum10, in my opinion its better to finish what you started and you can either take another difficult semester of Hum10 but feel slightly better about it or take a sucky and slightly less difficult semester of Expos20. Take Hum10b.
If you will do the reading, take this course. The texts are seminal and many of the professors are wonderful.
You better love reading. ALL genres. Honestly finishing the books is the biggest struggle of my entire freshman year. I succeeded on 2. and they were literally 100 pages each, shakespeare and freud. The others, no hope.
With some adjustments, Humanities 10 could become an essential Harvard course.
This class should be required content across the board! You honestly cannot do better than Hum 10, especially as a freshman. Do yourself a favor and indulge yourself in the incredible faculty and stellar reading list. This is why you came to Harvard.
I would tell them to definitely take Humanities 10, but to realize that Hum10b might be very different than Hum10b. I would easily recommend Hum10a to any student, but I'd warn that Hum10b covers texts that aren't as interesting and don't relate to one another as easily.
This class takes dedication- read each book. Go to office hours. Take advantage of class outings. It isn't required, but the class will be all the better for it. Don't take this class without taking everything you can from it.
This will be a unifying course throughout your freshman year.
Take it! It will change your life and you will make friends and talk about books and become obsessed with your professors.
This course is incredibly idiosyncratic-- just depending on who you get/what books they choose/how good of instructors they are. It is a little disappointing you don't get more say in your section leader-- it would be great if you were interested in, say, philosophy to go with a philosophy professor. Definitely read the books-- you can get by without it but this is an incredible learning experience and such a waste to not.
Be prepared to work and read a lot, but it will be worth it. Sometimes you won't be able to finish the readings, and that's okay, but it's important to remember that this class is for you and you should take from it what you can. Pay attention to the professors, because they have really interesting things to say. More importantly, listen to your classmates, because they'll be some of the smartest people that you'll meet at Harvard in your freshman year.
Expect to spend a lot of time reading. And really make an effort to spend time with your professors and classmates outside of lecture and section, because theyre great people, and theyll be great friends.
Hum10 was a fantastic experience, but it is a very intense course.  Students should consider this class a priority if they choose to enroll.
Not for the faint of heart, the readings are incredibly demanding. This will be one of the hardest courses in your schedule.
The support offered by TFs and faculty is not always exceptionally strong. The syllabus changes regularly, and while it's consistently interesting, the selections do not really push outside of the traditional western canon. Reading a book each week can be a challenge, but you get the hang of it. Having essay drafts and revisions regularly due on top of that reading is a pretty intense hassle. I think it's ultimately a pretty enjoyable and worthwhile course, and I greatly benefited from a much more supportive and concerned TF and professor during my second semester.
It's extremely difficult, but the amount of work you complete over the course of the year is unbelievable (as is the amount of personal growth, too!).
It's a good overview of texts -do not expect close analysis. Expect to briefly discuss some important books. More bookclub than rigorous course.
If you really want to dedicate yourself to the humanities take this course. It will make you a better writer, more educated and aware, and it is a million times better than expos. However, this class is A TON of work (especially if you do all the reading). If you don't want to commit a large chunk of your time to the humanities, do not take this course.
Do it if you haven't been introduced to Western literary tradition, and you're interested in reading and writing a lot. If you apply and get in, you might as well take it, since you get expos and two gen eds out of the way. If you have a lot of other stuff on your plate that you want to prioritize, don't sign up for this thinking that you can scrape by with minimal effort; it's a lot of work.
This has been the most rewarding experience of my freshman year, especially Hum10a. Hum10b is a bit more scattered than 10a; not everything follows linearly, and there are a lot of different styles to go through. If you're willing to do the reading, it's worth it. If you're not planning on reading, it will be hard to get much out of this course. Overall, would recommend for anyone who enjoyed 10a.
Hum 10 is a fantastic class. Hum 10b has many more kinks: it doesn't flow as logically (in part because there are more choices to make in crafting a canon of more recent work), it covers more emotionally and logistically challenging material in the same amount of time, and its professors don't seem to have coordinated as well from lecture to lecture to figure out what needs emphasizing every week. It's still worth it', absolutely, to take the full sequence-- but prepare for a more challenging, occasionally more frustrating second semester. That being said, Hum 10b covered some of the most fascinating material in my opinion (Eichmann in Jerusalem, Dekalog, Ukysses)!
This class is great. Just do the reading. It sounds easy. It is not. But do it. Or don't take it.
I would recommend HUM10 to incoming freshmen on the premise that they are really willing to dedicate a lot of time each week to it. Without doing the readings, this class is inherently unhelpful/useless. The phrase, 'it is what you make of it' has never applied more to any other course I've taken.
Take Humanities 10A and then take Expos 20. Humanities 10B was dramatically inferior to 10A.  The materials weren't as interesting, the lectures were worse, and the staff was not nearly as friendly or helpful.  Humanities 10A was amazing, but I wish I had skipped out on 10B.
It is a good class, but it is more of a summery than an adventure.
Best course I've taken here! If you're curious, please go for it (even if you're not an English person -- I study biology :D)
It's going to be a lot, and you won't be able to do everything they want you to, so it's going to feel like you're falling behind a lot of the time. But that being said, you get out what you put in, and you do feel very accomplished and like a more well-rounded human being after completing the course.
Students interested in 10A: beware of 10B. Everything we read in 10A made sense to me. 10B featured a much more diverse yet questionable syllabus (i.e. a four hour opera and a Polish mini-series). The course is poorly taught on all fronts: ineffective lectures and lackluster sections. My TF was not helpful (to me, at least. There was favoritism). The professors gave off an air of pretension and exclusivity, and so many students liked this course because they were made to feel grateful for being a part of it. Professors went through the motions of being accessible, but quite a few did not seem to care. Why would they schedule weekly office hours just to be dismissive and cold to students? Once, I went to office hours, and a TF was leading a group discussion while the professor sat two tables away reading in private. Honestly, if you don't come from a private school and a wealthy background, you will feel out of place socially and academically. 10B was the epitome of elitism. One of the highlights was Professor Claybaugh's lectures, but it is sad that we invested so much time reading and writing when none of the professors knew how to both lecture effectively and run a fruitful section. I loved 10A, and it is unfortunate that I walk out of 10B feeling degraded.
Hum10 is a challenging course. The first semester, Hum10A, seemed much more cohesive and focused; the second semester lacked the kind of cohesive intent and the professors seemed less engaged- with the exceptions of the marvelous Claybaugh, Whittington, & Osadetz. Hum10 provides a unique experience in that a learning community is actively created & fostered and people really do come together in a marvelous way. There are still some kinks to be worked out.
Hum 10 is a stellar course that will introduce freshmen to amazing faculty, culturally-defining masterpieces, and brilliant peers. It is not graded lightly and involves a ton of reading, but it is worth every minute and has defined much of my freshman year. If you get a chance to, absolutely take Hum 10.
This class is very rewarding: you get to read a lot of must-read books and learn from some of the best professors in the humanities department. The sections are excellent in generating stimulating intellectual conversations. However, be prepared for the workload. It does get to be pretty stressful sometimes, and it's okay to not read everything (although it's definitely better to read). This will probably be one of your harder classes freshmen year, but it's okay, you get three credits for it!
Read sincerely and enjoy the process of discussing and learning about the texts
At the beginning of this school year, I was vaguely considering concentrating in the humanities.  Hum 10, and in particular Hum10B, has crushed any such considerations.  This semester, the class blasted carelessly through a pile of works, rarely moving past the topical in discussion or lecture.  Maybe half the lecturers seemed as though they actually wanted to be teaching the class.  If you are reading this at the start of freshman year, please please don't be lured into taking two semesters of hard-mode expos wrapped up in a spread thin, poorly constructed "great works" course.  Just read the books yourself.  Even if you already took Hum10A, and stand to lose all those juicy credits by bailing now to take expos, I highly recommend that you do.  I wish I had.
Try and get ahead over break - it's impossible to read everything during the semester.
Take it if you like reading. Take if it you're interested in humanities at all, whether or not you're planning to concentrate in them. Take if if you want to read great books and question whether they're so great. Take it only, only, only if you plan to do the readings. Take it if you want a small but well-thought, caring class. Take it if you want to buy into the clique of it. Take it alongside STEM classes, VES classes, and graduate level classes (I know people who did all of the above). Do it for kicks. Do it for the really awesome bookshelf you'll have at the year of all the books you've read and argued about and thought about at weird hours of the night. Take it because you want to be frustrated and fulfilled in a way that makes you want to keep discussing and questioning and challenging yourself. Take it because you're ready to get cut down to size intellectually. Take it for the peers - some of my closest friends are from this class. Take it because you read Ulysses in three weeks and how crazy is that? Check your ego at the door, bring your brain, and commit to the full year. And remember, it won't always be perfect, but you will enjoy it.
I had nothing but the highest praise for Hum10a for me, it was a revelatory course that truly demonstrated the interconnected nature of all of human experience, and the profound power of humanities studies. I felt that Hum10a changed me for the better as a scholar and person; it also convinced me to concentrate in the humanities.After the course set such high expectations in its first half, unfortunately, Hum10b became one of the biggest academic disappointments of the year. In retrospect, I think I would have rather taken Expos 20 and suffered the loss of the Gen Ed fulfillment (the core is changing anyway). Of course, this is probably a rather extreme data point among my peers, and there were many other factors in my academic and personal life that made the spring semester more difficult than the fall. But it never felt worth it to go the extra mile to read or ponder the texts thoroughly, as it did during first semester. Even when I did absorb a text in its entirety, it simply felt like a lot of the texts we were assigned during 10b didn't have as much to yield as 10a's. Lectures were less coherent and compellingly delivered; section felt less revelatory.Furthermore, the second semester of the course had a stricter, more competitive atmosphere. Sometimes it felt like we were back in middle school again. We were required to turn in "reading questions" by a certain deadline before section, which felt forced and probably didn't even enforce thorough reading that much. For the final, we were told that we should not write about any "obvious" connections, even if they were "obvious" because they were the most relevant and promising; we were told not to share our best thoughts with anyone else, because part of the grading depended on how original and unique our individual intertextual connections were relative to everyone else's. The entire final felt banal and artificial; unlike in 10a, reviewing the questions didn't help me synthesize everything I learned in the course, but rather forced me to come up with bullshit to be "original." Where in Hum10a the finals review process was a strenuous but ultimately collaborative and joyful culmination to the course, Hum10b's final felt like punishment and an intellectually masturbatory Hunger Games to find the most tenuous yet still arguable connections and scrape a good grade. The questions about Ulysses, specifically, were pointedly there to punish you for not reading the book line by line. In many ways, Hum10b seemed to embody what people make disdainful cliches about regarding the humanities: the veneration of obscurity and erudition above things that are genuinely meaningful if perhaps more easily accessible or obvious; Professor Claybaugh's condescension; the texts we continue to read "because they're important," rather than because they're actually worth reading, when it's evident during section that they don't yield that much up to discussion. Hum10b was a vital factor in my decision NOT to concentrate in the humanities anymore.When, after finishing Hum10a, I heard that some people were considering not taking Hum10b because of various scheduling things, I thought they were crazy. Why would you not take the second half of such an amazing course? Like I said earlier, though: I might have saved myself some sleep-deprived nights and anxious weeks if I had just taken Expos in the spring instead.
This is a great course. It will challenge you and you will have to work hard, but you will because you will want to. The course is interesting and you get a lot out of it when you engage and put in the time. The professors are exceptional and most of the texts are works that everyone should read at some point. This class is for everyone. It is not just a humanities class, in fact, the diverse set of students in this course enhances the atmosphere and culture.  Also, it is the western cannon, so it will be a lot of white men, but again, these works are worth while, and it is great to have such strong professors to help you examine and dissect them.
From everything that I hear, so much better than expos.
This class is what Harvard is all about. The chance to read so many great works of the Western canon with distinguished faculty members and quality instruction should not be missed. The course requires copious amounts of work, but it is more than worth it in the end.
Great introduction to a lot of important and fascinating works that you otherwise might not read. Lecture is always exciting because it rotates between 5 professors, and section is a great way to get to know one of these professors on a more personal level. It's also probably the best way to get Expos credit. The one caveat to this is that the class moves very fast, with one book per week (with the exception of Ulysses which gets three full weeks). You can still get something out of lecture and section without even touching the books, but this is really a "get out what you put in" situation. So if you do fully engage with each book you can easily have your mind blown and become a master of the canon.
Take this class if you're interested in doing anything in the social sciences or humanities. It truly teaches you how to be a better thinker by challenging you with a number of the great works in literature. Also, the teaching staff in other years includes Stephen Greenblatt and Louis Menand, two of the truly great Harvard professors so unlike me, you would have a phenomenal teaching staff as well.
A great course if you enjoy reading and literature.
You will be challenged and you will make lots of friends!
Hum 10 is a great course in a lot of ways. You get to know people more than you might in an average course, and you get great exposure to interesting faculty members who are genuinely invested in making this a great experience for you. Seminar was generally very interesting and you can get a lot out of this course if you do all of the reading. That said, it is also quite easy to get away with not doing the reading--not that I recommend this because you obviously won't get anything out of it and that's not very fulfilling. Also, it can be a wildly inconsistent class, both in terms of the lecture quality and in terms of the workload. Ulysses was a particular challenge; while absolutely great, it's not really a book you can read in three weeks while taking three other classes and doing everything else that comes with general existence at Harvard. I think the Hum 10 professors expect you to live for Hum 10 a little more than is actually possible for a Harvard student, so keep in mind that you might feel like you've disappointed yourself/them at some point. You'll also get to discuss interesting texts with cool people and learn a lot! Plus, fulfill the Expos requirement without suffering through full Expos.
Take Hum 10b to fulfill Expos. Take Hum 10b to get GenEd credit. Take Hum 10b for Ulysses. I had a very bad experience with this course, which was disappointing given how much I loved Hum 10a. I was barely able to talk in section because the professor was so domineering, one of the professors turned me away from office hours, and the final basically told us to compete against each other for the best grade. If you want to take part in the Hunger Games, this is your chance to volunteer as tribute.
This is a very broad class that gets marketed very well as an expos alternative but beware, the fact it goes for a whole year makes it probably worse than most expos sections. Some people loved it, but it's very broad and shallow and only really for those who want to spend a whole year on a survey course. Lectures quite bad throughout the course just because very little "new" was ever elucidated.
I learned so much in this course! It was a really exciting and fun experience to read all these texts and I feel so much more prepared to speak about any other text knowing how it relates to the texts we read in this course. My abilities to understand and analyze texts have also improved substantially while taking this course. It's exhilarating to go through texts so quickly and find unexpected connections between them. Another unexpectedly wonderful thing about this course was that it became a really close community -- Hum10 kids know each other, talk to each other, and are friends with each other.
If you want to better understand the world, take this course.
