I feel so grateful to be able to have taken this introductory humanities course at Harvard.  A highly innovative and monumental feat, this class broke academic boundaries and assumptions at every step of the way and yet somehow flowed smoothly all along.  Lectures by Prof. Roberts & Kelsey are a real treat, and field trips and class labs greatly enhance the entire experience.  The analytical framework of a "visual technology" is one that I will now carry with me for the rest of my life.
Fantastic "pre-disciplinary" course with straight-up fun assignments, innovative lecture/section format, and great faculty/TF support.
This course teaches you how to think in new ways. I loved its multi-disciplinary nature and the relevance of the material in my everyday life. If you want to learn more about art/technology/interaction and history of both, you should definitely take this course!
This class is a great mix of interesting visual forms, fun field trips, unique lab assignments and great lectures! I would recommend it to upper clansmen as well!
Gives you a new outlook on art as a whole
strongly recommend to those students with no background in arts or who think they do not have a sense of art in any way, it would let you see that an abundant amount of stuff you never thought as art in your daily life is actually visual technology of some kind worth looking into, it is fun to have a final project of your own to work on as well
This class is a great way to be introduced to the humanities. The sections were fun and there wasn't a lot of work outside of class, but the lectures could be boring sometimes. The final project was a good experience.
The course is very easy and fun at times. This was the first year it was taught, but I hope it stays the same going forward.
This course is a great introduction to art history that anyone could take regardless of their interests. It fosters the creation of new ideas by encouraging students to create new views on a visual technology of their choice.
This class is awesome if you want to learn from two of the most interesting professors at Harvard. The class, however, is poorly structured and doesn't really help individual students as much as people would like.
The class is really interesting for those who aren't used to analyzing implicit ways of thinking.
This course is a really great way to fulfill your A&i requirement. The lectures are engaging and the sections are led by graduate students that do an amazing job with actually getting you to interact with the the visual elements discussed in lecture. The assignments that follow often allow for a significant amount of creativity and the final project, while a bit time-consuming, is enough within this same vein to be pretty enjoyable process. I would definitely recommend this course to anyone interested in it. I think you'll be surprised at just how much you end up liking it.
Roberts and Kelsey are incredible lecturers and the class is fun and innovative. As a new class there were a couple of bumps, but they do a great job of trying to make it less of a straight history of art class and more of a science of art class.
I took this class to meet a gen-ed requirement my first semester here and it was an excellent decision. Every time the professors talked I could feel my IQ increasing. The readings are easy and non-essential, but you understand everything much better if you do them because the method of analysis, which is the true subject of the class, works from facts developed in the readings. The assignments are unique and entertaining to the point that they do not feel like assignments. This is also true of the final project, which is very well structured.
This class is really interesting. It isn't really like a classic college course, but that is one of the best things about it. I am positive that this class helped me look at art and the world in a new way. It taught me how to look for deeper meaning behind the things I see every day that I take for granted.
I learned so much about topics that I didn't know existed. I developed new interests and skills that I didn't know I would ever learn. Taking this course was a highlight of my semester and learning experience in general.
this course is pleasant in the sense that it was often generally interesting and rarely required much effort
This class is the best class I have taken at Harvard yet. If you have space for an elective or need an Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding class, TAKE THIS CLASS!!!
It's a really fun class that stays interesting the entire time. Not very difficult and a good intro class and gen ed course. Take this class.
I loved this class for all of the knowledge it teaches. It was exciting learning about various topics ranging from daguerreotypes to color palettes to mahogany. The class granted me a breadth of art history but also an amount of depth to truly appreciate each individual visual technology.
This course is refreshing, captivating, and enriching. The lectures are marvelous--they are informative and entertaining. The structure of the course (the rotations between lecture, looking, and lab) proved effective for catalyzing the greatest engagement with all of the visual technologies. The varied manner in which information is presented and interacted with provides maximum coverage and understanding of the material. The course is nontraditional and fun. The work is not overly demanding, yet remains stimulating. The deliberation with which the assignments were crafted is apparent; nothing is busy work and the assignments never feel like a  waste of time. Overall, this course was extremely interesting and beneficial. I fervently recommend the Art of Looking.
Take this class. It is incredible. The assignments are interesting and the lectures are wonderful. Both professors have the ability to blow your mind. The final project might sound intimidating, but if you choose a subject you enjoy, it's actually fun. Seriously, take this class.
This class is a great opportunity to observe and discuss objects in Harvard's collections first-hand, yet it also allows you to connect these visual technologies to wider social and historical trends. The assignments are engaging and encourage a creative approach.
Take this class! It will open your eyes to new ways of thinking about the world. It is a very chill class, but you get a lot out of it. There is a lot of freedom, especially with the final project. The professors and TFs really care about this course, so it is very well done and unlike any other class.
A great intro course to the humanities.
This class is a wonderful, fun, relaxing Gen Ed to take, especially if you already have a pretty busy schedule. I'm a sophomore, and I hadn't taken any sort of art/humanities class at Harvard before, and really like that this was a survey class, with a new topic every week. The section field trips were great - I went to museums and saw artifacts I didn't know existed on Harvard's campus. The writing assignments were short, but fun and creative. And I learned how to look a art a little differently and how to ask questions about art and the development of art forms.
It's a great introduction to art and art history for someone not familiar with either. I could easily imagine a STEM major enjoying and excelling in this class, which is a perfect way to get your feet wet while also knocking off a Gen-Ed. If you have significant background in the humanities, I'd recommend taking a more in-depth, traditional course. Not because I believe that format works better necessarily, but because you don't get to see the element of continuity within an artistic tradition through this course, which I think is a critical part of studies in art history. That said, I think it's the perfect little taste of interesting, thought-provoking analysis and beautiful art to whet the appetite. Would definitely recommend to anyone looking for an interesting and enjoyable Gen-Ed.
This is a wonderful class that will definitely teach you to evaluate the world in a new way. I had never before considered the visual properties of mahogany, but now I can probably talk for over an hour on it and several other "visual technologies." This is a great way to be introduced to the humanities, or to fill out a Gen Ed.
Taking this class is like landing on a distant planet ruled by elementary school teachers. The material and assignments are foreign and new, but at the same time childish, faux-insightful, and agonizingly easy.But it's an A&I gen ed. So yes, I'd recommend it.
This was the first offering of a uniquely structured class that is bound to be even better in coming years. As a "Frameworks" course, it is intended to introduce students to broad techniques of interdisciplinary investigation. In place of the typical lectures and discussion sections, weekly class meetings are separated into lectures, looking sessions, and labs.  Lectures are traditional talks on highlighted visual technologies ranging from maps to microscopes.  Looking sessions involve visits to museums or galleries to view local examples. Labs are creative section activities that engage with a given technology, such as "speed dating" sessions based on color swatches or trial hearings using student-designed graphs as evidence.  Rather than an exam, the course culminates with the design of an online research plan regarding a chosen visual technology.  Overall, the class is a fun way to fulfill your A&I GenEd with innovative assignments and a caring staff.
This class is a great intro to the humanities.  It teaches you to analyze technologies for their values and limitations, which is an important skill for the humanities as well as other fields.  It is also very fun!
I went into this class thinking that it would be something like an art history class, but although that wasn't really the case, I'm extremely glad that I took it. Professor Roberts and Professor Kelsey are great and each week is unique and different with creative assignments that aren't too difficult.
Great way to become more aware of the visual components that surround our lives
This is a very dumbed down version of an actual Art History course. I would not take this course if you want to take a real Art History course. This course deals more with the visual culture of the society.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!!! People might tell you it is an easy and painless Gen-Ed. They are LYING!!! If you get a bad/tough TF, you will be graded harshly on assignment and not find out until it is too late to fix the problem. Moreover, lectures and section (2 hours long) are so painfully boring that it physically hurts to get through them.
I did learn a lot during this class, and all of the work is manageable. The only issue is during lab it feels like you are teaching yourself purely based on guessing, which felt uncomfortable to me, I want to hear from an expert and not make assumptions based on my observations.
This course could (and has been, in past years) better. The material is still often interesting and engaging, the visits to the museums and collections are enjoyable, but the course gets very repetitive and boring at times. Lectures are often surface-level and dry. 2-hour weekly sections can get long. Overall, the workload is minimal. Weekly response papers aren't all that bad. Take this course if you need an elective and think the material could be interesting. It gives a nice historical overview/perspective and will make you think differently about many visual media and the world around you. But don't expect to be wowed on a weekly basis.
Be prepared to sit in for long sections.
very interesting and eye-opening
Take this course, the section or "lab" component is very hands on and fun!
Definitely recommend this course to fulfill the gened requirement. The workload is relatively low and section is often very fun and hands-on (it ranges from making ceramic pots and "woodcut carving" prints to observing works of art in the Harvard Art Museums).  Make sure to put in effort for the response papers, though - grading for those can be tough.
This course was very interesting. The coursework is also light (just a weekly lecture, response paper, and 2-hour section and a final presentation at the end). But, because it's a gen-ed course and I took it to balance out my schedule, I didn't put in as much effort as I would have hoped for. Had I actually paid more attention in lecture/ read the readings more thoroughly, I would have had a more "transformative experience" (< in all seriousness), but still from the sometimes exciting (ceramics studio, printmaking, etc.) sections, this class did change the way I see things. I would recommend this class for anyone that doesn't have another gen ed class they are deadset on taking. Also would make a great elective.
lot of section time
Lectures can be a but repetitive but overall a good class!
This is an easy class, but don't expect to learn very much. The weekly response papers are not difficult but the material and readings are not very engaging. I'm sure there must be better A&I out there
Great class, not too much work and it's fun
Lectures are extremely engaging. There is only random warm calling for participation in lecture. Section could be a bit dry and dull depending on section leaders. Start on the final presentation early because it counts for a pretty sizable part of your grade. Also, take the suggestions of your tf seriously and actually work towards writing better response papers.
Do well on response papers
Honestly, this class is pretty interesting. Not the "omg I love this and wish I could know more" type of interesting, just the "wow there's a lot out there, cool" type of interesting. Other students seemed to enjoy there Hum11a experience a lot more than I did, but honestly, Jules made this class suck. I came into this class hoping to leave with a greater appreciation for art, but all I left with was a bunch of mean comments and harsh grading. The response papers are graded through a bunch of feedback throughout the semester. This feedback is supposed to come off of a rubric, but for Jules, that meant attacking my writing style. Honestly, I did poorly in this class because no matter how much effort I put in, I was always discouraged by her feedback and, by the end, I just couldn't care because what's the point if I just apparently suck.
It is an enjoyable class.
Mostly fun to go to the museums and learn about all of these visual technologies. Lectures were boring and didn't add anything to the required readings. The response papers each week are annoying but mostly painless. Section is hit or miss. Overall a pretty easy and interesting class, but not amazing.
This is a good course if you're looking for a not-too-difficult gen-ed, but want more out of it than you'd get from Hebrew Bible.
Only take this class if you have an interest and the curiosity in art.
Definitely a Gen Ed gem, but not extremely rewarding in terms of academic depth. For me, the subject matter was pretty interesting just because I felt like I was learning a lot of little tid bits about art/history that I would never have otherwise.
This class is SUPER chill and just really fun in general. Labs are amazing, and workload is pretty light.
A good course for learning about many different media (mahogany, porcelain, oil paint, daguerreotype, etc).  The weekly response papers take more time than you might think.
Get sean as a TF!
This is actually a very fun and eye-opening class! I would totally recommend this as an elective to help round out a semester (aka very low workload), especially if you want to get to know the art museum more. Sections can vary from very fun to extremely tedious, especially towards the end, so quality does vary. However, you can tell that the teaching staff and Professor Roberts care a lot. I never thought I would think about mahogany or porcelain the way I did in this class. If you really care about your grades and need this to boost your gpa, the grading can be arbitrary depending on TF (since my TF never really adhered to the rubric when giving feedback) so be forewarned.
This class truly changes the way you look at the world around you and how you can utilize visual technologies in order to further your understanding of a particular topic.
I came into Hum 11A thinking it would be an easy Gen Ed to take alongside my advanced upper-level quantitative courses, and left Hum 11A with a profoundly greater appreciation for many of the visual technologies we take for granted all the time in our modern rapid-paced society. The course was not difficult (for those who put in the requisite work) and was very interesting. Lecture was frankly a bit dry at times, and is mandatory, which is my only significant gripe with the course. Otherwise, an exemplary Gen Ed and an interesting class.
Take this course. It is a fantastic Gen Ed. It provided great balance in the subjects of my course load, provided great opportunities to go to the museum and the like, and exposure to new thoughts that would contribute to any student no matter their concentration. It is worth it.
In trying to be more academically strenuous, this class has become entirely tedious. DO NOT TAKE IT. You can learn A LOT MORE with comparably LESS BUSY WORK. The questions that this course asked were superficial; the teaching staff is subpar; the only good part is looking at materials through the Harvard Museums, but honestly you can do that in your own time. Also, the course assignments have mind-bogglingly contradictory advice and expectations
Enjoy!
Your section leader really determines how much you enjoy the course as sections are 2 hours long, so it might just be luck of the draw when it comes to how the course treats you.
This was the best Gen ed I have taken.  It was engaging and fun.  Low course work, but a small to medium time commitment (as you will be taken to art galleries and a pottery studio).  I am an athlete who hasn't had an art class since elementary school and found this class incredibly engaging.  Take this class.
It is really fun and you learn quite a bit of history too
Recommend for freshmen particular. It's an amazing introduction to art and the humanities.
Really cool class where you learn about lots of different mediums and the readings are all insightful. Buying into section and being enthusiastic about the topic makes it much more fun also
It's not an easy A class, at least not this year. It's a very chill class, and you actually learn interesting and fun things, but you will have to put in 5+ hours of work.
This is a good class that does not require a ton of time. Does require a 500 word response weekly and a final project. The final project can be painless and interesting if you pick something you are genuinely excited about. Lectures were often good but sometimes dry and repetitive. Section can feel long (2 hours) but many of them are fun (making pottery and other art projects).
A super fun class that teaches you how to think critically about the aesthetics and art in your everyday life. The labs for the class are especially worth it - you get to make your own porcelain and printmaking!
This course is a great way to gain a new appreciation for art and the visual world. The labs are sometimes quite fun and other times feel a bit contrived. Overall, a solid course but not the best I've ever taken.
section too long. lecture boring/dry. attendance/cold calling strategy was ineffective and inconsistent. response papers graded arbitrarily. not a coasting class due to the frequent response papers. semi-interesting material, but students are treated like kids with lots of hand holding about the papers/presentations which is annoying for a seasoned upperclassman.
Basically the only work in the 500 word response papers and the final project. I had to devote a few hours each sunday just to doing them.
This class was very manageable and the material is very cool, its a win-win.
This is a great course that does not require too much time.
Loved this course, took it as an elective senior spring, and it really did broaden my perspective. However, beware that the weekly response papers do take a while, and it's frustrating because you never receive any grades on anything (still have no idea what I will receive in this course). Some sections are better than others depending heavily on your TF......but lectures are objectively good, so definitely make an effort to go!
This is a really interesting class and a good Gen Ed. It gives a great overview of different topics in the humanities and you get to actually create pieces of art yourself during the labs. This class is a really nice change of pace from the typical Harvard class. The weekly response papers can be somewhat problematic if you procrastinate too much (and none of the assignments in this class are graded, which is frustrating) but overall it's a really good class.
This class is still evolving, so it might be different next year. It was fine, nothing special. If you like art, you'll probably like this class. If you don't like art, you might not love the class, but you probably won't love any other art classes either, and this one isn't terrible. The weekly response papers are more annoying than anything else, and they changed the expectations halfway through the year, which they need to sort out. By spring break I wasn't even looking at the response paper assignment in the syllabus because they had changed what they asked for. But it's still a decent course with a small amount of time actually spent in class (only 3.5 hours a week including section).
This class is absolutely amazing and everyone should take it. First of all robin Kelsey is an amazing lecturer-- each class is very engaging and warm calling, which might scare people away, is not scary at all. The best part of the course however is the sections!! We get to do so many fun things including making block prints and porcelain pots. Every section literally was amazing and did not feel like two hours at all. Also Sam Ewing is the best TF (but I've heard great things about the other TFs as well, so they're probably all awesome!)
This class is a wonderful introduction to the visual technologies that compose our world today. By learning about their histories, assumptions, and created cultures, students learn about the relationship between building a technology and the culture that ways of visualizing the world create.
This class will change you and your views on the world. Be ready.
Make sure to start the readings at least two days before the essay is due. A couple of the readings were very dry and it was difficult to read them all in one night.
This is a fantastic class!
If you do the readings and come to lecture, this course will impact how you view not only art but also the seemingly simple act of beholding and perceiving.
Very good gen ed class
Take it. It was by far my favorite class the entire year. I always looked forward to going to class because it was that good. The only bad thing is that the readings are super boring and dry. The lectures can be interesting, or dull. But section is always fantastic. Also be prepared to be warm called.
Great class! Professor Kelsey is really engaging and I loved his lectures. Readings very interesting and manageable and the labs were lots of fun.
This course makes you think in new ways about the seemingly ordinary around you. The readings were actually quite interesting and the assignments involve responding to them. The final presentation is fun and they give you plenty of time to get everything together.
AoL is a really exciting, off-the-beaten-path kind of class! As someone who had never taken any kind of art history or VES class, I felt like this class was a great introduction to the visual world.
Great class. Grading may seem arbitrary.
really enjoyed the labs, they made me appreciate each visual technology in a more substantial way
If not for a gen-ed this might be a bit hard to justify though it's a nice fourth class addition to any schedule. It's interesting but not life changing.
This class has a pretty stellar value proposition: minimal work (medium-length weekly response papers on <30 pages of reading, plus a 15 minute final presentation); lots of time in the Materials Lab of the Harvard Art Museum, where you get to make your own woodblock prints, bronze molds, and porcelain pinch pots; and pithy, painless, and engaging lectures by Professor Kelsey (who sound a lot like Jerry Seinfeld) once a week on a huge range of visual objects. Pretty much the perfect elective!
A truly educational and eye opening class - intellectually interesting readings, easy writing assignments, and not much work outside of attending (the very engaging and fun) lectures and section! The chillest way to fulfill your A&I requirement, even if you aren't artsy at all.
Great class. Lectures were engaging and interesting. Do not worry about "warm calling" it is very casual and straight forward. Beware of grading in the class. I have taken all of my finals and am packing up to leave for the semester, and I have still not received a single grade from this class. It is frustrating, I have no idea how I did all semester.
A great course to know if you like the humanities or not.
I would HIGHLY HIGHLY HIGHLY recommend this class, like really, I can't emphasize that enough. This class was a great community and learning environment and provides the opportunity to learn about everyday "technologies" that we often take for granted. My favorite class of the semester, hands down.
Everyone should absolutely take this class! The materials are interesting, the lectures are insightful, and the sections are incredibly fun. You get to make actual wood cuts and paint and make clay. It's an amazing gen ed.
Seriously, this class is wonderful. As someone who loves Art History, the way the course is organized into units of visual technologies are very informative and makes you think a lot about what constitutes and affects the way we look at things.
Take this course! It's exam-free and stress-free, and the only work is weekly 500 word response papers and a final presentation. The topics are SO interesting and the labs are so much fun!
Loved this class! unlike any other class at harvard. no grades throughout the semester, only holistic feedback, no midterm and no final. It was also really really interesting and loved going to the materials lab and visiting the museum. Looked forward to it every week and learned a lot! 10/10 would recommend. Dont let "cold calling" turn you off from this class.
A really great class filled with opportunities to interact with true artworks with cultural significance and understanding.
I took this class with Prof Kelsey, and if he ever has time to teach it again...TAKE IT. I'm sure Jennifer Roberts is a skilled professor, but Kelsey was outstanding. Really made my semester to take a gen-ed without a ghastly amount of work that held my interest AND I got a lot out of it.
Took it to knock out a GenEd, but left having had a good time. Most sections are fantastic  they're basically Harvard's version of Arts and Crafts. Readings are dense, but they're not super long, and all that's really asked of you over the course of the semester is to produce response papers and participate, so the class is definitely worth taking.
Section is incredibly fun with the hands-on activities. Lectures are interesting but slightly unnecessary to do well in the course.
There are higher level art classes that can offer you the same appreciation for art and ability to analyze art that do not have the same structure.
This class is fairly easy and straightforward, but at times the topics can be a little vague if you are not fully engaged with the readings, lectures, section etc. Section is enjoyable and incorporates creative hands on learning.
This is a pretty interesting class for those who do not have a lot of humanities background.  It isn't too much work as you only have to read and analyze a few articles as well as write a 2 page response paper.  The final project is actually super interesting and will help you really think about an object in your life.
Taking this class was one of the best decisions I made while at Harvard. I had absolutely no experience with any kind of art history, but this class made great works very accessible, and I now have a more critical and thoughtful lens into the world of everything visual. Easily the best way to fulfill A&I!
If you want to satisfy A&I and take a super fun and interesting course, take that! I'm a STEM concentrator so this course was so different from all of my other courses and I learnt so many new things every week. The section component of this course is absolutely amazing, you will get to do so many fun things. Having said that, every week had a different visual technology and some of the weeks had readings that were particularly boring to me probably because of the technology that we focused on that week.
the response papers take a bit to get used to writing them, but the class overall is interesting and a cool way to do your AI gened
This is not a terrible class, although the weekly 500-word response can fell like a burden sometimes. The section component of this class is really great because you can get to put into action so of the art techniques you learn in class and access to Harvard's art collection is truly a gem.
I loved this course! It was a great introduction into art history and visual analysis for people who were not familiar with this subject before.
Hum11a is one of the hidden gems of the AIU Gen. Ed. requirement. You will not regret taking it.
Take this class! No matter what professor is teaching. Kelsey is an engaging lecturer. Section is super fun with fun activities--they're 2 hours long, but not bad at all.
This class was phenomenal, one of my favorites at Harvard. Prof. Kelsey is a phenomenal lecturer and the class was both intellectually stimulating/substantive and low key. Sections are long but extremely fun and force you to think about the visual world around you in a new light. Individuals of all backgrounds will come away with practical visual understanding and something to take with them to their own discipline. It's a gem class that everyone should take!
Not a great class. Lectures were very interesting, but the section component (called Lab) met for a brutal 2 hours per week. The museum trips were fun, but the other sections were first grade-style arts and crafts. Might appeal to some, but I can think of better things to do with my time at Harvard than be-dazzle cardboard boxes.
You have to do an AIU. I just couldn't pay attention in lecture, the material is not interesting.
This is a great way to fulfill a gen ed. Professor Kelsey, who was lecturing this semester, is a great lecturer and you really do learn a lot about visual analysis and about visual technologies in general. The class is a lot of fun as well, and section often involves hands-on activities such as making your own art or field trips to the Harvard art museum. The amount of work required by this class is very minimal, and if you're good at writing very short response papers then this class will be very easy for you. Even if you aren't great at analytical writing, the amount of writing required in this class is pretty small anyway, and overall it's a very low workload and low stress class that can really change the way you look at things if you pay attention in lecture.
This is a fun, laid back, interesting introduction to art history and visual technologies. It starts slow but picks up quick with interesting content and sections. It is hands on and reminiscent of a great high school course. Definitely take.
This class is pretty interesting.  The readings can be long, but if you are fine doing them and writing weekly response papers then there is no reason not to take this class for your A&I.  Also the section is super fun.
I would really recommend this class because it is quite interesting.
The Art of Looking was an amazing course that discussed the intersection of science and art in the history of visual technology. I found the approach of interpreting art as innovative technology very intriguing because not only did our discussion of the process of creating the technology increase my appreciation and understanding of it, but it also made me aware of how the materiality, engineering challenges, psychological influences, and social context can play a role in the interpretation of art. I took this course on a whim and it has been one of the best experiences I've had at Harvard! If you get to lottery into this course DEFINITELY take it.
Amazing class. amazing professor. prepare to have the way you think about looking and the visual world around you completely changed.
Great class; grading is a little vague but overall low work load and great introduction to the humanities.
