It's an easy class, but the readings aren't especially fun to read. And the Wiki assignment was weird.
This is a great course for a gen ed or elective. I typically more of a math/science person, but I actually enjoyed this course a lot because it was low-stress, low-time commitment and really gave me an appreciation for literature. Throughout the semester, you will get to read a broad selection of world literature, beginning with epics written on clay tablets and ending with modern day writers, and most of the works are super interesting! In terms of assignments, you have casual response papers each week and a wiki projects, which is a really fun way to synthesize your understanding of a text. If you actually do the readings (which are usually not too long), you will definitely enjoy the class and gain an understanding about how culture influences literature and literature influence culture.
This course is amazing in that you get to engage with a variety of texts with two incredibly talented professors. That said, really make sure you do the readings, otherwise class and section time will be a waste and you'll feel highly disengaged.
Great way to read a lot of books you might be too lazy to read otherwise
This is a great course if you want to learn about a wide variety of interesting literary accomplishments, their authors, their historical contexts, and the evolution of literature on a global scale. It is a great course to introduce you to a variety of authors and playwrights worldwide and across centuries. It has informed me of the source of many important literary traditions, and I feel that I can now approach literature in a more confident and informed manner. You don't need extensive prior experience when entering this class. That being said, you reap what you sow in this class, and I believe that anyone who thoughtfully engages with the selected readings for each week will find a renewed love of literature and a whole new list of authors that you will want to continue to read long after the course has ended.
If you want to read great works of literature outside the Western canon, this is an excellent course for you. Professors Damrosch and Puchner are both wonderful and provide fascinating insights into the texts you read. The classes are very interesting and engaging, and you will learn a lot. This isn't a very difficult course, but you will get so much more out of it if you really take time to carefully read and engage with each text. The course organization still has a few small things to iron out since this was the first year of Hum12 in this version. These are pretty minor, however (section organization, assignment formats, etc.) and didn't really detract from my enjoyment of the course. Also they will probably largely be fixed for next year. This is a great course and you should take it!
One of the best Harvard courses I've taken by far. Passionate and honestly entertaining teachers and tfs. Great books you'll be alluding to for the rest of your life. Quite a bit of reading but otherwise not too difficult a work load. I couldn't recommend this course more highly. Courses such as this are why I came here.
If you are awash in a sea of science courses, looking for a pretty easy humanities course that will really broaden your perspective, this is it.
The workload for this class is not too intense as a gened. The wiki entry can actually be a LOT of fun, and I personally enjoyed it a fair bit.  In terms of the materials, in all honesty, sparknotes and cliffnotes are great means to be able to accurately participate in section and lecture discussions.  However, when it comes to the final exam, you will need to make sure that you have a really good understanding of at least 6 of the works studied - and for this, you will need to skim, or cross-reference with various online sites. Damrosch and Pucehner are amazing professors, and they have great stories to share.  Definitely recommend for a chill and fun gened, that will make you appreciate world literature!
I took this course as an elective and really enjoyed it. The professors are very friendly and the TFs were always willing to help. The books we read were also great and covered a wide variety of cultures and time periods. We also went to plays and museums, which made the class even better. While we could have done more close readings of the passages, I would still recommend it to anyone!
Well rounded course with multiple veins of learning.
This was a great course; workload was low and the wiki assignment was fun!  As a cs major who loves to read but barely has time to do so, this class was a gift.  I got to read books that I always wanted to read and it wasn't even an overwhelming amount of reading per week.  Yun and Yanping, the TFs, were also really sweet and incredibly helpful and engaging in section.
This class is really great! You get to read a variety of literature from authors from around the world! The professors are really great and engaging. This class is awesome because there is no term paper so it's low stress.
Its a wonderful class and the teaching staff is dedicated to making it a enjoyable experience! I will recommend this to all that want a fun introduction to world literature
This is a wonderful class because the focus in each text is not just limited to that one text; the focus is on "world literature" and you really do appreciate the relationship between a work and the culture it belongs to. The professors and TF's are fantastic at generating enthusiasm for the class, and while one book a week seems hard, the books are always interesting quick reads and the professors will always give you selected excerpts to focus on. The Wiki entry is also a very friendly way to engage with a text, and is a much better alternative to a term paper!
If you have an interest in reading lots of cool literature from around the world, this is a great, low-pressure way to do it.
I really enjoyed reading literature by authors from around the world. The Professors and TAs facilitated truly engaging class discussions and their passion for the subject makes the learning experience so much more meaningful. This was a wonderful class and I feel more connected to the world I live in and even more connected to history as a result of the cultural traditions that I was exposed to throughout the course of the semester!
The section component of this class is excellent. However, the lectures are rather scattered with seemingly useless activities and ideas.
This class is amazing -- unreal that there is a literature class that doesn't make you write anything....... the wiki assignment is chill and fun, section is awesome, and lectures are engaging. The readings are short and SOOOO awesome. you only read great works of world literature. no brainer, take this course
A great overview of World Literature that provides solid commentary and contextual information on the works. I took it as a last chance to get involved with the humanities after four years of mostly STEM classes and it was a great change of pace.
Take the reading list and read those books, stop in for the professors office hours. If you are genuinely interested in expanding your cultural knowledge of world literature thats all you need to do. If you want a relatively easy gen ed that also covers some of the history and methods surrounding the emergence of world literature then actually enroll in the class.
This is a wonderful course that manages to accomplish a lot in a very short amount of time. You'll read a wide variety of texts, from 2000 BC to the modern era, that come from several literary traditions around the globe. The readings are incredibly enjoyable, and each offers a unique perspective into the culture and history that shaped it. What truly makes the course shine, however, is its focus on student participation. Lecture is a wonderful experience, and is peppered with engaging activities and opportunities for you to interact with the professors and fellow students. I really looked forward to the readings each week and am telling everyone I know about this class. Definitely take this class before you leave Harvard, it is a gem.
This course is relaxing, interesting, and has a very low workload for a literature class. Lectures are always engaging, section is fun (and not a waste of time like many gen-ed classes), and readings are a manageable number of pages each week.
It comes off a fair course, but grading is incredibly harsh even when you make the expected changes. Having the books for the final exam would have been easiest, but ti is hard to do on a budget.
The course material is overall interesting, but you will nonetheless wish that you could have spent more time focusing on the particular works you liked and conversely dread time spent on works you did not like.Course workload can be deceptively high because of the reading material.
This class was as fun, interesting, and informative as I could have expected from a gen ed. I liked the way the lectures were taught in historical perspective and sections were fun. It was a good opportunity to interact with people from different grades in a subject matter most of us weren't planning to actually concentrate in
This course is fun and interactive. The assigned books are amazing.
This is a very relaxed way to read some great literature.
This is a very manageable class in which you will learn a lot about the best pieces of world literature. Assignments throughout the semester include weekly blog posts, one final project, and one final exam (no midterms or tests). My TF this year was incredible and engaging and passionate about the subject, but I'm not sure if he is teaching next year/if the class will be offered because the professors are taking leave.
I really enjoyed this class, it was a fairly relaxed environment in which I got to read some fantastic literature. I found section discussions really interesting, as we really dove into and analyzed the texts.  Lecture was a bit drier, and tended to focus more on the historical context or life of the author.
If you're looking for a fairly chill gen ed, but still learn a lot, this is the class to take! You will read so many fantastic texts, and the professors provide a lot of insight especially about the historical context. The class prioritizes breadth over depth, so if you're looking to deeply engage with the texts, this won't be the class for you. However, if you are unlikely to take other literature courses ever, this class does a great job of having a wide variety of texts. The reading is also manageable, and I would highly suggest that you do the reading before lecture. It's critical to keep up with the reading!
I thought this class was great and relatively easy, with just one Wiki assignment and open-note final exam. However, the only problem I would mention is that sometimes I thought we went through texts too quickly, so that the course seemed more like a survey of world literature rather than a deep exploration of any text.
An amazing class. Everything about it is incredible. I can't imagine there are better A and I gen eds.
This course did an amazing job of overviewing world literature. Rather than reading all of specific works, we read the important chapters of many books. This helped shorten the material down to what is relevant and useful today.
Took P/F because I wanted some world lit exposure; glad I did
Great class, manageable workload, definitely take the time to do the readings
I would tell students that this is a great course because you get to read everything from Gilgamesh to Jhumpa Lahiri. It's a good survey course of world literature, and the Professors and TFs are really helpful. I learned a lot about world literature, and literature in general, and I really enjoyed learning about the historical context to the works. The readings should be enjoyable, keep on top of them and your wiki project and you should be fine.
The course provides an excellent introduction to a diversity of world literature. It also includes interesting components, such as optional Friday field trips and the wiki project.
This course exposes you to incredible literature, but it suffers from Gen Ed syndrome.  There are too many people in the class and many of them don't care about it, which is frustrating if you're actually passionate about literature. The course also didn't seem to be designed with that many people in mind.  Having said that, however, the content itself is great!
DO THE READINGS!! You are cheating yourself of an incredible experience if you are lazy about doing the readings.  Sure you can skate by in lecture and even section if you are negligent in this department, but as someone who rarely has the opportunity to take humanities classes, I found the readings incredibly enlightening and the discussions resultantly were that much more interesting.
This class is wonderful.  The readings are super interesting from Death and the Kings Horsemen to Arabian Nights and The Odyssey.  You get to explore some of the classic books you've always wanted to read but never got the chance or maybe not in an academic setting.  I have a new appreciation for literature.  Weekly postings for participation. Wiki assignment that can be done in pairs assigned at the beginning of the semester and a final.  Can easily finish wiki early. Have rough draft (40 points) and final (60 points) draft of the wiki. As a science concentrator, I learned a great appreciation for the course and for world literature in general. I especially appreciated the cultural and historical context explored in addition to the text itself.
This is an awesome course! The readings are fascinating, and the professors truly enjoy what they are teaching. It isn't too heavy in terms of work load, and the sections are really engaging. Creating my own Wiki was also an interesting experience.
This course has opened my eyes to some fantastic works of literature that I would not have know even existed if I did not take this course. Learning how to discuss literature critically is something, I think, that applies to every field of study and is a very useful skill.
Fairly easy. Start the wiki early though. How much work you put in beyond that is really up to you (try your best to engage with the material, it really is interesting!)
The premise of the class is really promising: read interesting texts from around the world, and in that respect it's great. Lectures, however, were scattered and largely a waste of two hours.
This class is the best type of general education course to take! The expectations are clear and the grading is very fair. Reading (usually part of) one book per week is completely manageable, and I found that the weekly posts and discussion sections were fun and engaging. This was such an eye-opening course...in no other time in your life can you just spend time reading works of world literature and discussing them with really renowned professors.
Readings are great, but you'd get more out of just doing them on your own.
I took this class to fulfill the English pre-med requirement, and I'm so glad I did!! It's an awesome balance between taking a real literature class, but also not feeling entirely out of your league (I'm a life sciences concentrator). You will real a lot, but the readings are awesome and works I'm really glad I now have the knowledge to think about and talk about with others. The course staff worked hard to pick out parts of often really long books that are most interesting and relevant, and it was definitely manageable to keep up with weekly readings. One aspect of the course I appreciated most was that the writing involved in this class is very low stakes - weekly response paragraphs to the readings, and the final project involves creating a wikipedia page, which I found less intimidating than a long literary English paper.
This class was interesting and a very low workload. The grading was generous, and the wiki project was more fun than a paper would have been. The readings were all very interesting, and the weekly responses were usually easy to write.
This class is a great way to fulfil your AIU and in doing so, expand your knowledge of world literature. By reading really interesting books, you'll learn about cultures all around the world and fascinating historical contexts.
A bit more work than you might want from a Gen. Ed., but a phenomenal class with really interesting readings. Very accessible for people from all academic disciplines.
It's a useful introductory course that fulfills many requirements.
Great course. Reasonable workload. You get out of it what you put into it.
The Wiki project is a great substitute to the typical literature paper.
Readings are super interesting and I feel smarter for having taken it, although lecture is really boring.
See my response to the first question.
This class was a great survey of many works of World Literature
This is a wonderful course that allows to read some really amazing books in a fairly relaxed environment.
It's everything you want from a Gen Ed: interesting readings, not too much work and a great learning experience + the Wiki is a lot of fun to do!
I found the lectures to be quite ineffective, for they focused more on history/the context in which the book is written rather than the book itself. I would want the lectures to focus more on close reading/discussion of themes-symbols. However, the course materials are really good. At the end of the course you'll have a brief idea of lots of different literary traditions from all around the world.
This is a good class if you want to read the literature, but expect breadth not depth.
Easy workload, interesting stories, and the wiki was actually fun to do. Definitely do it in partners though (if you're a senior)
This is a great A&I Gen Ed, especially if you're interested in literature. The wikipedia assignment can be a little tedious, but they grade very generously and you can choose to write a final essay instead of completing the wiki. The final is also very easy, and you can do well in this class with a basic understanding of all the texts. That being said, it is somewhat wasteful a course, since the texts chosen are wonderfully rich texts, and it was deeply unsatisfying to look at them so superficially.
This class is brilliant. The professors are brilliant and their passion bursts forth. For an afternoon lecture, you can see their energy wake the rest of us up. The readings are awesome and all about texts that you'll never read on your own. The workload is highly manageable!
I would recommend this class if you have any interest in world literature at all. It was not a difficult class, but we read a lot of really wonderful books. The professors and teaching staff are really passionate about the subject matter and all in all is a really good class to take.
You don't learn as much as you think you will. It sounds cool, but ends up being pretty boring. Would recommend only with reservations. Class really needs to be restructured before I would recommend.
Take this class if you like reading fictions. The two hour lectures can get a bit long once the semester rolls around. But if you get Tony (or really any of the other TF's; they're all good) your section will be engaging and actually interesting. I didn't have to do the reading to keep up with the discussion, but it can build up a lot for the final. But otherwise very little work week to week. Just do your reading, one wiki assignment and a final. No midterm, no papers. It's kind of a gem course actually, if you like literature.
This is a great gen-ed to take. The workload is very reasonable, and there isn't too much writing involved, just a weekly discussion post. The professors are basically world literature superstars, an they've put together an excellent selection of works. I definitely recommend this class!
cool readings that you should approach as leisure reading
Hum 12 is okay for students who have an interest in studying literature at a fairly surface level. The class mainly goes into examining the plot, characters, and historical context. I didn't feel like the course was all that challenging and it didn't make me think all that much about the literature itself. That being said, there were no papers and no midterm so lots of flexibility. You only have weekly discussion entries, one project that you choose the reading for, and the final exam.
You'll read a lot of good books, have one all-nighter, and the rest will be fine.
Interesting readings, good selection of world lit. Section is great but lectures are a little long and boring. Overall solid GenEd.
The works you read in this class are honestly all fantastic, and a must for anyone who wants to be an informed, worldly and cultured citizen. Just by doing the readings, you will have gained more from this course than you would from so many others at Harvard. That said, lectures and section can be quite dry and boring, and there is not much discussion. The course itself is quite underwhelming. The assignments are interesting - the wiki in particular - and not particularly challenging. Overall, it is an easy class, and the readings are great, you just have to be able to survive three hours a week of pretty boring lecture and section.
The class was a lot of fun. In a previous year's Q comment, it said that it was a nice break from the hard science pset classes. I definitely agree with this, but also know that you should still have an interest in world literature to really enjoy this course!
I really enjoyed the readings each week for this class, which was a relatively low-stress one. Also, the professors are effective lecturers and are very enthusiastic about the material.
The readings are awesome. The lectures are not.
Yun is a fantastic TF. The lectures are drawn out and don't really help with your understanding of the work.
