Amazing, amazing class if you're interested in cities, comparative literature, film, or even if you're just looking for a reasonable AI class. Buckler is so sweet and smart and makes the class a real gem.
This was the best class I've ever taken.  It's a new class, so it may be different next year if many more people sign up (our class had six).  However, you will want to do the work because it's fascinating, not because of the grade.  Professor Buckler is incredibly passionate about this subject and leads phenomenal discussions. If you can take this class, and you're willing to put in effort, you will love it.
Excellent intro course to the humanities, and more specifically to the study of cities through film and literature. We were lucky to be the first students to have taken the class; since there were only six of us in the class, we got to interact very closely with Professor Buckler, Mark and Aditya (teaching fellows). This gave much space for everyone to talk and share opinions in class; we all got to know each other well and form a solid relationship. In addition to this, Professor Buckler's knowledge and authentic passion for the subject matter made it a real delight to go to class. Learning how to use Omeka and Neatline for the assignments took some time, but it was worth it--they allowed for what felt a much more comprehensive approach to the topics covered than would have been possible through a traditional essay. By the way, even though the grading isn't harsh, be prepared to devote a large amount of time to this course--there is a considerable amount of readings/films to complete every week, weekly blog entries discussing the readings/films, and biweekly unit assignments; the whole experience is so interesting that you don't realize it, but it ends up amounting to a lot of time.
This course has the potential to change your academic career, and even your life!  Don't miss a chance to take this class with a professor who conveys such warmth and compassion while also leading an exciting and engaging academic experience.  If you have a chance to take part in it with the two teaching fellows who helped during this past semester, Aditya and Mark, they are wonderful and add immeasurably to the course.  Even if not, this course leads you to think in a completely different way about cities, and also about humanity itself.  It leads you to engage in many levels of human creation--literature, film, art, music, technology--to better understand the changing shape of the world.  This course, for me, synthesized everything I love about the humanities.  The work felt less like a burden and more like personal, fulfilling exploration.
Many times this past semester, when I stopped to talk with friends and had to choose parts of my life to share, my go-to life update was the fact that I was taking this class, and how amazing it was. When you take it, it probably won't be under the same conditions (first time it's being offered, had 6 students and 3 teaching staff, was super fun and chill and intimate, provided a free trip to Poland at the end), but it'll probably nonetheless be one of the best classes you'll take here.The content and format of the class is everything you'd expect an ideal humanities class to be. There's a good amount of reading and writing, for sure, but all of it is assigned and evaluated in such a way that is purely, purely meant to inspire you to really think. Weaving between in-depth close readings of passages to broad discussions of urban theory; from reading passages from traditional 19th century novels to learning how to warp and edit digital maps, this class provided a valuable and eye-opening range of learning materials and methods. The amount and quality of feedback was incredible (though maybe that was because of the TFs we had, and the few number of students they had to give feedback for). The readings/films are highly enjoyable. The discussions are well-directed and thoughtful. If you're at all interested in urban studies, film, traveling, history, cultures, or really anything, this course is for you.
