This course offers a great foundation in the humanities, no matter what you ultimately decide to go into. If you have already decided your concentration, the course is a great way to satisfy Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding. The readings are interesting and the topics and issues that they raise will return occasionally in the course.
This class goes BEYOND any you've ever taken before. With scholars to the likes of Professor Bhaba and Sacks, every class is a treat in its own.
Very solid class, particularly for non-humanities concentrators. The teaching staff is great and the workload is very reasonable!
Take it. You won't regret it. It was by far my favorite class throughout the entire semester. The class is small and personal and all of the faculty on board are truly brilliant, thoughtful and insightful. You're tool belt for analyzing literature and various texts will be greatly supplemented in a way you did not and perhaps could not ever expect.
The course readings are phenomenal (even if they are a bit intensive). The teaching staff is amazing. You will be able to approach literature in an entirely new way if you take this course.
If you're thinking about taking this class, DO IT. Homi and Peter make a great teaching team and although the course can be frustrating occasionally (this semester there were some organizational issues but those are hopefully going to be avoided next semester). Discussions are great in seminar and section and it's a manageable workload.
The class has a diverse student body, most of whom are not humanities concentrators, so it is suitable for a Gen-ed requirement, but not necessarily for exploring the humanities. It's not a demanding course, and it doesn't have mid terms or finals which is great.
This class is for people who enjoy reading! Many times, it feels as if you are reading in slow-motion, which allows you to see things and about a text that you have never noticed before. The readings are all very interesting and they are diverse.
Julie and the teaching staff really care about the quality of this course, and you will get out what you put into this class. Even if you put in minimal effort, the field trips for section are still fun!
The Art of Reading truly changed the way I approach every text. In high school English classes, it was common for the teacher to tell the students the "accepted" interpretation of a work of literature, often making students feel that their personal interpretations were wrong. Through the Art of Reading, I now better understand that each reader brings their own experiences, opinions, and perspective, thus creating a unique interpretation. After every class, I felt as if I had really improved intellectually, and I felt very validated as a humanities concentrator. The readings are always fun, interesting, and not too long, and the assignments are inventive and easy. Julie Buckler is one of the most eloquent professors I have had in my years at Harvard.
This class is relaxed. You will do a wide variety of readings, and the assignments are enjoyable, not stressful.
The course is well-organized, with thought-provoking readings and discussions. Perfect for non-concentrators looking for an intro to the Humanities. Truly enjoyed the course.
This was a great class that I enjoyed despite the fact that some units were hard to understand and lectures could get very meta. This class, though, was lacking in diverse literature. We read a lot of Western/European literature, which was a thing I found a bit irritating after some time, so I think adding books, poetry or readings from other literary canons around the world could really enrich the course. The assignments are good, although using Omeka to post essays was at times stressful. Overall, I would recommend as a good intro to Hist&Lit, Comp Lit, and other concentrations dealing with literature.
For Aesthetic & Interpretive Understanding, this is a course that offers students the chance to delve into a plethora of topics while learning a skill set that to help in future encounters with them.
