Great senior class. You learn a lot without having to put in a ton of work
This class is awesome, but make sure that you are interested in the quality of health care in america.  It's a pretty narrow topic.
This course has inspired me to pursue a career in medicine/public health and has armed me with information critical to understanding the state of health care in the US and elsewhere.
Great class! Relatively few assignments and low workload, but a great opportunity to meet some of the leaders in the field of health care quality.
This class is really interesting (especially if you are pre-med or thinking about going into some sort of health-related profession) and you get to hear from some of the leaders in this field. It is also not too difficult with very fair take-home exams (midterm + final). The amount of reading assigned is reasonable (and you can get away with not reading 100% of it). I
This is one of the most interesting courses I have taken at Harvard.  Taught as a lecture series, this course did not have the typical class stresses associated with it (ex. weekly problem sets, etc.), but was an enjoyable, enlightening, and insightful experience throughout.  I would highly recommend this course for anyone interesting in pursuing a career in health care and medicine.
Hands down the best class you will take at Harvard.  If you have ANY interest in health care, either from the economic, policy or medical perspective, this class will open your eyes to the problems facing our system today.
this class is a great introductory level healthcare policy class that features good discussion about many different topics. Its also not too work intensive!
You will learn a lot about the healthcare system you never know, and it's very easy. But it's not really GRIPPING.
This course is truly fabulous, led by teaching staff who are very dedicated. Prof. Slack and his wife are wonderful and really try to get to know students, plus the line-up of lecturers is all-star.  Highly recommend for anyone interested in health policy!
You can get a lot out of this class if you do all the readings and listen carefully to lectures, prepare for section, etc. You will still learn a lot if you just come to lecture!
I would definitely recommend this class to anyone considering medical school, but the course can be overly repetitive.
This is a great class with a phenomenal teaching staff.  I truly learned a lot and would definitely recommend this class to anyone who is interested in health care, especially as a possible career choice.
This class is probably the best class I've ever taken. It is easy on your schedule, plus the professor and teaching staffs are so nice. Take it whether or not you're interested in health care. You won't regret it.
It's the best class I've taken at Harvard hands down.
This course provides the invaluable experience of being able to hear about the largest issues in health care quality from the most distinguished lecturers and experts in their field.
Probably the best course I've taken at Harvard. Dr. Slack is a gem, the lectures are interesting, and the work is completely reasonable (I didn't do much reading except in preparation for section, and that's all you need to do). The lectures were from 4:30-6pm on Tu/Th, which can feel late, but it's completely worth it. Great class.
A very good seminar with minimal work requirements. Viewing the health care system through the quality lens will alter your take on the way we deliver care in this country.
This course addresses an extremely interesting and important topic regarding the current healthcare system. I took the course entirely as an elective and enjoyed it very much. The workload is light and reasonable, and the guest lecturers are worth seeing even outside of a classroom setting. Between the lectures and other assignments, you really get the opportunity to engage with American healthcare.
GHHP 50 was by far one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. As a senior thesis-writer, it was very manageable. The course material is extremely relevant, and it offers a very thorough picture of the current health care system and what needs to be done for effective quality improvement.
THIS IS THE BEST CLASS YOU WILL TAKE AT HARVARD DO IT!!!!
This course was one of the best that I have taken at Harvard. Dr. Jha and Professor Rosenthal do a great job of engaging the students, and the guest lecturers are amazing! It has a very light workload and is incredibly rewarding; a perfect class to take senior year.
This course is a really good overview of the American health care system and its problems.  The course staff is extraordinarily devoted to the students -- I have never taken a class with professors and TFs who were so concerned about ensuring that the students got the most possible out of the class, and it was really wonderful.  This course also gives you fantastic opportunities to meet personally with some pretty well-known and brilliant people in the field of health policy.
if you're a pre-med, you should take this course: it brings up questions that won't really be addressed in med school. If you're interested in learning about the US healthcare system in general, this course only really focuses on quality
You will have one of the best learning experiences in this course. It is a very fun course, the teaching staff is extremely nice, and you will be surprised by how much knowledge you gain from the course. This is a must-take course for anyone thinking about becoming involved with healthcare in their future careers.
So insightful. If you have any interest in health care, this class is fantastic.
I really enjoyed this class. It got me really interested in health policy and healthcare in the US. We had really great discussions in class that brought insight into problems surrounding healthcare quality. I left the class with an appreciation for the difficulties surrounding healthcare quality and how they can be tackled. I got to know the professors and TFs really well and everyone in the class was really passionate about health policy. Fantastic class!
This is easily the BEST CLASS I'VE TAKEN AT HARVARD. All of the faculty put in so much effort to really make this a class FOR US. Having a smaller class filled with people who are enthusiastic about health policy is extremely refreshing because everyone does the work and the TFs aren't out to test little bits of knowledge that we might have forgotten or overlooked, but rather, the assessments encourage us to think more broadly about some of the issues we talk about in class. The TFs are absolutely amazing people who are organized and care so much about their students.  This class will make you a better doctor and patient. Definitely take it if you have any interested in healthcare, health economics, or health policy.
Amazing and enthusiastic instructors! Covers a broad variety of topics in healthcare but will shape the way you view the current system
Why force students to work intensely if the information can be effective conveyed otherwise? This class was easy, but I also learned massive amounts about the healthcare system. Had I expended more effort, I would have learned even more. Amazing diversity of experiences; wish I had taken advantage of more of the optional portions.
This class is incredible. It is everything a Harvard course should be, including engaged teaching staff, fantastic assignments, as well as a great community through coursewide dinners and events.
This is a fantastic class.  If you have any interest in healthcare or issues of health policy, this course will introduce you to the most important ideas and also some of the most important people in the field.  Lectures are a huge highlight, with really cool speakers coming in every week (like Atul Gawande!)  The staff is incredibly supportive and lovely, and the class feels like a family.  The Practicum assignment is also AWESOME.  You should definitely take this class, and it's not overly difficult!
It's an amazing class! If you are at all interested in the health care field, this class is a must!
Take this class.
This is a wonderful course, where the TFs are willing to help you piece together the material and work through the complicated mess that modern American healthcare is.
This is an amazing class if you are lucky enough to win the lottery. It is very low-stress, has a light workload, and you will learn so much about the healthcare system. Though most people don't actually do the readings, they are really interesting and you will get a lot more out of the class if you have time to read.
Very interesting class with dedicated staff and lots of interesting speakers. This class helped me better understand the healthcare system and all its complexities. Fairly painless way of learning more about contemporary debates on the healthcare system.
Any student that is part of the American healthcare system, or has to interact with it, should take this course. It is absolutely essential to understanding what is going on with medicine and to make you realize that it is much more complicated than it seems. This course gives you an incredible chance to meet the experts and the "big cheese" figures in the field, and to interact one-on-one with them. The professors and the TFs care immensely about the course and the students, and try very hard (and successfully!) make the course feel like a family. I am so thankful to have taken this course!
my favorite course at Harvard
Great to course to take if you're interested in learning about all the different aspects to improve the quality of health care. The class though does not teach about the basics of health care so make sure you know that before you take the class. Over the semester, we became really close to each other through the events held outside of class so it's a great way to meet many different professors and professionals in the global health and health policy field. I think it's more beneficial for people who are planning to go to medical school and work in health care after graduation than those who are just looking to learn about health care.
This course was among the best I have taken at Harvard. The material was so engaging and the guest lecturers are often the #1 experts in their fields. Hearing from the people who helped craft some of the major health care policies in this country is such an amazing experience. The course staff is also incredible. They are so supportive and excited to talk and engage with students. The assignments were interesting and not terribly difficult. The workload really wasn't that bad and most importantly it was all interesting material! Definitely a great class to take!!
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard!  The guest speakers can be a hit or miss, but they're pretty much the defining people in whatever they're talking about.  You don't need to go to lecture to do well, but it's be a shameIf you missed them because they're by and large excellent.
This is one of the best classes I've taken in college, not only because of the well-presented material (and great lecturers), but also because of the sincerity with which the professor cares for the class and the students. If this class is ever offered again, I would definitely recommend that you take the course!!
Awesome class, painless, a ton of knowledge.
Dr. Slack is very nice as are the TFs. There were some really nice lecturers and some not so nice ones. But even for the nice ones, it was hard to stay focused the entire time.
This is a great class to provide a comprehensive view of the US healthcare system. It is taught by wonderful faculty, and the students are all passionate and engaged (because of the lottery).
Take this class if you have any interest in the subject!
This is a stress-free easy but extremely useful, important and supportive class. Dr. Slack is one of the most amazing professors you will ever meet on campus. Unfortunately since he will be retiring, I do not know how it will affect the dynamics of the class. However, a different guest speaker is brought in for each lecture and I am sure that the educational component of the class and its overall value will remain the same.
This class if an opportunity to really get to know different aspects of the american healthsystem.  Though some guest speakers were hit or miss, I was very satisfied with the classes.  The class is a very low-stress, fun way to learn about healthcare quality.  I would definitely recommend it.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. If you are interested in health policy or healthcare in any aspect, consider taking this class (if it's offered next year) -- Dr. Slack is the most caring professor and all of the lecturers had something to contribute to the course. Amazing experience, amazing conversations.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Its organization is unique and interesting. The assignments are fair and challenge you to move outside your comfort zone.
Awesome class! It's sad that Dr. Slack is leaving though :(
easily one of my favorite and one of the best-taught classes at harvard. the teaching staff and guest lecturers were all extremely interesting and inspiring - if anything, this class has inspired me to go back on the medical track as well as consider doing work with healthcare policy.
This is a good class to take for senior spring as the workload is very low until the end of the semester. However, I felt like the material was a bit repetitive and I didn't get that much from the course overall.
This class is definitely one of the best classes I've taken here. I'm not sure how good it will be in the future because Dr. Slack will not be teaching it anymore.
This is an amazing class and a terrific learning opportunity - take it, you will not regret it!
TAKE THIS CLASS
Professor Slack and Mrs. Slack care very much about the class, and it definitely shows in their dedication. I would recommend really getting to know him!
This is an awesome class if you are interested in healthcare quality in the US! The teaching staff is extremely invested and enthusiastic, and the array of guest lecturers allows you to hear from a range of experts in the field.
Good, interesting class. Recommended to people who get in through the lottery and want to get a secondary in GHHP.
Fantastic overview of current thinking. You will meet wonderful people and be well supported and fascinated. Low work load, but get an early jump-start on the group project!
This class is great. Super interesting and informative. You get to hear from the top minds in the field about the most pressing problems related to US healthcare.
This class is a relatively undemanding class with interesting lectures that give a broad overview of various healthcare quality topics.  The teaching staff is extremely supportive and dedicated.  Make sure you pay attention and get the most out of it possible.
This class is a gem. The teaching staff are all passionate about teaching and health care quality. Take this class if you have the opportunity!
This class was incredible. Ashish and Bapu really know what they're talking about - they're approachable, entertaining, and help expose students to problems in our healthcare system in an accessible and intriguing manner. I learned so much from this class, and it is definitely one of my absolute favorites here at Harvard. The guest lecturers were amazing, and it's so cool to get to learn from people who hold such different perspectives on the problems in healthcare and each of whom is an expert in his/her field.
Fun class!  Looked forward to exciting lectures and stimulating readings. Group project was super fun, made writing the paper doable.  Great helpful sections.
I thought this class was going to be super hard, but decided to take it anyway out of genuine interest in the subject. Turns out, it wasn't super hard, but was super super rewarding. The different guest lectures introduce you to issues you never would have thought of on your own and the TFs and Profs are genuinely interested in their students - they want to see you do well, in the course, and afterwards
There are very interesting and important topics discussed in class! Keep in mind that if it is taught with 40 students again, it is difficult to participate and a lot of class time is spent answering people's questions. This may or may not be your preferred learning style.
Professors are incredible!  Feel free to reach out to them
This course is a very interesting and practical introduction to the health care system. You get in what you put into the course. The assignments and sections are all designed for you to learn more and reflect on what we have learned. While the course at the end (poster AND paper) seems too much, it isn't too difficult if you manage time wisely. There are amazing speakers who were all leaders in their fields. The only part that I felt was weak was the fact that they prided themselves on forming a community in the course but I don't think it happened.
The teaching team is amazing and they will expose you to the biggest debates in American healthcare. Try to take it as a junior, this class is filled with good thesis questions! You definitely do not have to be pre-med or a GHHP secondary. This class is unique in that everything you discuss in a current debate and it's an area that I feel we don't give much attention to at the college. Definitely a unique intellectual experience you don't want to miss.
You must lottery this class! There is none other like it - the guest lecturers are all experts in their fields, just like Ashish and Bhapu are. The course is really geared towards your learning as much as you can about as many topics related to healthcare quality as possible. There are no assignments throughout the year, just a midterm exam and final paper/poster/presentation and exam. (Yes, it's a little backloaded.)
Fantastic class to take if you are interested in US health care system! The guest speakers are all experts in their fields and it is just amazing to be able to directly ask them questions and hear their thoughts. The class is also extremely well organized and you will be able to learn a ton from the class.
I highly recommend this course. It did an excellent job giving us a broad overview of the quality improvement landscape in health care. The guest lecturers are often (albeit not always) very good and very interesting, the TFs are very good,  and both Ashish and Bapu (professors) are *excellent*learning from them was a continual pleasure, and I look forward to keeping in touch with both of them in my future health care career. This class also has a strong community element to it, and I got to know several of my excellent classmates. This class gathers together a 30+ person sample of Harvards strongest GHHP and GHHP-interested students, and its a good opportunity to meet them.
This is a good class to get a nice overview of all the problems with our healthcare system, but it pretty much stays at a bird's-eye level and doesn't get very in-depth.  So don't expect any conversations on how we can challenge the system.  You will hear both sides, but there won't be very detailed arguments presented.  It was kind of a let down, but still learned a lot for sure.
This has by far been my favorite course at Harvard. The teachers are passionate and really care about the students. There are guest lecturers that visit almost weekly who are in the forefront of their field. It is clear that the staff put so much effort into making the course amazing and can be felt. This course will make you wish every Harvard course was run this way. Another plus about the class is that my fellow students were so passionate and interested in the topic of healthcare that the class was never dull.
Easily the best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Lottery as many times as you can! There's nothing else like it. Course was amazing.
TAKE THIS COURSE. Well organized (the lectures given by Prof. Jha and Jena, the amazing guest lecturers and the weekly sections were all engaging and interesting). Very low workload (except for final group project) and overall just an amazing course. Such an interesting topic, that will effect us all at some point in our lives.
Goes without said, this course is amazing! The professors are amazing. The TFs are amazing. The speakers are amazing. The readings and assignments are quite intellectually stimulating.
This class will be one of those classes that you will remember in 50 years. The course staff is phenomenal and the material is highly relevant and excellently taught.
TAKE THIS CLASS. I tried to lottery into it my sophomore year, didnt get it, and then tried again this year and got it. If you get lotteried in you DEFINITELY should take this class. I learned so much and the professors are absolutely amazing--so much fun, so brilliant, so accessible. The TFs are SO invested in you and in the class. Its definitely the most special class that I'll take at Harvard
Best course at Harvard. We really contended with complex issues and tried to get to the bottom of them. The lectures were always entertaining, the readings were short enough that you could actually do them (like when has that ever happened!), the assignments were very reasonable, the final project was compelling. This class hooked me into healthcare. Only take it if you really are passionate about the issues with our healthcare today. It is a very manageable workload.
This a great course. If you are lucky enough to get in through the lottery, take it! You will learn a lot and have insanely talented, diverse, knowledgable lecturers throughout the semester.
An outstanding panel of guest lecturers you'd be hard-pressed to find anywhere else. Low-stress but high-yield in terms of the insights you gain from this course.
This class was an absolute joy, and if you want to learn about how the American health care system operates and can be improved, definitely take it. Virtually every lecture is taught by a different leader in the health care industry who talks about different strategies for health care reform and quality improvement.
Great course. Do the readings.
I had very high expectations for this class from previous Q-guide evaluations. The class is great if you are interested in just hearing from guest lecturers every day (the professors only really lecture maybe 3 times over the semester). I thought the class would be more of a community, but I would say that most students don't get to know the professors nor the other students that well. That said, the guest lectures are great, the assignments are fair, and the teaching staff is very nice.
This class is great. Not too demanding but you learn a ton! I enjoyed it.
It's a great class! You have a good chance of getting in as a junior or senior if you are GHHP secondary, and it's a great opportunity to meet students who share the same passions!
This course is one of the only ones at Harvard which covers healthcare so extensively. The lectures are a little bit scattered due to the nature of having multiple guest speakers, and the themes can get quite repetitive (systems are important, errors happen, healthcare is complicated), but if you pay attention to the nuances, you can learn a LOT about healthcare. It's also a huge privilege to get to hear many of these people speak, as they are luminaries in their various fields.
Anyone who is lucky to lottery into this course should take full advantage of the resources, support and all around amazing learning environment to tackle one of the hardest problems of our time.
Take this course if you get in! The wealth of information you will be taught alone is reason to take this course. On top of that, you are taught by Prof. Jha and Prof. Rosenthal, two leading experts in healthcare policy with a fantastic lineup of guest lecturers every week. Everyone, whether or not they are going into the healthcare field, will benefit from studying the US healthcare system to this depth.
Lottery into this class as soon as you can and as often as you can so hopefully you can get into it! This class is especially great for people who want to go into health care without going to medical school because we got to see a variety of lecturers who aren't doctors and see the work that they do.
This is an amazing course with an amazing and caring teaching staff. You are exposed to a field of health care that most students don't get to experience at the undergraduate level, and it really opens your eyes to the exciting possibilities of quality improvement and health policy. The guest lecturers are all fantastic, but Professor Jha and Rosenthal are by far some of the most engaging and interesting and just overall awesome people to listen to!
It's great for people who want to get a good sense of the general problems in health care system. There are lots of premeds in the class, but fear not the health care system needs to be improved with the help of various disciplines.
great class that covers diverse topics
Take this class if you can get the lottery! You will get to hear the insider view on the quality problems in the U.S. directly from well-known leaders in the field, and you will become very knowledgeable about quality issues in the U.S. healthcare. The course staff is very supportive and super friendly, and there are many opportunities to get to know well not only the teaching staff but also your fellow classmates. You won't regret taking it!
Amazing class. Guest lecturers for pretty much every lecture, and they are amazingly relevant and important people who give you really interesting insight. Both professors are awesome.
TAKE THIS CLASS! literally the best class i've taken at harvard. it will help you shape your career path or will at least enable you to understand America's absurdly complex health care system. everyone should take this class, it isn't tailored to premed people. it helps people see that there are public health careers beyond being a doctor. it does have a slight "public health networking" feel, but that is fantastic if you're interested in the field and regardless everyone should know more about our health care system. the course staff is incredible and so dedicated. ashley is the sweetest and so are the professors. the guest lecturers you will see are unreal. this is a quintessential "this class could only happen at harvard". It is also a great senior spring class, especially if you're writing a thesis.
This year, the class was filled with pre-med students, who certainly dominated conversations and forced conversations to center around medical knowledge instead of the greater picture. Students like me in the social sciences who have a passion for global health could not always relate. The readings that were studies were not necessarily relevant, but be sure to pay attention in section because that's where you get the better picture. Also, Hummy is the best TF ever!! She is very understanding of the student perspective and is always available for help and advice on life.
Awesome class! It's a small seminar-style class, which although means that some people will not make the lottery, makes for great discussions. Opens your eyes to the many different approaches people are taking to healthcare quality, from researchers in academia to leaders of hospital systems and more. Great for anyone with an interest in health quality!
Great speakers! You won't find this lecture line-up anywhere else at Harvard, and in the whole country for that matter.
Amazing survey of varying topics related to healthcare. The readings are thought-provoking, and the lecturers are rock stars in their fields.
It's a fantastic course that exposes you to the major themes in health care policy. By the end of it, you will feel like you have a solid foundation into the challenges in health care we face in America. I absolutely loved that we had dinners with guest lecturers after class, and the faculty goes out of its way to make the class feel like a family. It's an amazing way to get to know really important people in the field, engage in interesting conversations with other students who are passionate about health care (since it's lotteried, everyone in the class wants to be there), and to further your passion within the field with the final research project.
This class is incredible, one of the best that I've taken at Harvard.
This is the ideal class in my opinion - low workload but very intellectually stimulating. You will learn a lot about health policy and the challenges affecting the health care system. Two take home exams make you put the pieces together in a very logical way. Doing the reading week to week is not necessary but will be useful to incorporate in your take home exams.
This is a great course. The teaching staff are wonderful, you learn a fair bit, and its not stressful. Don't turn down the option of taking it if you're lucky enough to be lotteried in!
This course is amazing and lives up to the hype. I did not know anything about the quality of healthcare in America, but now feel like I could actively engage in the healthcare world after taking this course. It also opened my eyes to all of the problems in healthcare in our country and ways to hopefully improve it.
Definitely recommend this course. Every single lecture is amazing, and there are so many guest lecturers. All the topics are so interesting, and I learned SO much about healthcare in the US. Also, section does not feel like a waste of time, like most sections do at Harvard. The professors are great, and the TFs are great. The readings and assignments are easy. Only take this course if you're interested in healthcare because if you're not interested in healthcare, you will not like it and you'll be taking a spot away from another person who really wants to take it because it's such an amazing course.
This is by far my favorite course at Harvard ever (2nd semester senior), I learned an incredible deal about the healthcare system and can now engage with news articles and friends on all these topics. The class also shaped and focused my research interests, which will shape my work in medical school this fall. Cannot recommend this class more, if you are a freshman or sophomore don't even try they won't have space for you but try to lottery at all costs junior and senior years
GHHP 50 is an amazing class. It has made me interested in getting a PhD in Economics to study health policy/economics.
This class is incredible, definitely lottery for it and take it if you're lucky enough to get it! You literally get the professionals who make up the field of Public Health come in to talk to you. You learn so much without having an overload of work. This class has inspired me to the immense impact public health research can have on improving health. It is a class accessible to anyone interested in the intersection of politics, policy, and health, and is one of those classes that remind you why you came to Harvard to get an education.
This class is incredible! Take it if you're one of the lucky few!
This course is fantastic. The material is so relevant and interesting. Lots of guest lectures who were great.
Super easy and pretty interesting. Easy A
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard- would wholeheartedly recommend to anyone even mildly interested in health systems or medicine. Bapu and Ashish and an amazing and engaging team!
I went into this class with high expectations because it had such amazing q scores, but I unfortunately don't think i enjoyed it as much as I wish I could. I found some lectures to be really interesting (Atul Gawande, Sherry Glied, etc) but others I found were very dry or not very relevant. I found that those lectures I didn't like had a huge econ focus, and as somebody who doesn't have a background in econ, I found it really difficult to follow. I also think that because the course is structured to accommodate visiting speakers, it doesn't follow a linear guideline, which made it very difficult for me to connect different parts of the material together. Obviously Ashish and Bapu are well established and experts in what they are doing, but I sometimes felt like the class was a bit of male-driven. Guys participated noticeably more than girls and I SEVERELY doubt that it's because they knew more. I think that Ashish and Bapu could do a better job of calling on people that aren't the same three or four individuals that are always participating to make discussion more diverse. My savior in this class was Michael Anne, who made all the material completely digestible and was always very open about meeting with students for office hours and helping us work through the material. The final project was actually very fun and I thought I learned a great deal through that process.
Incredible class, cannot recommend enough. Pretty much a once in a lifetime opportunity to hear from some of the biggest names in healthcare policy in one whirlwind semester. Incredibly rewarding.
Somewhat one-sided perspective on many major healthcare issues but amazing guest lecturers and a cool experience overall
This is a course you could only find at Harvard. Get to know Bapu- he's a great thinker and fast friend.
Extremely interesting class, great for all students
Take this course! It was a fantastic way to learn more about health care policy in the U.S. The class at times felt a bit disorganized but overall, it was a really great experience.
This class is amazing and has amazing speakers. It is a must take class.
Life changing course if you want to go into the health industry!! MUST take before you graduate. Best class I've taken at Harvard, and I've taken some gems - USW 35, GHHP 60, etc.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. The professors and TFs are excellent and very reasonable. I highly recommend this class.
If you get in, take it!!!
This was the best class I've taken while at Harvard. To have the chance to learn from not only Bapu and Ashish but also some of the leaders in the medical and health policy fields is a true gift that is only possible if you take this class. Lottery for this class over and over again!!! It is SO WORTH IT
This class can change your life and inspire you
This course was a wonderful, immersive exploration of the various aspects U.S. healthcare, technology, and policy that affect healthcare quality throughout the country. There are only a few assignments throughout the semester, so most of your time is spent actually enjoying learning about the content!
This class lives up to its reputation. Unlike others, I had not heard of GHP50 until my final year at Harvard, but was able to lottery in. You should try to get into this class as many times as it takes. As a pre-med student this course is invaluable, but even if you are not, it is still incredibly applicable, and the speakers they bring in are ridiculously good. Come in with an open mind because this class doesn't really leave you with concrete answers. You're just given better grounds to form your own opinion.
This was, by far, my favorite class that I have ever taken. You will seriously regret not taking it.
The guest lectures are truly amazing and so diverse.
Easily one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Completely revolutionized my view of health care
If you are interested in a career in health care, this will be the best and most informative course you can take at Harvard.
This is a great chance to gain broad exposure to a range of topics and issues in the improvement of healthcare quality in the United States. Foundation for understanding the quality movement is laid by Ashish and Bapu, the lead professors, and then built upon by a series of guest lecturers who are generally pretty strong. This class is really about building a community of students interested in this issue, and it's a special opportunity to learn in this environment  do it!
This is a great course that anyone who is interested in healthcare or medicine should take before leaving Harvard. The lecturers are fantastic and the course exposes you not only to issues of quality in U.S. healthcare, but also to a wide variety of the suggestions that have been proposed to improve the healthcare system. You leave with a well-informed and balanced view of the challenges ahead and ways to move forward.
You will learn a ton in this class without feeling unreasonably burdened. Try to do the reading! It will add to your absorption of the material and lectures tremendously.
A wonderful, extremely informative low stakes course. With an all-star faculty to begin with, the syllabus is full of tremendous guest lecturers as well.
Easy class, not much work. Great professors, who really take time to get to know class. We have guest lectures almost every time and they are always pretty great.
Take this class, will be an eye-opening experience especially if you're interested in healthcare! Great chance to listen to some really key leaders in the field and to two great profs/MDs!
Perhaps the best course I've taken at Harvard. The teaching staff is incredible, and the material is very interesting. Take this course!
If you are a GHHP secondary or want to be fluent in US health care policy. TAKE THIS CLASS. It's like US health care policy bootcamp. You cover so much ground and meet AMAZING guest lecturers. The professors and TFs also truly care about your success and are really enjoyable people.
low workload, good lectures, staff puts a lot of effort into making this an engaging course
You must take GHHP 50 if you're lucky enough to win the lottery! It is one of the best classes at Harvard. The professors and guest lecturers are so passionate about teaching their students about the field of health care policy, which most students have not yet come across in college. You'll leave the class knowing a ton about this subject and feeling excited to make some change in the medical world.
A very eye opening class!
take this class! if you're at all interested in health care, this will be the most helpful class in learning about the different ways you can enter the healthcare space. and if you don't want to go into health care, this class will still be super interesting and teach you abut a topic thats relevant to everyone's life.
Awesome class! Take it!
Take this class, you won't regret it.
This class is one of the best that I've taken at Harvard. The professors are rockstars in their field and are very nice and accessible. And the guest lectures are all taught by superstars in their respective field. This is one of those classes where it can only happen at Harvard. I would always see descriptions like "X class changed my life and was the best class I have ever taken" and roll my eyes. But looking back, I can actually understand those feelings. The teaching staff is amazing, and Bapu and Ashish are phenomenal mentors. Taking this class helped me get a job after college (and I wasn't even thinking about doing research in healthcare policy before the semester)
Incredible course. Ashish and Bapu are such engaging lecturers and they foster great discussions and considerations of the different sides on a lot of important issues. By the end of this course, I just want both of them to run our healthcare system. If you get through the lottery, don't pass it up. It's one of the best courses at Harvard
This class is my favorite class I have ever taken at Harvard. You learn from the best of the best, and everyone is so engaged the entire time. Everything about this course is fabulous, and it further reinforced my love for health policy and made me even more confident in deciding that is what I want to pursue. TAKE THIS CLASS
This is the best class I've taken. The teaching staff and the lecturers they bring in are amazing. This class should be mandatory for anyone with any interest in healthcare or policy. I'm so glad I got to take it before graduating.
This class was a great way to be exposed to the problems of health care such that you are motivated to go out and change the world.
