TAKE THIS COURSE. Don't think--just enroll. It is SO good. Hands down my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. You learn SO MUCH, but you don't have to stress about the time commitment.
You will truly learn so much in this course from two INCREDIBLE professors!!
Definitely do the simulation! It's totally the most transformative experience.
This was the most incredible class I have ever taken! I felt like a sponge soaking up information every single time I was with the class. The professors are incredibly engaging and very personally involved in the class. The relationships formed with Professors Kayden and VanRooyen as well as Kelsey and Tayeisha are not ones you find at Harvard otherwise. This course really changed the way that I view humanitarian aid and the conflicts and nuances that arise within that kind of work/
A lot of the homework assignments are busy work, which is extremely frustrating at times. It becomes a game of how many words you can shorten and cut out to fit into the 300 word limit. The class is extremely interesting and you learn about humanitarian aid from two professors who have participated in the field themselves. There refugee crisis simulation is a really unique experience only available to Harvard students. This was the highlight of the class. However, the format of the class with the weekly homework assignments gets very repetitive at times. The grading system is also very frustrating and seemingly arbitrary. It also pits the class against one another and fosters a very competitive environment in an already competitive school. The class is seemingly graded on a grede-depression system as most people get 8's as the average, and only if you do extremely well and better than your classmates will you get a 9 or 10 on homework. II found it ironic that a class focusing on building teamwork and team skills to help other people in need during a natural disaster would want team members pitted against one another, focusing on getting the best grade and being above average of everyone else in the class.
This course has some high highs and low lows. This course helps fill a hole in the Harvard curriculum that is very badly needed with regards to human rights and humanitarian studies. You did learn an amazing amount about how to practically become an effective humanitarian, learning first hand from very experienced staff (and guest speakers!) as well as participate in an end of semester simulation of a refugee crisis in the woods of Andover. In terms of lows, there are so many small assignments that it is very easy to forget to complete all of them (quiz, fuzziest point, surveys, etc). Additionally, grading felt incredibly arbitrary, especially with an "algorithm" comes up with your grade and in which you are graded on a scale of 1 to 7 (no one will ever get a 7).
A great opportunity to have incredible professors and learn about humanitarian work.
This is an incredible course. You must take it during your time at Harvard. It has been my favorite course here and defined my experience this semester. The teaching staff is incredible and inspirational. The material you learn is so meaningful and important to know for the real world. It is a real global health class, particularly pertaining to this worlds disasters and refugee crises, and teaches things everyone should learn about delivery of humanitarian aid, but also how to understand it and think about it in its more complex context.TAKE THE COURSE. Literally the highlight of my year. Also , Mike and Stephanie are such incredible people who have amazing experiences and are very worth getting to know! You really develop a relationship with them and the rest of the class by the end of the semester, and its great.
This course is an extraordinary chance to learn about the humanitarian field with professors who are scholars AND do this work on the front lineDr. VanRooyen and Dr. Kayden are both great. The simulation is a unique chance to participate in training humanitarians from Harvard grad schools and all over the worlda unique form of learning not to be missed in your time at Harvard!!! The course is graded on a curve but most students will receive grades of A/A- ; simply something to be aware of. Grateful to have learned more about a field that is very much still growing and changing. You should not hesitate to enroll if you get the lottery because the material and the instructors are simply so great.
The instructors are incredibly knowledgeable experts in the field and provide incredible insight into humanitarian work. Definitely get to know them outside of class if you can. Sometimes the assignments can seem a little like busy work just to test if you've read the material, but I enjoyed learning the technical details about case studies, humanitarian law, etc. so I didn't mind so much. It would be nice if the TFs were a little more consistent in providing feedback on homework. Overall, excellent class and I am SO GLAD I took it.
I would recommend this course for any student interested in refugee concerns. The simulation is particularly interesting and a chance to learn more about field work on the ground.
Great class to take if you're interested in learning more about the humanitarian response. This class will make you feel very confident about thinking about the material in new ways while gaining some exposure to workers in the field.
This course does require short responses and readings each week, but nothing that is particularly time consuming. The professors of this course are total rock stars and have a ton of experience in the field. It is a very unique course at Harvard, and would definitely recommend. Only problem is that grading in the course seems kind of subjective and unclear, which hopefully will be corrected for next year!
This class is a wonderful primer to the world of humanitarian work, with people who have done extensive work in the field.
GHHP 70 was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Not only is the material extremely engaging for anyone interested in global/public health, but the professors have a wealth of knowledge and field experience which gives you an inside look on what it's like to be a humanitarian worker. I felt like the teaching staff really cared about me and my progress in the class, they are generous with their time, and the in-class applications of the learned material was extremely helpful and engaging.
The professors have amazing field experience with humanitarian crises across the globe, which added a lot to class discussions. However, the course content was very much political, technical and logistical, which is not what I was anticipating.  I had been hoping for more about the refugee experience from a social and anthropological perspective. This class is largely about macro-level issues, and was interesting, but not exactly what I had hoped for.
This is definitely an interesting class that provides a unique perspective. Don't be scared away by the simulation - it ends up being an interesting experience.
The course material is superbly interesting nature. The simulation at the end is so very unique and eye-opening. Definitely take this course if you have any interest in learning about humanitarian work.
The simulation will blow your mind. There is no where else you can get the opportunity to learn about humanitarian work, in practice.
This is the worst class I ever took. It was definitely a very poor decision to take it as an elective senior spring. Don't be misled by the exciting class during shopping week, the rest of it is nothing like that. The weekly responses are boring assignments to make sure you do the readings. You learn everything from those and the class itself does not add anything. There is also no transparency about grades. They don't give feedback on what you did wrong and the grading is quite arbitrary. The lecturers clearly don't know how to conduct an undergraduate liberal arts class. A total disappointment.
This is an interesting class, but has its problems. The two professors are obviously knowledgeable and fascinating. The simulation was a great exercise for getting to know actual humanitarians. However, the course overall felt dry. Discussion was rarely encouraged. Additionally, the assignments were frustrating and it felt like a high school course at times. The grading in particular felt arbitrary and feedback was almost non-existent. Hopefully the course improves as the teaching staff acclimates to undergraduate education.
This is a great course. It may take a bit of patients but you definitely get a small feel for what humanitarian work looks like. The professors are pretty cool too!
If you want to take a class on humanitarian aid with people who've literally been on the battle field, this is it.
Cool class. Not a ton of time, but you learn a lot and get to understand the world more. Would be cautious of the viewpoints put forth - interesting the lack of diversity in teaching staff. Even so, very interesting material, especially if you want to work with this stuff in the future.
Unless the grading/assignment scheme is revised, this course may be a bit annoying. However, I had an incredible experience and learned a tremendous amount.
I think that is course is great in terms of the course material and the simulation is so fun where you meet so many great people that work in this field. Even if you aren't directly interested in humanitarian work, you should take this class if you want to work in any global NGOs or international development work. The workload but definitely low but I would recommend this class with reservations due to the way they grade assignments. Their grading isn't intuitive or predictable at all and they are pretty harsh. I understand that this is their first time teaching undergrads so I think that they aren't sure how to evaluate our work since they are use to working with people who are working in the field directly. Maybe give them a couple of years to let them work out the system and expectations. But this could easily be one the best courses at Harvard one day.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard- 2 incredibly knowledgeable professors who can speak about content that they actually lived on the ground. Invaluable opportunity
If you want to take a class that is very engaging with professors who have invaluable experience in the field, take this class.
This is one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. I felt every reading, assignment, and lecture was meaningful and added something to our understanding of humanitarian crises. The course was organized clearly and very well. The professor are not only inspiring, interesting, and intelligent, but funny, open, genuinely caring and create a collegial environment in class. Being able to participate in the simulation was a very valuable experience, and though we participated as volunteers, I had the opportunity learn and reflect a lot on what it means to give good humanitarian aid and treat people with dignity. These lessons and skills are valuable beyond the context of the class and humanitarian aid as well. This was the course's first run so understandably there were hiccups- just as there are in any new course. There may have been misunderstandings about assignments and course structure with some students but I thought the course was exceptionally well run especially as a new course. I also have a great appreciation for how responsive the course faculty and staff were to ongoing student feedback throughout the course. Overall, I would recommend this course to anyone with an interest in humanitarian matters. The course goes beyond the academic and is refreshingly practical and grounded in contrast to many classes at Harvard that though they deal with matters of human dignity and aid, are very esoteric. I learned practical things about the humanitarian framework as well as learned about professions in the humanitarian field. This class is definitely unique and unlike any other I've taken at Harvard and I'm so glad i got to be a part of it.
