Prof. Guzeldere is great.  Class is casual but gives you an opportunity to think about really interesting questions (if you're interested).  Highly recommended.
This class is so much fun and really engages students with interesting and thought provoking questions. Definitely take it if you enjoy good discussion and engaging teaching.
This class was new when I took it. Professor Guzeldere is wonderful. He is the most humble and kind genius I've ever met. If you are interested in Philosophy of Mind, this is a great chance to discuss the subject. You will not improve your writing in this course and you will not do very much work at all in this course. It's a bit like a graded Freshman Seminar.
Guven is awesome; a comprehensive introduction to the topic, with very little work.
Really interesting subject matter. The class was small, which gave it a nice seminar-type feel. That being said, the professor was difficult to reach out to and communicate with, and the class presentation was somewhat haphazard.
Fantastic course, though you'll end up seeing far more philosophy of the mind than of psychology.
It was a fine course, but it really is a course on philosophy of the mind.  We also had very cyclical conversations, which became tiring after awhile.  But the conversations could be pretty good.
This course is fascinating, fun, hardly any work (compared to other classes), and you will learn a lot. Next year it might be a lecture, but the seminar setting this year made it feel like the best freshman seminars are supposed to feel, which I think was invaluable. The readings were all intriguing and had a lot to teach, though they felt somewhat watered-down and one-sided at times. Perhaps there will be more in the future or Dr. Guzeldere will post more optional readings. I learned the most from and did the most thinking with other classmates, though, either by reading blog posts or in preparation for the debates, which were a lot of fun. We ate Turkish food at Dr. Guzelderes house and generally kicked it, but also got to argue points that may have been left out over the semester, with more at stake than there ever was during class. The workload is totally manageable, with semi-weekly blog posts, one debate, a 6-page final paper, and one midterm. These all contributed well to my learning, and I felt like there could have even been more to do. The main downside of the course is that Dr. Guzeldere was not very responsive overall, never reacting to our blog posts and not giving us much feedback on our midterms (which were almost entirely essay-based). Also, class time was always too short, as we always had more to say, more to debate, more to cover, though this could be seen as a testament to the content and style of the class. All in all, take this class if you have any interest in any part of the Mind/Brain/Behavior side of things, if you need an less-demanding course, or if you want to get to know classmates. You will learn a lot, get to know people, and have a stress-free workload in the meantime. It was a big contributor to my happiness this semester.
You will not find another course that is better taught, more engaging, or accessible than this one.
It's easy. Do nothing, don't show up, and still do well
It brings you out of your comfort zone but it's worth it!
I would say that this is a great Philosophy class regardless of if you've taken Philosophy before; lots of interesting discussions and lectures.
This is a super easy fourth class! Interesting, not too much work, and lots of athletes took it with me... not saying anything bad about athletes.
Great material in this class!
This class is great if you have never taken a philosophy or psychology course.  Some very interesting topics are discussed and require deep thinking and insightful discussions.
This is an awesome, straightforward, and relatively easy course. The content you will study and debate is all incredibly interesting, from whether strong artificial intelligence is possible to whether science is able to explain everything about mental states or not.
Not a very high workload but it's hard to stay engaged with the subject matter.
Take this class.
This is an easy and interesting class. Make of it what you will.
Take this class! It's so interesting, and the professor is great! Perfect class for an elective
This class is a great for two reasons: 1 You learn really cool things about philosophy of mind and 2 you get to see the intersection of science and philosophy in a neat and compelling way.
The readings were interesting, the lectures were engaging, and, most of all, the workload was very manageable. Not much more you could ask for if you are looking for a fun elective.
It is a fun, interesting class
This class was awesome. Paul, my TF, was fantastic and made the course material very clear. The lectures were somewhat interesting, even though a lot of material was repeated lecture-to-lecture. Philosophy of Mind turned out to be a very stimulating topic, especially the section on artificial intelligence. Take this class if you are looking for a very manageable elective with interesting subject matter.
This is an awesome course with great teachers and the material will most definitely make an impact on your thinking.
This a class that brings up many interesting questions about life that you do not usually think about.
It's an easy course, but it's also insightful.  For my first philosophy class, it was a very accessible introduction.  Take it if you're not quite sure you'd like to continue pursuing philosophy.
Interesting class, very abstract
This is a great place to get an introduction to the mind/brain problem and many of the big ideas in the field.  It is more psychology than philosophy in terms of material and approach, but still very interesting.
This course is a great class, whether you are a philosophy concentrator or you are just taking this as an elective. The readings are not long and are very interesting. The only work for this class is a weekly response paper, a midterm, and then a final project and final paper. For the final project, make sure you are in a good group. The midterm exam is not difficult, though some of the True/False can be a bit tricky, so make sure you pay attention to concepts from lecture and the readings. Also, the final paper isn't long, and if Paul is your section leader, he gives great feedback and help.
It's a fun course and if you are a science person wanting to explore philosophy this is a good course for you. If you are a philosophy major, it's going to be very basic but still the questions are some of the most interesting in philosophy and Guzan brings an interesting and different approach to philosophy.
This is a great class if you're interested in the brain/mind, and don't have much background in philosophy. It's an intro level course, so it moves pretty slowly at first, but I liked this pace because it made it easy to keep up with the work load. Interesting material, pretty gem-y; definitely recommend.
Take it as a gentle introduction to philosophy.
If you are interested in the mind, philosophy, or psychology then this is a great course to take and I would recommend it.
Professor Guzeldere is one of my favorite lecturers. The class is thrilling!
This class is minimal work and difficulty yet it is so incredibly interesting. If you really buy into the debates and topics of the course you will learn a lot. The grading and assignments are fair and expectations are laid down from the start, no surprises. I highly recommend this class and I highly recommend this professor. The section component was my favorite as we debated the different topics discussed every week in an open format.
Good course. Very low workload. Interesting material. Relatively easy, especially coming from someone who has never taken a philosophy course before.
there is not a lot of work, but pay attention because the material is actually very thought-provoking and Guven is the man.
Very interesting topics, light workload, great TFs.
This is a pretty fun and light class, but there's not much feedback and it's not super rigorous in terms of philosophy.
The exam and work for this class is highly manageable, but you should very much pay attention to specific issues or areas of interest to you. This personal connection is important to getting the most out of the class.
Pretty easy class that introduces you to interesting concepts in philosophy of mind. Good if you're looking for a chill elective, but it is not representative of typical philosophy classes at Harvard.
This is one of the classes you should definitely take while at Harvard. It is a very interesting topic and the material covered actually comes up in a lot of places you might not even expect it to. Guven is a great professor and the workload is very little, so if you are at all interested in the mind, definitely take this.
Guven is a homie. A lengend. A god. The course material is super interesting, the course work load is very manageable, and Guven is a homie.
Biggest gem at Harvard. Take this class.
Great class on interesting topics. Guven is an amazing professor who is caring and willing to provide feedback and help if you're actively seeking it.
Guven is a great lecturer and really cares about his students' learning.  Shantia is probably the best TF you can find.  So the teaching staff couldn't be any better for someone interesting in philosophy of mind/psychology but who hasn't taken any philosophy before.  Not too much work, but you can definitely get a lot of knowledge out of this course regardless!  I always looked forward to coming to class, and highly recommend it even as just a fascinating elective!
This is a great course to those with broad interests in psychology and philosophy. Guven is an absolutely phenomenal lecturer, extremely fair, and the work load is completely manageable. I highly recommend this course to anyone looking for an easy, interesting class that allows them to explore their own ideas.
Very cool class that will open your mind to the mind and teach you to think like a philosopher.
Keep an open mind about all viewpoints, seriously
The professor and teaching fellow really care about every student's understanding of the material and success in the class and outside of it.  They are very approachable.  In addition, this is a very good class if you want an introduction to philosophy.
Guven is awesome and so is Shantia!
You'll learn interesting topics in this class, all the while not having too much reading (at all)! Perfect duo.
good 4th class
Enjoy your time. This class is interesting, and doesn't require a large amount of work.
A really great class! I took it because I was interested in both philosophy and psychology but hadn't studied much of both, and I've walked away like I've learned loads about each. The topics are interesting enough that studying about them/writing about them doesn't really feel like very much work, even though you will be learning philosophical methods of argumentation that I'm sure are very helpful to know. I would only reccommend not taking this course if you're the kind of person who truly can't stand open-ended questions and uncertainty, because this class is more about devising different ways to think about certain questions and deciding which questions are important than it is about answering them (although you do get to try to do that in your final paper).
Such a wonderful class. Professors are so nice and approachable. Guven and shantia really care about their students. I have no background in philosophy but I loved this
This class was really boring. I feel that if the class had been offered in tutorial form like it has in the past, it may have been better. But the class was too big to really ask any questions, and the topics on the whole was not what I was expecting.  With that said, it was pretty easy.
Not a huge course load and you learn a ton of interesting things.
Guven is brilliant and articulate, but occasionally he gets lost on tangents. Class would benefit from more organization in presentation, but overall it's pretty interesting, low workload, and pretty easy.
Extremely easy.
Good class, make sure to do the readings, they're short and interesting though!
This class is extremely boring and I didn't get much out of going to class/section but the material is interesting and makes you think about your life and its relation to it.
This class is so great. Definitely an unexpected gem.
Not a very rewarding class. Too superficial a treatment of the material.
very interesting class, good intro to philosophy
Great class to take to balance out your schedule. It's interesting and very manageable
pretty easy but really interesting class- real gem!!!!
It seems Harvard classes have a trade-off between rewarding and difficult.  This class falls on the "very easy, but not that rewarding" part of the spectrum.  The subject matter is very interesting (or at least the first half is--I found the section on different theories of conciousness much more interesting than the section on other minds), but the class doesn't expect enough of its students to dive very deep into any of the ideas that it covers, or really require any serious thought.
Awesome class.
Dr. Guzeldere is a great lecturer, and the class has a really good mix of assignments. I would absolutely recommend this class to anyone interested in philosophy, psychology, or any aspect of the mind in general.  The second half of the class has a great focus on applications of what we learned in the first half - learning about animal cognition and artificial intelligence was SUPER interesting. Take this class!!!
This is a good class if you're interested in minds, the brain, the self, and behavior. There are some big questions here, and it's a good class if you're okay with not getting all the answers.
Very workable course load.
It is a fun and relaxed class where you can get a taste of philosophy. It is very good for beginners or people with no background in the subject.
Section was amazing, but lectures are basically a waste of time. The course is also kind of unorganized.
This is a good intro course to philosophy of mind if you are interested in the topics but want an accessible way to learn the material.
This was a fantastic course. Coming from a social science background (economics concentrator), this class was unlike any class I've taken before. I had to think about topics I've never really thought before and in a way I've never thought before (i.e. using philosophical arguments). It had a manageable workload, and I had a lot of fun discussing the various topics we covered and researching for the project and final paper.
Really interesting and really easy. What more can you ask for?
This is an extremely interesting class with relatively little work, but you really get out what you put in. I have never taken a philosophy or psychology class so I felt that it made me think in new ways and the lectures and section were all fascinating.
Phil 22 was a great class.  The material was interesting and the workload was light.  This meant that you could easily do all of the readings and actually engage with the material.  The professor was really nice and gave interesting lectures.
Take the midterm seriously.
Very interesting topic and Guven is an effective lecturer. Hopefully it will be better organized in the future.
It is really interesting.
This course will make you consider many of the most important philosophical questions surrounding the mind, questions that have vital implications with regard to humanity. It is wonderfully taught and always intriguing. Every lecture leaves you questioning, pondering, and enthused!
It's a great gem class if you're looking to learn some philosophy without overloading your schedule.
The amount I got from this class relative to how much I spent on it is unbelievable. If you have even a tangential interest in philosophy or psychology, this course does a great job of piquing interest while requiring very little from you beyond reading the textbook, attending lecture and attending section.
I thoroughly enjoyed this course. The topics covered with unique and presented in an interesting light. The coursework isn't very heavy as well.
Great class. Very interesting material and fantastic professor and fabulous TF (I had Sofia).
Take it
Take this as an introductory course. As an underclassman. As a senior who has taken a class on free will, cyborg psychology, and dedicated my sophomore tutorial to free will and consciousness, this class was a lot of repetition and nothing much new. But, if you don't have any such background, it's an excellent, engaging, well-paced class to introduce you to the general field of Philosophy of Mind.
The material can be sometimes pretty tough to comprehend.
This course has nothing to do with PSYSCHOLOGY. It is just a course on philosophy of mind course and has nothing to do with psychology, but it is a very interesting course and covers some interesting topics, though sometimes can get a bit repetitive Easy course definitely with no workload at all.
Great class, do the work, readings not so much, very interesting.
Professor is great, I also really liked my TF. But material is confusing and vague because it is a subject-matter that has many unanswered questions. Assignments are fair, readings are good.
Great course and the Professor is a straight up G
The class is relatively easy and interesting if you engage with the material in lecture and section.
The class is not difficult, and covers a ton of really interesting material regarding the philosophy of psychology. I would absolutely take it if you can.
really chill but also interesting
This class is easy, that's for sure. But that's one of the only good things about it. The material has no connection at all to psychology, so if you're a psychology major there's no reason to take this unless you're taking it as a philosophy of mind class. The lecture is slower than necessary and often redundant, spending 30 minute recapping what was covered the day before. The assignments were not particularly useful, so they took time without being educational. It's just not really an enjoyable class.
Incredible course that is engaging, interesting, and yet takes up little time. Take it if you need to balance out an intense semester.
Great class. Gemmy, yet interesting.
class material is really interesting and not too much work. midterm takes a good deal of preparation.
This class is a good introduction to philosophy of mind class. I took it as my first philosophy class and am glad I did. It helped me with a different style of thinking and in looking at questions I normally don't consider.
