This class is really hard! You have to always keep up on the reading, and you might need to read outside courses about the philosophies being discussed in order to understand what's going on - and even then you might not completely get it.
There is  a lot of complicated reading in this class and the load is quite heavy for some weeks. The grading is also quite tough and I felt as though it was impossible to do extremely well. The material was very interesting though.
The course presents landmark works of philosophy in a very friendly, interactive, and understandable manner.  It opens one's eyes to a style of thinking that most students are not exposed to in high school, and challenges one to think in a way very different from what other courses/disciplines demand.  While the readings are captivating, the assignments can get rather tedious, though they are worth persevering through in order to experience the course as a whole.
This course was a pretty solid introduction to Philosophy, which I would recommend to anyone considering concentrating in it.
Everyone should be familiar with the material presented in this course.
Read everything, read it thoroughly.  These texts are your life in this class, and some of the authors are not good writers (I'M LOOKING AT YOU, LOCKE AND KANT)
A great way to get introduced to something you've never studied before.  Difficult, but still very accessible and interesting.
It is a great introduction to philosophy.
The papers are graded pretty harshly and it is hard to figure out how to improve. Much of the material, as well as many of the students, can be intimidating.
It's an interesting class, but you need to make sure you put the time in (which is a lot) to stay on top of the readings otherwise the class will be very difficult and not fun.
If you've never taken a philosophy course, this is a good choice if you want the blowing of the mind that you would expect from philosophy that is (relatively) grounded in reality.
As far as Introductory courses go, Philosophy 8 is top notch. Professor Simmons is brilliant, and she does a wonderful job of introducing you to some very difficult material but making it enjoyable and understandable. I'm a science major and this course made we want AT LEAST a secondary in Philosophy.
This is a FANTASTIC course! Professor Simmons is by far the most interesting, passionate and lovely professor I have had so far and she makes the complex ideas of philosophy clear and accessible. The class is a perfect introduction for philosophy since it is so well structured. I truly recommend this class, however, the grading is tough.
This was an awesome class and a great intro to the department.
VERY difficult, but a great class nonetheless.
The readings can be dense and boring, but Professor Simmons is a fun lecturer and the material gives you a good foundation in modern philosophy.
A very difficult class, but it will teach you how to think more stringently about matters and improve the construction of your arguments along with introducing you to some very interesting philosophical ideas.
Take it! Alison Simmons is a really great lecturer and a very approachable/awesome professor. This class is very well designed, so there are no stupid/unnecessary readings or essays. You will learn a lot of cool philosophy, and your writing and reading ability will get a lot better in the process. It's a great introduction to four crucial thinkers, and it's a pleasure.
This will not be your easiest class. Expect to learn, but ave your ego slightly crushed by your less than expected grade on each writing assignment. I would recommend pass/fail if truly interested, but worried about GPA.
If you have even a slight interest in philosophy, you should take this course. It is well taught and is not overwhelming. That said, you do need to keep up with the readings and take the course seriously. The essays require a lot of thought, but are short enough to emphasize critical thinking over lengthy writing. And Professor Simmons is one of the best teachers at Harvard.
I found Phil 8 to be extremely rewarding and challenging. You will learn a lot about the key thinkers of the early modern period, if you put in the effort. Be prepared to spend a lot of time thinking about and planning your essays, and deciphering dense passages of philosophical writing. Don't be fooled by the relatively short readings- they're packed with tons of information that can be confusing. That being said, this was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, and has made me much more aware of the way I write, not to mention the way I think. Taking this class with Professors Simmons is a must. She is an enthusiastic and clear lecturer, extremely knowledgable and excited about the subject matter, and just generally an amazing person. Invite her to events you are involved in on campus and go to her office hours if you can- I wish I had gone more, and they are super helpful. Also, use the writing tutor and your TF as resources.
I learned about what philosophy is and what type of practice philosophers are involved in. It was a great introduction to philosophy for someone who in the past had been kind of mystified by it. Expect to work really hard on the papers. Though they're short, they take a lot of time to complete. Also, don't expect to get any sort of real grounding in Kant.
The best introduction to serious philosophy. Professor Simmons is a wonderful professor who cares about her students, who certainly knows her stuff, who prepares excellent lectures. I recommend this class without any reservations. This course will spark some of the big questions in philosophy with the biggest early modern thinkers. Get good at writing along the way.
This is a difficult class, and there will be moments where you become angry with the writing, but there was never a moment when I thought that the writing was poor. Alison Simmons always convinces that the writing is worth our work.
This course is excellent as an introduction to early modern philosophy for new concentrators. I would say it should be a requirement, since the material we study is so central to an understanding and appreciation of modern philosophical thought that the course should be thought of as foundational. The course is also good for non-concentrators who are interested in philosophy - the course highlights central philosophical issues and thinkers and the questions we consider are some of the most interesting in modern philosophy.
This class is really difficult but gives a wonderful introduction to modern philosophy.  Ms. Simmons is an engaging professor and manages to map out even really confusing concepts. This class has really improved the clarity of my writing; the essays are challenging but really help you understand the concepts.
If you are thinking about taking one philosophy course while at Harvard (or if you are sure that you are going to concentrate in the discipline), you MUST take this course.  Not only does it provide a great introduction to four of the greatest thinkers in the Western tradition, but it also teaches you write and think philosophically and analytically.  Professor Simmons is a stellar lecturer, and her lectures on Transcendental Idealism literally brought me to tears (in a good way, of course).  Shed the fetters of an unexamined existence, and savor your undergraduate experience one bout of aporia at a time!  Take this course!
This class is awesome. I truly think differently as a result of this course and am much better at analyzing and responding to arguments. Its not too much work and the teaching staff is awesome, Professor Simmons is one of the best professors at Harvard. However, its really hard to get a good grade!
If you're not into this type of philosophy, you'll hate it.  But Prof. Simmons delivers interesting, easy-to-follow lectures, and the papers aren't too hard to succeed at if you put enough effort in.  Not going to be your easiest class, but definitely rewarding.
This class is immaculately organized and brilliantly executed. Lectures are detailed and intriguing and section is no exception. Though the grading is difficult at times, the class is extremely fair. By the end of the semester, everything magically clicksstudents finally figure out how to write philosophical essays, the connections between the four major thinkers becomes clear, and the overall structure of the class comes to make sense.
I really enjoyed this class and would recommend it to anyone who is curious about philosophy and wants to give it a try. The workload is extremely manageable and there is a great support system if you need help. The texts are really interesting and Professor Simmons is an amazing lecturer.
This is a great class with really interesting and challenging lecture material, but the papers are a challenge and you will make little to no progress throughout the course.
Lots of help to get you through the thick and confusing muddle of epistemology. This class will make you think and confuse you, it might even make you lose all your belief in the world-but that is better than being an ignoramus.
The material is of the highest importance: how our minds relate to the world, in a nutshell. Grading of papers can be a little offI'm told to 'be less creative' when I'm giving a tediously straightforward exegesis? So, if you're not a phil. concentrator, take this course anyway, pretend you're taking it pass-fail, never look at your grades, and have fun!
A thorough and interesting introduction to philosophy and philosophical thinking, Phil 8 challenged my views of the world and greatly improved my writing.
I am an economics concentrator and this is the best course I have taken at Harvard. The teaching staff is excellent, and always readily available to help answer questions, go through essay topics, read over drafts, or just to chat about life. The material is interesting, but becomes vividly engaging when Alison presents it. The course requires hard work, but it is entirely worth it. Every step of the journey has been fun, making all the hours spent reading, writing and thinking worth it. TAKE THIS CLASS!!
This is a really wonderful course, whose papers are very difficult.  Prof. Simmons is perfect (go to her office hours), and Charles is a wonderfully devoted and helpful TF. The readings are excellent, though difficult.  If you're willing to put in a bit of work, and push through some less-than-pleasing early grades, you're philosophy writing and thinking will improve tremendously.
My favorite course so far at Harvard, and I started it thinking I'd never like philosophy. Fantastic lectures, and very fulfilling assignments. I would highly recommend going to section and office hours to discuss the material further - makes writing the papers much more enjoyable, and way less confusing. Be prepared for a tough grading scale, but that makes the good grades that much more rewarding.
1. Go to class. If you don't, you'll fall behind, especially as the course gets more difficult.2. Go to office hours. If you have the attention span of an ant (like I do), then you will not retain much from lecture.  In office hours, you get clarification on confusing concepts, a chance to bond with other students and form study groups, and an opportunity to go through difficult parts of the text.3. Do the study question sheets provided. They help you engage with the text in a far more productive fashion, especially when you get to the Locke and Kant study sheets.4. See your TF regularly (outside of Professor Simmon's office hours). There, you can go over your study questions in a one-on-one setting and get some great practice on writing essays.5. Form study groups. That's the only way you'll do well on the final. Trying to study by yourself is a no-no.
Take this class if you are interested in philosophy and want a great introduction. Alison is a fantastic lecturer and you will learn a lot. Prepare to think and think and think.
Take it! (really, take any course with Professor Simmons)
If you are the slightest bit interested in philosophy, science, math, human knowledge in general PLEASE take this class. Professor Simmons is an amazing lecturer and engaged teacher, and Charles is the best TF anyone could ask for. Be prepared to talk to many, many people including the teaching staff about your papers.
This class was a great introduction to the Early Modern philosophers Descartes, Locke, Hume, and Kant.  Professor Simmons is a wonderful lecturer and really is able to make metaphysics and theories on the human mind come alive.  Be prepared to read and write.
This is a great start if you have slight interest for philosophy. Professor Summers and the TFs are very ready to help you improve! Lots of great class discussions!
Take this class. Simmons is incredible, and you don't want to miss the chance to spend time with her. The readings can get difficult, but they can also be incredibly rewarding--and the amount of work is not unmanageable by any stretch.
The readings are challenging, and can be hard to understand with just one reading. However, Professor Simmons' provides the form to this difficult matter, wonderfully organizing the ideas into clear concepts that help us understand the arguments and views of the philosophers. I fully recommend taking this class to learn more about the history of thinking!
Alison Simmons beggars all description.A word of warning, on the other hand:The TF might suck; your GPA, suffer;Yet these are but strands of clouds and mist that Hardly can her illuminations hide.
Philosophy 8 is an outstanding introductory philosophy course. It presents a very thorough look at some of the most preeminent thinkers of the Early Modern period, but even though it deals with a subject as weighty as the history of philosophy it is overall an interesting and even entertaining course.
Phil 8 is an excellent class and Alison Simmons is GREAT. It was my first Philosophy class and probably my favourite class this semester. The readings are manageable (Descartes and Hume are a pleasure to read, and Locke and Kant are not too hard). The main prerequisite is having an interest in philosophical questions. If you are the sort of person who has spent the odd hour musing over whether we all see the same red, this class is for you.
Please choose this course carefully. I took it in order to explore, but it didn't do very much for me. It's difficult if you do not have philosophy background.
This is an interesting course, although it starts out better than it finishes.  You get really sucked in by the first few lectures -- and Prof Simmons is a great lecturer -- but the content dies down and the clarity in her lecturing fades at the course progresses.  Also, they grade the papers very harshly.
This class cured me of thinking philosophy was a worthwhile discipline. If you need to be similarly disabused, then this is the class for you.
Difficult class. You really need to read all of the assigned reading, or your grades will suffer accordingly.
try to get Charles
Very, very good class. Allison Simmons is a brilliant professor, great lecturer and all-around interesting person to hear speak and learn from. Readings are hard and paper's are equally as difficult. That being said, all the work you do is so rewarding and really do allow you to understand the material better. Doing the work is so, so worth it. Take if you're interested in philosophy and want an involved introduction to the most basic philosophers of all time!
Difficult but very interesting
Because the philosophers' works are so abstract, it is easy to daydream in lecture... You have to be very enthusiastic about the subject to stay focused. The reading, too, can be dense, but if you like philosophy then half the fun is figuring out what the heck these guys are saying.
This class is very challenging, but also very rewarding. Grading is difficult, especially at first, but it gets better. Philosophy 8 convinced me to concentrate in philosophy.
Phil 8 is an amazing class. Professor Simmons is engaging and at times funny. She throws her full self behind representing the views of each philosopher, and she will play devil's advocate to students' objections to philosophical views with every fiber of her being. You may leave this class no longer knowing what a color is, but you will learn how to think.
If you're going to take one philosophy class at Harvard, take this one!  It's really interesting, and it's not watered down so you get to do real philosophy and come out knowing a lot more.
If you are at all interesting in questions like, "Who am I?", "What can I know?", and "What is experience?" you should take Phil 8. You will not be disappointed. You get to hear what four of the greatest philosophers had to say about these questions. Professor Simmons and the TF's Celine and Charles are wonderful. They encourage you to talk through questions and tricky points from the readings, and they are more than willing to meet with you to talk about stuff from lecture or anything really. If you have a philosophical itch, scratch it and take Phil 8!!!! Some advice if you decide to take it-- do the study questions. They will help you keep up with the material and realize what concepts you do not fully understand.
This course is difficult and won't seem great until the very end when you study for the final and it all comes together. I ended up really liking this class but the grading is hard and the assignments sometimes feel useless.
The teacher is great, lectures are really interesting, but the reading is hard and slow, and section is a waste of time.
Phil 8 is so far one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  The material is really interesting but the professor clearly really cares about undergraduates. Grading is tough but it really forces you to improve your writing skills. There are also plenty of office hours provided by the professor and the TFs so you can discuss your essays beforehand. If you get Charles More as your TF prepare yourself for a great and entertaining semester.
This class is great because of the professor, and I mean this in a negative way. The course moves very slowly, you won't feel like you are incredibly better off because of it. Section was painful.
It is an absolutely fantastic option for an introductory philosophy course
If you are interested in philosophy, or just like taking classes with great professors and tfs, take Phil 8! It's a lot of fun!
This is an excellent philosophy class with a professor who cares about her students and good opportunities to improve writing skills.  The question one should ask before taking this course is whether one likes philosophy.  It is less about debating free will and the existence of God and more about trying to understand authors' complex systems of "synthetic and analytic judgments" or "formal vs. objective reality," and reconstructing valid proofs.  Think about whether you like this.
The readings are pretty manageable, especially considering you're reading people like Kant who can't write clearly. Plus, even if you have no idea what you just read, you could Sparknotes it for help. The lectures are a must-go-- it's practically impossible to follow the readings without the context from lectures. Overall, I feel like I learned a lot.
It's not offered in 2012-2013, but take it as soon as you can. Be prepared for B's and B+'s on your essays, though.
Be prepared to think a lot and to struggle with a heavily analytic approach to philosophy.
This is an excellent intro class, and arguably the best intro to philosophy class at Harvard. The four philosophers you will study - Descartes, Locke, Hume and Kant - form the backbone of modern Western thinking into Epistemology, and I would highly recommend this class to anyone who has never studied philosophy before and is still trying to gauge their own interest levels. Alison's lectures are fantastic - she offers a clear and precise way of thinking about some fairly convoluted ideas. If you want to begin studying philosophy - this is the place to do it. For those with more of a philosophical background I would perhaps advise against taking this class. While the ideas discussed are interesting, they have been written about so often and so regularly that they are no longer particularly enlightening. Philosophy majors may benefit from taking something a little more probing than Phil 8. This is still an intro class.
For students who either know they want to concentrate in Philosophy, or for people like me who had never touched the subject before this class, Phil 8 is a phenomenally thought-provoking class. The class doesn't require a huge amount of work, though getting straight A's on the essays may prove rather difficult for people who care about that.
Go to office hours (both the TFs' and the professor's) before each assignment is due! The essays can be frustrating, but Professor Simmons is wonderful, and you will be exposed to some really fascinating philosophical concepts (or are they philosophical ideas?).
Why you should take this class: (1) you get a pretty good overview of Descartes, Locke, Hume and Kant. They have really interesting ideas; (2) essays are manageable. Just make sure you make appointments with the writing fellow way in advance and make a study group; (3) you learn to think more logically and analytically sort of; (4) you are given the final essay topics in advance. Why you should NOT take this class: (1) essays are graded HARD. This is NOT a class you will get an A in unless you were already philosophically or analytically oriented; (2) readings are dense and boring. You should probably sparknote them first and then do the readings; (3) I actually DIDN'T like the professor's lectures that much. She moves through things slowly and it almost seemed like we were going over the same concept for the entire lecture. I found them boring at times and often feel asleep; (4) I'm not super logical and I really like loosely interpreting things. You can't do stuff like that in philosophy because philosophy is so analytic and logical.
Great class! Ask a lot of questions.
This course teaches you how to "read, write, and think in slow motion." It is a fairly rigorous introduction to the structure of philosophical arguments and the nature of philosophical reading. This will not be your easiest class; it is rather difficult and requires serious thought and dedication, particularly around essay due dates. Professor Simmons is a wonderful lecturer and a beautiful person in general. The teaching staff is also excellent and very willing to help. I did feel the papers were graded a bit harshly for an introductory class, but it does force you to carefully analyze what you are reading and writing.
it's a great class especially if you've never taken philosophy before/don't really know what it entails! prof. simmons and the TFs are incredibly helpful and encourage you to push back, but if you ever feel totally lost and confused, go to office hours. they were not only useful but fun. and keep up wit the reading, otherwise it'll come back to haunt you when you're trying to haul through kant's critique during reading period
Fantastic class. You learn how to read and write effectively, and you get a really good feel for the basic themes of the philosophy of epistemology. Simmons is amazing!!!
The professor is a wonderful resource to learn more about philosophy.
No specific recommendations.
This course is amazing. The readings and the essays definitely require hard work, if you want to do well, but if you're interested in any of the main topics of early modern philosophy it's totally worthwhile. Professor Simmons and the TFs are very supportive, so if the work gets too confusing, there's always help.
This class, and philosophy in general, is not for everyone.  However, if you are vaguely interested in philosophy, this class is the perfect introduction to the topic.
Be prepared for confusion!
Prof Simmons is nice and her lectures are interesting.
Great introduction. It doesn't fall into the simplistic overviews of secondary sources; rather, it provides an accessible and challenging approach to the philsophers' texts themselves. Additionally, this course helps a lot in the process of learning how to write with brevity and clarity.
Everyone should take an intro to philosophy class and this might as well be the one, because it's really great.
shits real
I highly recommend this class.  Professor Simmons is a great professor and this class was an outstanding introduction to philosophy.  Take this class!
Professor Simmons is an excellent teacher (in the fullest sense of the word).
Only if you're really interested in epistemology.
You have to know you're getting yourself into a philosophy course. ie: you should be really interested in philosophy (and know what being interested in it means!) and you should be willing to put in the extra time it will take to know the info well, if you're not motivated to put in the time to get a good handle on the material, its not worth taking.
This class is challenging, but not excessively so, and the material is highly interesting to anyone with a genuine curiosity about philosophical issues.
I would not take this course unless you have read some early modern philosophy before. And enjoyed it, if that's possible.
If you have any interest in pursuing philosophy at Harvard, this class will serve you well.
I would advise students to shop the course carefully. Just an interest in philosophy may not necessarily sustain a student through the course and the readings.
Early modern philosophy can at times be quite dry and the writing seems to be flavorless, but it is an important and interesting foundation for those concentrating in philosophy, or the humanities in general.
This course is an excellent introduction to philosophical concepts - I highly recommend this class.
This is a hard class, so only people who are really interested in early modern philosophy should take it.
This class involves a decent amount of reading, but it's all worth it.  I highly recommend this to anyone with an interest in philosophy; it's a great introduction.
Great class, even if not interested in majoring in philosophy. Material very interesting. Is a great introduction to philosophy.
Incredibly good. Really enjoyed it, and the teacher is excellent.
I never thought I would question the existence of the external world, the nature of color, the definition of causation, or the reality of space and time, but now I am wonderfully confounded by all of these questions. Don't get me wrong, my confusion doesn't stem from lack of understanding, as the class was expertly taught, but rather from a deeper knowledge of the philosophical problems hidden beneath the surface of common sense notions about these questions.
Only take this class with Alison SimmonsI can imagine this class being awful under other professors.
Listen to what they tell you about how to write philosophy papers. Once you get that down pat, you should be set.
Boring.  But some people seemed to like it.
Grading is hard.
This course serves as a substantial introduction to the empiricists, rationalist, and Kant. If you have never written a philosophy paper, this course would be a good one to take because it requires students to (and more importantly teaches students how to) write different types of philosophy papers. These include: reconstruction of an argument, defense of an argument, and personal response to an argument.
Although the topics are at times boggling - and though struggling with the papers can be frustating at first - this class is incredibly rewarding. I felt like I had learned a LOT by the end of the semester - both about what Descartes, Locke, Hume, and Kant believed but also about what I believed - and what I was capable of thinking and cogently writing about! It's worth throwing yourself into the readings. AND USE OFFICE HOURS - professor Simmons is SO wonderful. Go from the beginning - even if it's just to listen. I wish I had started going earlier.
This is an excellent course and you should take it. Professor Simmons is a great lecturer and will teach you a lot.
Prof Simmons is an amazing lecturer and a wonderful person. If you take this course, make sure to go to her office hours and chat with her. This is a good introductory philosophy course and a great course to take as a freshman. Especially if you're not a freshman, though, before you get sucked in make sure you're actually interested in the material enough to spend the time on it. Also realize that grading in this course can be very harsh depending on who your TF is, and realize that there is a very very good chance that even if you have gotten pretty much all As at Harvard you will end up with a B in this class.
An excellent experience. I felt proud of the work I had done at the end of the course.
It's very focused on philosophy of the mind, but is still a good overall coverage of early modern philosophy
Allison Simmons is amazing.  This course provides a great introduction to philosophy, and you will learn a lot.  It takes time to write good papers for the class, but it is worth it.
They have high standards, but you will do some interesting philosophy on your way to a GPA-wrecking grade.
The material is extremely difficult, but the teachers are aware of this.
Be prepared to learn a new way to write academically.
This is a fantastic class with a really great lecturer. The essays, however, are very difficult. Philosophical writing is hard to pick up on, and if you have a bad TF (as I did) it will be even harder. So, use the writing TF of the department a lot -- he's very great. Simmons is a great professor, though.
Take this course! it is enjoyable, rewarding and fun. The professors rick, the TF are excellent. The material is outstanding. It truly is an incredible course.
GREAT class, really fantastic lectures
Take only if you are interested in real philosophy.
pretty good intro to philosophy, but it's all metaphysics, so don't take it you don't care about metaphysics
Interesting, not a lot of chance to discuss in big groups, and tackles only a few subjects from philosophers instead of an in depth view of them.
Alison Simmons is an amazing professor who manages to make a large class feel engaged throughout lecture. This is a great alternative to Philosophy 3 because it is more focused and encourages active philosophical thought.
It's a fine class with a good introduction to philosophy. The subject matter itself wasn't my favorite, though.
The class raises interesting, accessible problems, but ones that may seem irrelevant. For example, I've never found it a matter of much concern whether heat is a privation of cold or cold a privation of heat. I'd recommend this course more to argumentative types and those who enjoy wrapping themselves up in a nice, cozy problem.
It is the correct/a great introduction to take in the philosophy department, and you will get your feet wet with Descartes, Locke, etc. But also, don't expect anything really too exciting or special (besides a great professor and lectures). Philosophy in the sense of this course is really about the study of an author's argument and a kind of forsensic analytical work with that argument.
The reading is very dense and needs time to sink in.
This is a great introduction to four very important thinkers; if you're interested in the history of philosophy or of Western thought in general, you will probably enjoy this course.
Make sure to get help from the writing tutor.
The class was extremely informative, and made philosophy accessible and enjoyable!
You should always go to lecture because they are both really interesting and help you understand the material.  This is my favorite class at Harvard so far but if you're looking to get an A, I wouldn't recommend this class.
It is excellent preparation for other philosophy classes. But yes, you will have to read Descartes. Sorry.
This is a good class and it is extremely engaging, but if the subject is not something that you are extremely passionate about or interested in, the work can be daunting.
A good introduction to philosophy at Harvard. You'll gain experience reading philosophical texts and writing philosophy papers.
This is a class largely about building your basic metaphysical and epistemological vocabulary. Learning the vocabulary itself isn't always the funnest. But once you know it you'll be glad you took the course.
It's difficult, and the material requires a lot of engagement on your part, but it's definitely rewarding.
Make sure to get help with your writing.  It is really the major evaluative method of the course.
What's college without a philosophy course?  Allison Simmons is a great professor and the course covers some of the material of the really big names.
Excellent Course.Excellent Professor.
Your writing will improve in ways you never thought possible, but prepare to be frustrated with you progress- both quantitatively and qualitatively.
Best class I've taken.  Best professor I've ever had.
This is not an easy class and you should consider carefully whether you take it. The papers can be difficult and the grading is much tougher than in my social science classes. Take it with Professor Simmons for clear and witty lectures, and hope that you get a great TF as I did to help you get through the material and understand your mistakes on the papers. The class requires a lot of work and you need to stay engaged, but it's a valuable exercise in logical thinking and writing.
It is a good introduction to philosophy.
This class is tough. The readings don't make much sense, and it's extremely hard to follow. Don't take unless you really love philosophy. Not a good intro course.
Do not take this class unless you are ready to be challenged and know as a fact you want to learn about epistemology and metaphysics in particular.  If you do not know much about philosophy but think you might be interested in it, maybe you should take Phil 3.
This class is amazing. Although it made me realize I don't want to concentrate in Philosophy, it was still a wonderful class and Professor Simmons is a fantastic lecturer that makes coming to class a joy as opposed to a hassle.
Alison Simmons is a fantastic lecturer - she makes it look so easy that it'll take you some time to realize how impressive she is. Don't be underwhelmed by the first class, which is a little gimmicky, but stay for a couple if you're shopping. Don't be discouraged by your first grade, or your second, or your third - there's a learning curve. Also, TFs for this course vary dramatically in grading standards and styles, so ask around and find a good one.
Spend time on the material and the understanding will come with time and hard work.
Be prepared to be frustrated at times, but also be prepared to get a strong foundational experience in philosophy.
A great class if you're interested in learning HOW it is we come to think. Extremely well taught, and really challenging!
It is a challenging class, but it is rewarding for its challenges. Its lack of tolerence for conceptual laziness will both lean and strenghten your thinking and writing. Highly recommended.
It's a difficult course, but it will open up your mind.  It's essentially an beneficial academic form of LSD.
Beautiful course, please take it if you want to get your feet wet in philosophy. You won't regret it.
This class introduces you to really fascinating philosophical ideas. You are given the time to really delve in-depth into the readings and I felt that I came away with a strong grasp of the central arguments of each philosopher, as well as the themes that unified them. Essays are graded critically but your writing, and hopefully thinking, will become a lot more precise. Encourages you to really struggle with complex and fascinating ideas and hopefully come out a stronger thinker on the other side.
Phil 8 is a great class if you have some remote interest in philosophy. We read just the right amount of each philosopher in the course so that it feels like you have an understanding of their main views without having to dig deep. Simmons makes lectures fun and engaging, although it felt like it slowed down a bit in the middle of the semester. And a lot of people were dissatisfied with section. But the class is still a great one. Try this class!
I waited to take a philosophy course until the spring semester, because I heard that this was far and away the best introduction to the field. And I am so glad I chose to wait! Phil 8 is a fantastic way to get started with studying philosophy. The topics are extremely interesting, and Professor Simmons is an incredible teacher. In addition to being unfailingly kind and approachable, her command of the material is extraordinary, and the way she breaks down ideas in lecture makes even the most complicated ideas processable. Take this course!
AMAZING course. Do not take this if you want to learn about philosophers (go to Social Studies for that). Take this course if you want to DO philosophy with extremely smart teaching staff. You will be challenged and it will feel really good at the end when you feel like your brain has grown.
Philosophy 8 is a class that challenges both your philosophical ideas and your idea of philosophy. It breaks down philosophical ideas into manageable terms, while also reconstructing what it means to do philosophy. Without explicit explanation of why philosophy applies to almost all aspects of life, you will most likely discover this fact as you engage with the class and the material.
No background necessary (A strength of this course), Simmons is a funny, engaging, and amazing lecturer. Office hours were also great!  Take this class!
Great lectures.  The course really takes shape towards the end and I now have an interest in the field that I didn't have during the course.  The subject matter was a bit boring at first, but most people get over it pretty quickly.  My TF was pretty weak (although passionate) and I hope they change them soon.
Professor Simmons is amazing, the reading are mindblowing and trippy and times. You will love section and love philosophy. It opened my eyes to potentially concentrating in Phil. There are 5 papers and a Final, so it's definitely a lot of work, but super worth it (to be honest I enjoyed writing the papers). The final also bring everything together and the AH-HA moment you were waiting for all semester occurs. That being said, section was atrocious. The grading wasn't bad but dear lord Richard was so confusing and disorganized that section made my guts churn. If they get better TF's for the course, it will be THE intro course to Phil.
It shows you what people had thought about in regards to the limit and ability of human understanding! It is always important to know our own faculties of understanding.
This might be one of the best classes you will take at Harvard. Prof. Simmon's lectures are amazing, at the end of lecture I would almost always wish we had more time (and I don't say that lightly!). If you are at all interested in philosophy or history of philosophy you will not regret taking this course. I highly recommend taking advantage of office hours.
If you are planning to concentrate in philosophy, take this class! You will get to read some of the mainstays of early modern philosophy and treat philosophical texts with greater rigor. You will also become a much better philosophy writer. The class is very demanding, but you will learn a lot.
One of my favorite courses in 4 years - Simmons is unreal! Learn how to think and write better and more precisely.
Embrace the fact that reading these authors won't key you in to the solutions of humanity's greatest problems. Nor will your contribution to this course do that. Thus, study the arguments as an exercise in critically analyzing dense texts to uncover the argumentative structures contained within. It might not make you fall in love with philosophy (quite challenging, sometimes dull), but the skills you develop just might help you elsewhere.
By far the best intro philosophy course at Harvard. The most relevant to today, the most rigorous, the most interesting, the best taught and organized, and the best readings. Prof Simmons has designed a near-perfect course. The TFs were very sharp and knowledgeable a prepared, too.
Professor Simmons is one of the best lecturers at Harvard. If you've always been interested in philosophy but never taken a class, this would be a great starting-point. The readings are interesting (and, thankfully, relatively short), and you get to learn about all those famous names--Descartes, Locke, Hume, and Kant--and their ideas.
This is a great introductory philosophy class. Professor Simmons is a fantastic lecturer. She is a great speaker and intellectual. She is very patient and fast-thinking. I would recommend anyone to take this course!
This class is AMAZING! Definitely my favorite class I have taken at Harvard. It is a great introduction to early modern philosophy (and philosophy in general). But despite being an introductory course, students are still forced to engage deeply and grapple with challenging questions, and I felt like I grew a lot over the semester from engaging with this material. It's also a great introduction to how to write philosophy papers. Professor Simmons is an incredible teacher -- lectures are fantastic and she is extremely willing to engage with students outside of class; I got so much out of going to her office hours over the course of the semester, and highly recommend going if you take this class. Olivia, the TF, is also great -- super accessible and sections were never boring.
It will certainly challenge your critical thinking skills, but if you're up for the challenge it will certainly be a rewarding one when you see how much you've learned and just how much you've improved.
This is an absolutely wonderful class that I cannot recommend highly enough and was my favorite this year. Alison Simmons is an excellent professor who makes some very difficult but very interesting readings accessible and exciting. The essays are 2-4 pages in length with very interesting prompts that push you to interact with the texts in a really cool way. This is a great course for prospective philosophy concentrators as it gets into some difficult material but requires no background in philosophy. Tip: go to office hours! Professor Simmons is so helpful, and attending office hours saves you time in the long run, especially on your essays, by making you understand the material better.
Professor Simmons is incredible! Take this class if you're at all interested in philosophy or just if your wondering how to approach big important questions like "What can I claim to know?" "Does God exist?" and "Does anything exist outside my mind?"
The sooner you take this class in your college career, the better.
Prof. Simmons is an absolutely fantastic lecturer, and you get out of this class what you put in. The content is fascinating and is great to know for anyone. However, some of the readings (LOCKE) are horrendously dry and take effort to plow through. Office hours are a huge help and should be used. Section however was mediocre and it was often a waste of time.
It's too rushed, although the subject is very intriguing and Simmons is an entertaining lecturer. However, no teacher, no matter how great, can make a decidedly intermediate if not expert class into a beginner/intro one.
This class is absolutely amazing, and I recommend it highly. Prof. Simmons makes reading Descartes, Locke, Hume, and Kant very accessible. Also, Olivia is a wonderful TF, and she really knows her stuff. On a side note, as a Social Studies concentrator, knowing about Kant's and Locke's epistemology helped me better appreciate their political writings.
An enjoyable, mind-broadening change of pace for science and engineering students.
Really hard, and there are no ethics involved. Not worth it for elective, absolutely not worth it if you are premed.
Good class if you want and introduction to philosophy.  Not the most exciting thing you will take, but a good start in philosophy.
If you want to get a taste of philosophy, this is the best course to get that taste. Alison is one of the most likable, approachable, and pedagogically excellent professors at Harvard. You will probably have a huge professor crush on her by the end of the course. There is so much support for students in helping them learn how to write philosophy. It's very clearly an intro course and the teaching staff are acutely aware that people are here to learn the tools of philosophy. Please don't let hard grades be the reason why you don't take this. It's really not that bad, and your GPA is never a reason not to take an excellent course. This will help you become a more lucid thinker.
bjectively speaking this is a great class, with a wonderful professor and classic texts. Personally, however, I got bored with it (full disclosure: I neglected the readings).
Regardless of concentration, this is an excellent course to take. This is a well-presented introduction to some major philosophers, as well as quandaries which still affect our thought today. The writings and readings are short, but dense and challenging. One would be well-advised to come to lecture awake and prepared, lest they fall behind (even a five-minute snooze is enough to leave one confused). This is not an easy course, it is is worth the effort.
Be prepared, subject matter like this can get very confusing very quickly and is not for the faint of heart.
Take this class! I had no plans to take any philosophy courses in college, but after taking this class, I plan to get a secondary in philosophy. This course greatly improved my skills in formulating arguments and debating, and was a wonderful introduction to philosophy. This class was the classic "teaching you how to think" class and I spent hours per week outside of class engaged in conversation about "what is a colour?" "what is a self?" etc. That said, be prepared to be confused by the Locke and Kant readings (though Prof. Simmons and Olivia were helpful in un-muddying them) and be sure to form a study group for the final exam or bad things will happen.
Take this course! Prof. Simmons is amazing. Her lectures are crystal clear, making the challenging but fascinating material easily accessible. Go to her office hours for fun and deeper discussions on the systems of these philosophers - you're definitely missing out if you don't go. The readings are great and every step of the way the material was thought provoking. Easily the best course experience I've had at Harvard.
Phil 8 is not what you think it is- only take it if you're really into philosophy already and care a lot about what these four authors think about human cognition.
This class really pushes you to think critically about deep philosophical arguments. I learned logic, argumentation, and how to truly read deeply. That said, it's really hard to get an A, unless you've done philosophy stuff before.
This class is interesting, and the teaching staff is fantastic. But do not underestimate it. Just because it is an intro course does not mean it will be easy. The reading is consistently difficult, though there isn't that much of it. Mostly, the writing is just hard, and the questions constructed in a way to frustrate rather than educate. Be prepared to spend the time and go talk to your TF. Also, you will need to start studying for the final well in advance.
Most of your grade in this class is based on 4 essays. The grading of the essays seemed pretty arbitrary. Beware that if you don't have the most precise word choices in essays, you likely won't get the grade you want. Lectures were good and covered a lot of material, and I think synthesizing everything for the final was an excellent idea and made me learn a lot.
Simmons's lectures are the ideal accompaniments to the readings of the course. If you are interested in delving into philosophy, I highly recommend taking this class.
A fantastic "first philosophy class." The Early Modern period is really a great period in philosophy to first study, as it really connects the ideas of the past with ideas more relevant to contemporary philosophy.
Once again, this class is amazing and truly a highlight of my college career thus far. You won't regret taking it!
Good class! Not a ton of work, but pretty interesting and I learned quite a bit for the amount of time I put in. If you're thinking about taking it, do it!
Great introduction to philosophy - definitely shifted the way I thought/wrote, especially considering the necessary time investment (it's really not a huge workload). Professor Simmons is a fantastic lecturer and cares about both the material and her students. The only downside of the class was that grading could be inconsistent, especially at the beginning of the course (whether or not you were penalized for going over word count, for example, depended on the TF).
This class was absolutely phenomenal! The faculty was great and their enthusiasm in the material was really palpable. it is a great introductory course to philosophy as you grapple with identity, metaphysics, epistemology, and a basic understanding of the varying views and theories.
Professor Simmons is phenomenal and lectures are clear and interesting.  The material is great too.  It starts with inception and goes from there.  Take this class!
Take this course, especially if you're a freshman! It could strongly influence your decision on what to concentrate in. Phil 8 is one of those rare courses where there's never a dull moment (even when you're reading Kant--believe me) and you can palpably feel your mind being stretched. Prof. Simmons is one of the most engaging lecturers I've met at Harvard, and the teaching staff are very knowledgeable and helpful. This class is an exemplar of a liberal arts education. To reiterate: don't hesitate to take this class, and the earlier the better!
This class is very tough and graded strictly but you will learn more than you can ever imagine.
Simmons is probably one of the most talented professors at Harvard and also one of the most caring. Even if you're not crazy about Kant, take the class for her.
Prof. Simmons is really remarkable. I can't imagine a better introduction to philosophy. I took this PF as a junior. It probably helped my GPA a bit (grading tends to be tough relative to Harvard's usual inflation), but I feel like I didn't put all the concepts together for the final as well as I would have if I knew I was taking it for a letter grade.
Kant is hard. Prepare to have your mind blown.
While this is by no means an easy class, if you're considering studying philosophy in any form, this is a great place to start. Prof. Simmons is a phenomenal lecturer, and the TFs were a really smart and dedicated bunch. Try scooting around sections to find a good one - some of them can be rather stale; make sure you find one with passionate people who aren't afraid to talk. A lot of work goes into teaching how philosophy papers are written, including an ungraded rough draft for the first essay. Grades are NOT inflated, but aren't terribly delfated either; READ THE ASSIGNMENTS CAREFULLY, though, there may be additional components and tricky wording that might lead you to make mistakes and lose some points.
Among the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Reading the classics and thinking about these deep questions is fascinating, and the staff make it super accessible.
I don't think philosophy is something everyone can appreciate, but I sure did and it was a lot of fun.
Very interesting discussion on influential thinkers.
Simmons is awesome, if you can manage it you really must read with her! Teaching awards etc. it's not an exaggeration, she's really cool.That said I really think the assistance on the teaching staff could be better to help kids who put in the effort to succeed. Perhaps philosophy is different, so take this with that grain of salt, but if you prioritise a class above most others, put in the effort and the hours I think it's fair to assume you'd get a reasonable return. I wasn't sure anyone else but me wanted that to be the case in this particular case.
This will be one of the hardest, but the most rewarding courses of your college career! Reway just makes you reevaluate how you approach the world from a personal perspective.
This course really pushes you to become a more critical reader and write more carefully and concisely. On top of that, the subject is fascinating and really pushed me to reconsider my previous ideas about reality and identity. The teaching staff is really passionate and know the material very well.
I loved this course. It is quite difficult, but definitely a class that everyone should take while at the College.
Take it for a good introduction to philosophical thinking in general and early modern philosophy in particular. This class is designed to be accessible to people of any philosophy background, so if you have no experience with philosophy but would like to learn from a supportive professor and a great teaching staff, this is the class for you. That being said, even if you have a lot of philosophy experience, you'll find that Professor Simmons is always willing to challenge you to think more about your ideas and expand what you think you know. It's an enjoyable class if you are willing to put in the time, engage with the readings, and ask interesting questions in class and office hours.
If you're interested in exploring philosophy at all, THIS is the class to take! Not only is it taught by a phenomenal staff, but it also introduces you to a broad scope of topics that will blow you, your family, your friends, and your employers away. After just one month of being in this class, I decided to become a philosophy concentrator. After just two months in this class, I was talking about the philosophy I had learned with the Founder of Costco and CDO of Starbucks. After just three months of being in this class, I knew my life was changed. TAKE THIS! If you don't, you never really experienced a true Harvard education.
This is phenomenal and stimulating introduction to philosophy. Everyone should take this because it works in concert with every other subject. There were so many a-ha moments in this course and never a dull moment. Allison Simmons and Patricia Marechal were both unbelievably great teachers. It is not too hard so I would say it is the most efficient class I took all year.
If you want a WELL DONE philosophy class, take this one. It is full of wonderful teaching staff, including the goddess Allison Simmons, and very driven students. That being said, think carefully about how this will fit into your schedule. I wasn't anticipating nearly as much work as I ended up putting into the course-- it became one of my most demanding courses this semester, what with very harsh grading of my writing and frequent essay assignments.  ALSO, don't expect a general overview of philosophy-- the title is misleading. This course has a very narrow focus (human perception of the world) which I quickly discovered didn't interest me. STILL, if you're looking to meet incredible teachers and dramatically improve your writing, take this class!
Not too terribly challenging and Prof. Simmons is excellent.
This is an outstanding course with a top-notch professor and teaching staff. Prof. Simmons is smart, funny, and easily approachable. She will take and answer any question (about anything) during lecture or office hour or scheduled meeting; she will make you enjoy metaphysics (and even Locke's writing!); and she will give you one of the best-planned courses at Harvard. The essays assignments should not be taken lightly, but they are short, have clear expectations, and are fairly graded, with detailed TF comments for each essay. If you want a solid introductory philosophy (or an introduction to metaphysics), I strongly recommend Phil 8.
Phil 8 is the best. I took it as a 5th course elective on top of a science heavy class and found it very doable (although you need to keep on top of the material to get the most out of it). The lectures are amazing (love prof Simmons!) and the essays are tough but interesting. Some exposure to philosophy is useful for students in all fields. So just give it a try! The TFs this semester were great and you should definitely go to OHs to discuss the material and also for help with the exams. If you're on the fence about this class - I say go for it!
It's not easy, but it's interesting.
This class is fantastic. You get a solid foundation for future philosophy classes. The professor and TF are incredible and so dedicated to students' understanding of concepts and general wellbeing. I was really glad this was my introduction to philosophy.
I never expected to take this course, but I'm so glad that I did. Professor Simmons is one of the best professors that I've ever had and the teaching staff is excellent. Discussions are consistently stimulating and every time you read and re-read these texts, you get more from them.
This is the intro philosophy course to take. Allison Simmons strikes the perfect balance between breadth and depth - not overly ambitious in its scope, but doesn't get hung up on just one or two ideas. Readings were interesting and very doable. Great lectures. Good number of papers, paper topics/length. Very good TFs. Just all around a solid course. It turns a lot of people on to philosophy, so get brace yourself for that. If you are even a little interested in philosophy, absolutely go for it.
An excellent class
This course is great for anyone interested in philosophy or even curious!
Even if you are only moderately interested in philosophy, take this course. It will change your life as you think about and discuss these thinkers. You will find that their thoughts have such relevance to what is happening in the world today! Also, Professor Simmons is one of the best professors I've ever had!
The in-depth focus on analytic philosophy was a great mental exercise and a good introduction to the philosophy department at Harvard. There is an enormous amount of support from professor Simmons and from the wonderful, ferociously intelligent teaching staff.However, sometimes the analytical approach is a little overwhelming. It can feel pretty intense at times and sometimes the focus on skill-building can detract from the fun of the course. However, I think it's unlikely that you will leave this course with less than you came with.
It's hard but it's worth it. Actually go to lecture and take notes and do the readings outside of essay weeks or the final will be incredibly difficult.
This is a great class to take regardless of area of concentration. It didn't fulfill any requirements for me, but it was more than worth it.
