cool class; good overview of philosophy
I had studied a lot of the material before and so this didn't push me as much in terms of knowledge, but it definitely really helped my writing and is a good intro class with not much work if that's what you're looking for.
This was an easy class. Professor Bengson is smart and a great teacher. This class will most probably improve your philosophical writing a great deal if you put in enough work. The grading was very harsh though so if you expect an easy A, don't take this class. Also you don't have to buy textbooks for this class so that was nice
Take this class! As someone who never considered taking a philosophy class before, I'm so glad that this was my introduction to the subject. Bengson is a fantastic lecturer, and made every topic interesting and digestible. The assignments are very fun and not too difficult, but allow you to explore topics that interest you in further detail. Overall, a fantastic course that really makes you think about the world around you.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The content is fascinating and the course is well-taught. Despite engaging with advanced themes, the course is extremely accessible for students with no prior Philosophy experience. Professor Bengson places an emphasis on student learning and understanding, and he ensures that all assignments are fair. Overall, I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in an introduction to Philosophy!
A great class to build foundational skills in evaluating arguments, philosophical writing, raising objections, etc. Organized, supportive, accessible teaching staff.
Great introductory course to philosophy. Makes you think in new and obscure ways.
There is a specific style needed for success in this class, go to the writing fellow for the philosophy department for help early on if you cannot seem to adapt to the style.
If you are planning to pursue a secondary in Philosophy but have no or a little background though, this course is a perfect course for you, for it covers a very wide range of interesting subjects and gives a nice taste of some important ideas in Philosophy.
Extremely interesting course material. However, don't come in thinking it will be similar to a gen ed - there is significantly more work involved.
This is a very good introductory to philosophy class.  The material is relatively straight forward, but it's presented in an interesting way, and there are a lot of different thought experiments that are cool to ponder about.
A really interesting class with lots of great readings, Professor Bengson is amazing. You cover a large range of authors and topics, but the class definitely moves at a manageable pace.
This is a great introductory philosophy course.  The professor makes sure that the readings he assigns are manageable and pertinent to the class. Additionally, the teaching staff really helps you adjust to writing philosophical papers (the first two papers are ungraded).
Super interesting readings! Assignments were very open-ended and allowed for individual exploration.
Take it! You'll answer core life questions
