This was my first philosophy course and I truly loved it!  Professor Bagley brought out some great discussions from our class and the discussions were usually pretty fascinating and extremely relevant for college kids curious about morality.  I would highly recommend taking this course even if you have no prior philosophy experience and just have an interest in the topic.
Phenomenal class! Highly recommend if you enjoy discussing moral issues on either a practical or a theoretical level.
It is a great intro to philosophical thought that focuses more on more recent works/authors. If you're looking for an intro in the the historic philosophical canon this might not be the course for you, but if you're looking to see what the practice of philosophy is all about, this is a great course to start with.
If you read the readings and participate in discussions, this is a really fun class!
The readings are dense and long. Be prepared to spend some time trying to figure them out. However, a good understanding of the material is worthwhile because the discussions are so engaging. Prof Bagley is a great and engaging professor.
This class gives a very comprehensive view of morality and is much more applicable to real life than many would expect. This class gives you many new perspectives on different moral situations and was just a real last. I highly recommend it.The instructors are very kind and understanding and are incredibly willing to talk. If you have any problems you can email them and they will be more than willing to talk to you and work them out. Also best office hours I have ever had, if you take a class with Professor Bagley you have to meet with him. We would talk for over an hour every time and it was great.
An interesting introduction to morality with a variety of philosophical perspectives
Take it! What a good and interesting introduction to philosophy. Recommend highly.
Interesting class of ethical dilemmas - makes you think towards your reasoning
Philosophy 13 will change the way you view morality forever.
Just the right amount of eccentricity in the professor. Lectures are fun and professor is well-prepared.
Interesting class, but it could be slightly better organized
Great course. Bagely is a great and interesting lecturer, and it was clear that the syllabus was chosen with great care. The class expectations were more than fair. He had us do very little reading but expected that it was close reading. Lectures really were more discussion based than anything else. And the paper topics were great. I felt like I learned a ton writing the papers. That's not something I can say of most of my classes.
This is a fantastic first philosophy course. It's almost exclusively discussion based (so take that as you will) but Prof Bagley knows this stuff and deftly guides the discussion to hit the important points.  He's a really sharp guy who loves the material and clearly cares a lot about his students. So if nothing else, take the course for him.
I found this course to be a great introduction to morality and philosophy in general. I learned how to write a philosophy paper (pro tip: you don't need to have an epiphany) and how to read philosophy. The way the course is structured makes the material digestible and you improve your philosophy reading skill so by the time you read Kant and Bernard Williams, they are not as difficult as you might imagine them to be. You should be committed to doing the reading, but besides that the workload is not too difficult. There are only 2 graded papers and a final paper. The class discussion is also good when everyone participates, so hopefully you will be interested in the material and participate.
Be active in discussions to argue the morality of these different subjects.
Really nice intro to philosophy - low workload, interesting discussion topics, and clear guidance on how to write a philosophy paper.
You get what you put in. That being said, this is a very thought provoking class. You begin to analyze situations in ways that you never thought you would or could be able to. The professor and section leader are both very nice. No homework assignments just readings and essays. I would highly recommend this class to anyone who wants to take a intro to morality class
Take this class if you have already have an interest in philosophy or ethics. This class will probably not make you fall in love with philosophy. The workload is not bad, just two papers +final/paper. There are two short readings a week.
Take it pass fail. It gives a lot of good background to well known philosophers constantly being referenced in other courses. The work is basically optional, but so helpful to know these things.
This course was a really great introductory course to philosophy. The readings can be a bit tough (Kant...ugh). But the professor is super animated and engaging. Papers are fairly simple and straightforward. I would recommend this course for anyone who wants to learn about different basic moral arguments.
I loved this class! It was so interesting! If you're looking for a solid intro to philosophy class, I would highly recommend it.
Great course and Prof. Bagley has been my favorite so far, but the reading can be dense and difficult. A moderately large time commitment.
