If you want to fulfill your gen ed requirement, don't take this class. There are easier classes that can do that.  However there are situations where this class might be appropriate for you.  For example, if you hate yourself take this class.
It's hardly a a relevant exploration of "equality and liberty"
This course will probably be the best, or tied with the best course I ever take. Scanlon is one of the clearest lecturers I have ever seen, and the material will quite literally change how you think about concrete instances of justice or injustice in the real world. I cannot emphasize just how important this course is for anyone in most fields, or for anyone who cares about justice generally in their life. This is what philosophy classes ought to be like.
Scanlon is a boss
I don't actually know if this class will be offered again, but the only reason to take it would be if it was taught by Scanlon.
This is a great class if you're at all interested in politics, civics, social studies, economics or just like thinking deeply about interesting things. The class provides an amazing framework for thinking about how we set up societies and what structures are best. It delves into fundamental questions about fairness and equality. Really good for thinking about big-picture stuff like that, but also arms you with some great tools for when you're talking with your friends in the dhall about a government policy, a new Harvard initiative, or anything that affects the ways communities are structured. Great class. Hopefully Prof. Scanlon doesn't retire and Noel TFs in the future.
Be aware that there are many responses to these figures which are not included on the syllabus. If you feel frustrated with the material and not agreeing with it but can't formulate an argument, reach out to the TFs whom I am sure can direct to you to further sources.
If you're interested in political philosophy or theory, then you'd be crazy not to take this course. That said, if you aren't, you might find it a bit hard to stay motivated.
Great introduction to the topic
It's a great introduction to political philosophy, and to questions about why it matters to have equality and liberty in society.
Professor Scanlon is great, but the material is very dense and the applicability of the subject is questionable.
If this course ever runs again, and you have the privilege of having the opportunity to take it, take it. Please. You won't regret it.
The course is fabulous! A lot of great readings, challenging but fascinating ideas that appeal to your inner conservative, liberal, socialist etc. The teaching staff is extremely competent. Go to office hours!
If Prof. Scanlon teaches this course again, take it. Whether you come in with ideas from the left, the right (as I did), or nowhere in particular, this course imparts a foundation of ideas and questions that you'll keep thinking about. I'm so glad I had a chance to take this in my eight and final semester here. It's a solid but manageable amount of reading, and a lot of thinking on top of that. But this is the sort of course that the Gen Ed program here should be focused on. I took it as an economics concentrator with no philosophy background and found it engaging and fascinating.
Definitely take this course if you have any interest in thinking about justice or fairness. Scanlon is an incredible lecturer and the course is designed, in my opinion, pretty flawlessly. It was the best TF-led section experience I have had through four years at Harvard.
If you are at all interested in more modern political philosophy and the implications it still has today, this course is great - It really surveys a whole host of different ideas and angles from which to view how liberty, equality, and the basic structures of our society operate.
Tim Scanlon is a genius, and he will make you think about distributive justice in ways you have never imagined.
Great course -- Scanlon's an engaging, witty, and (obviously) knowledgeable lecturer. Papers were manageable (final was brutal), and readings were really enlightening. For someone with absolutely no clue about political philosophy before this course (I didn't know what liberalism was...), the course was relatively manageable and I learned a ton about the recent work in these areas of thought.
This course is a classic. Don't miss it. It will be very different without Scanlon, but oh well, the material is still important and fascinating and extremely well put together.
An intensive but rewarding class that challenges any pre-conceived notions that you may have had about the clash between the importance of individual autonomy and the intuitive appeal of egalitarianism and really forces you to grapple with the "big questions" about our society, our core beliefs, and the direction in which we're moving. Professor Scanlon is a fantastic lecturer, and the knowledge and ideas that you gain from this class can be applied to almost any field and any career - you won't regret taking it!
This class really opened my eyes to how many distinct ways of thinking exist upon how to arrange government and society.
Get ready to read! A lot!
Make sure you do the readings
Professor Scanlon is an excellent lecturer and his knowledge of the subject (as well as the philosophers read in the course) is unparalleled. The course covers some of the most important questions in political philosophy and politics, and serves as an excellent introduction to the field that also goes more deeply into several areas.
This was a great class and it's a real shame that Scanlon is retiring. He is the course.
Incredible class. Don't miss out.
I don't believe this course will be offered again, but I highly recommend taking any course that Professor Scanlon might teach in the future!
Scanlon is fantastic, but the course is on the dry side. You'll learn a lot of interesting stuff, but it'll be very much dry theory, so be prepared for that.
Good material, helpful professors and TFs
Scanlon is amazing. The topics are fantastic. Take this course.
do the readings! it will make the class more fun and less stressful at the end and they are actually pretty interesting
This is an excellent course. Challenging in some ways, though not in others; the reading is manageable and none of the material is too difficult, but the papers can be a little tricky, especially for those who don't have much experience in philosophy. Hearing Professor Scanlon lecture is something I look forward to each week, and Richard was a great TF. I'm really glad I took it!
Excellent class, invest time in doing the readings and always contrast pairs of thinkers with each other and think about the areas in which they agree and disagree.
This class is great if you are interested in political philosophy as applied to a certain topic, equality and liberty. If not, I wouldn't recommend this course, as you might find the material too narrow. Scanlon is a great professor, but if you don't like a lecture format, then this might not be the course for you.
As a philosophy concentrator, I found this to be a good, interesting course. Do the readings--they're actually very good!
Really a gem. I took this class to read Theory of Justice, basically, and I was extremely pleased with how the course went and what the course enabled me to do. Most importantly, Scanlon is a national treasureif you are at all interested in the kind of material the class offers, Scanlon has the authority of one of the most important moral philosophers around while still being a remarkably nice, approachable human being, and a terrific lecturer to boot. The one thing I will say is that the topics at the end of the class are a bit weaker and less interesting (though still great). If you're wondering, I'll also say that this was my first formal Philosophy classI'd come from Social Studies 10 the previous yearand thought that it was challenging while still remaining fair and definitely doable. Highly recommended!
If one cares about philosophy, Prof. Scanlon is worth hearing talk for a semester.
The material for this course is necessary to understand 20th century moral and social thought. Scanlon is a central figure and a good lecturer, but there were too many grad students from different skill levels and section was awful.
This course grapples with very interesting and personally/socially relevant questions, and does a good job of overviewing various different ways of thinking about justice and--you guessed it--equality and liberty. Lectures unfortunately were not the most engaging for me, but section was much more so. I took this as a gen ed - definitely not a fly-through gen ed, but I think more substantive than most (without having too bad a workload) if you want that.
Professor Scanlon in an amazing professor who's eloquence and method of contrasting views are truly remarkable.
If you want a taste of libertarianism, liberalism (both liberal and conservative), socialism, and communitarianism, take this course.  A fantastic overview of modern political philosophy that is no more than a survey, though it reaches fantastic depths of thought.  Scanlon is a gem in suspenders, though his lectures can be difficult to follow: this is one of the courses in which the readings help you to understand lecture rather than the other way around.
This class is extremely interesting, but philosophy is harder than I expected- the fact that it's listed on the GenEd website is somewhat misleading. Most people have a philosophy background. That being said, if you want to challenge yourself in a gen-ed, you learn some interesting stuff, and I think that learning to write for philosophy is a valuable skill. It forces you to slow down your thinking in an interesting way.
This is a great class on moral philosophy. If you're interested to know how Rawls's Theory of Justice relates to the ideas of G.A. Cohen, Robert Nozick, Friedrich Hayek, Thomas Nagel etc., do take it. It's not an easy class, but at the end you will find yourself being able to think deeply about questions of justice.
This class made me realize that political philosophy is by far the most interesting and exciting part of philosophy. I didn't have too much experience with it beforehand, but we covered many major figures in political philosophy over the last few decades, and the questions you explore in this course are just so relevant to real life - they're great to think about on a philosophical level and also on a dining-hall/dinner-party level, and Scanlon is a great, great lecturer (and has some pretty cool personal anecdotes about John Rawls)! I came in basically not having any views on equality, liberty, fairness, and justice, and left with a bunch - pretty much what you're looking for in a course in college.
I would really like to be able to recommend this class. The readings are thought-provoking, the topics are so important, and Prof. Scanlon is a wonderful human being and amazing teacher. It is a joy to go to class and be taught by him. But the TFs just don't have the kind of seriousness or expertise in the subject that they should. This may be an issue with the philosophy department in general, which suffers from an extraordinary dearth of political philosophy professors, but I was disappointed in the quality of teaching by those aside from Scanlon. If you are interested in political philosophy, this is basically your only option in the whole department, and I would still recommend it to anyone who is interested in the subject. But be prepared.
This was one of my favorite courses I have taken at Harvard. Professor Scanlon is an incredibly fascinating professor, both as a teacher and as a contemporary of many of the people we read throughout the course. His personal stories helped bring some of the readings to life and add more flavor to the course. Although this isn't an introductory level philosophy course and many people in the course have prior experience working with such texts, if you can convince yourself to take the course for yourself, you definitely should. I always thought of myself as someone who thought of things much more practically, but this course has made me truly interested in greater philosophical questions.
Great opportunity to take this class with a living legend. Take it while you can!
If you're just looking to fulfill your ER requirement, take Justice instead. It's flashier and lays out the big ideas in a more accessible way. If you're a philosophy concentrator, this is the class for you. Professor Scanlon is brilliant, wry, and has a knack for isolating interesting issues in the theories of Rawls and Nozick. Go to lecture -- Scanlon has fascinating personal anecdotes about the philosophers you're reading, as many were his former colleagues. Don't buy the $350+ of books though -- all the readings are posted online.
Great course, a high-level introduction to contemporary political philosophy.
The material is so interesting and lectures are generally great. It can be challenging, for sure, but worth it.
Don't take it unless you REALLY like philosophy and especially Rawls
Jeremy the TF gave very detailed, helpful comments on essays.  Very timely feedback to emails (usually within 4 minutes.)  He was also hilarious.Sometimes section was helpful in understanding the material, often only the main points were recanted.I found it much more helpful to underline the texts, read thoroughly, and highlight and bring genuine confusions to Scanlon.  He is a very clear, very sharp discussion partner.  He is also nice and appreciative of students' efforts and insightful questions.  I would recommend going to office hours as often as possible, meeting with the TF for any further questions, and working hard on the papers.  The material is exciting, fascinating, and very relevant to our lives.  Worth the effort!
Scanlon is excellent.
We all hold some kind of political view, and this class tests everyone one of them, and sharpens you're knowledge of debates on politics, namely what is fair and equal
Take this class for two reasons:First, the readings are awesome. They survey a broad range of inequality literature, letting you feel you've seen a lot of the field, but also spend substantial time on influential thinkers. You'll feel very prepared to talk about Rawls and Nozick in particular, but will read a ton of other great writers.Second, Professor Scanlon is an absolute giant in the field and lends completely unique insight to the topics you'll discuss. He says at the beginning of class that part of his goal in offering this course is to explore his views on equality and liberty further. His lectures don't just rehash the reading but offer his own thoughts on trying to resolve the difficult conflicts that come up between authors. I'm not sure you'll get to hear about ideas like the "reverse Lockean proviso" anywhere else!
