If you like Philosophy, Kant is really a genius, and this book will likely change the way you look at the world. It takes work to begin to understand him though.
The material is certainly difficult, but the effort required is both enjoyable and productive.
Fun, challenging class that will make you think.
Do not take this course unless you have a very solid understanding of metaphysics already.
This was a very good, challenging, thorough philosophy class. Masrour is extremely knowledgeable about Kant; not only is he extremely familiar with the material, but he also has really interesting, well-formed views about it. Walden as a TF is also extremely knowledgeable and a great resource; if you go to his office hours, he'll direct you to other sources, give you very straightforward advice, etc. This is a challenging class; it's Kant, and Kant is hard. But I took it as my first upper level philosophy class (I had Phil 3 under my belt), and while it was very challenging, it was definitely doable. You'll work hard, but you'll learn a hell of a lot, and get really deep into the really fascinating thought of one of the world's most influential philosophers.
This class is a very rigorous look at the central issues of the Critique of Pure Reason that you should take only if you are willing to devote a lot of time to it.
If you are interested in Kant, take this course. The First Critique is one of  the most important works in the history of philosophy and it is a real opportunity to devote an entire course to just that one work.
You don't understand Kant before you study him very carefully, and even then he's still very hard to understand. But this course is totally necessary for anyone who wants to have the real groundwork to understand later analytic and continental philosophy. Plus Kant is crazy and cool.
The material is extremely difficult. However, the payoff is immensely rewarding and Kant is such a fascinating thinker that it's worth going through his terrible prose to get to the philosophical meat of his ideas.
Excellent class. It helps to actually do the secondary reading that is mentioned.
If you are really interested in philosophy, The Critique of Pure Reason is a must.  However, if you are just somewhat curious about philosophy, this might not be the right course for you.
The class is challenging but extremely rewarding.
If Professor Boyle teaches it, and/or Tom Fehse is the TF, take it. Otherwise, shop it and think carefully about it--Kant is filled with magic, but only when the right people are exposing it.
You have to really like Kant and challenges if you're gonna take this course.
Be prepared to work hard to grasp the material - but this course is as good as it gets if you want a grasp of one of the most amazing minds ever (Kant).
This is a very difficult course. Only take it if you are familiar with philosophy in its structured and rigorous academic setting. This is not idle philosophozing.
It is a difficult class and requires that you put time into reading the book thoroughly. It is a very good class though and the Critique is an excellent piece of work.
I loved the course, but it was very difficult
This course is an engaging and difficult trek through the First Critique. I would recommend it to anyone with interests in the history of philosophy.
This is a great class on Kant's theory of knowledge; however, be prepared for some very hard reading.
Kant's first Critique is mammoth of a book! Please take this course! It's one of the most influential works in philosophy and influenced nearly all of subsequent Western philosophy. As a concentrator, or student, you owe it to yourself to get familiar with it. Prof. Boyle is great and engaged, recommend highly!
Kant is pretty important, and the Critique of Pure Reason is the main reason why. Reading it on your own be terrible, so if you're interested in Kant you should definitely take this course. Prof. Boyle is a good lecturer too.
Do you want to learn about the Critique, or Kant's critical philosophy / transcendental idealism? This is the class to do that, and it's a great class.
Definitely not a first time philosophy class. Dedicating a class to a single text means that time can be spent going deeply into concepts, looking at fully what they first mean and then refutations to those concepts (and then how Kant might respond to those objections). Expect to go through several levels of understanding - first just from the text, then from lecture, then from section, and finally when you write a paper on something.^ All of these are equally positive and equally negative.
This course was extremely hard. The essays were graded harshly and the overall expectations for the course were too high, perhaps because so many grad students were taking the course along with undergrads. I will not recommend this course at all unless you are a philosophy concentrator or you need it for your concentration or thesis research. I took it as an elective and it ended up being a horrible decision. It is too difficult and troublesome and at the end I found no use of Kant's critique of pure reason. Perhaps a course on his practical reason and moral philosophy would be of better use for social science people.
Read secondary literature on the Critique of Pure Reason before you come to the class so that you have a general idea of the structure of the book and the arguments.
This course is hard, as the Critique of Pure Reason is probably the densest book I've ever attempted to tackle.  But it will quite literally change the way you think by investigating the process of thinking itself.
