Great for people interested in a wide survey of ethical thought; course work isn't arduous, and Prof. Doyle is clearly an expert in the material he lectures on. Shopping it once will be fairly representative of the rest of the semester (what you see is what you get)
This class tells a great story. This stuff is very practical. It'll make you a better person.
I would recommend this course if you really want to immerse yourself in philosophy rather than taking a watered down ER course. However, this course requires serious legwork if you want to get a lot out of it. It can feel unrewarding because you submit weekly questions that only sometimes get answered.
Doyle is the best lecturer you will ever encounter at Harvard. He makes the week-to-week work extremely manageable and provides insanely great handouts each lecture. Also, his actual lecturing ability is top-notch. Doyle's lectures are off the cuff yet eloquent. I feel like I've learned so much about ethics, morality, and their history.
This class is the perfect way to get an exposure to the work of some of the greatest ethicists in history. You will leave the course with an overall picture of the most significant issues in ethics and metaethics. Prof. Doyle is a fantastic professor and is incredibly knowledgeable about philosophy in general. If you do take this class, please do go talk to him as he is absolutely welcoming and will not only help you clarify the material for the class but also introduce you to new concepts and ideas from other areas of philosophy.
Professor Doyle is a really committed professor. The best thing you can do is going to his office hours. The nature of philosophy is such that if you're interested in the material, your thirst will not be quenched in lecture. And when you do go to his office hours, he is very warmly welcoming. He will give you his time and will address all your queries with useful advice and suggestions. Even if you dont have specific questions in mind, just go to talk to him about impressions you got from the material you read. This is what will leave an impact on you from the reading material -TALKING ABOUT IT!! The class offers a particular narrative about the history of ethics but Prof Doyle keeps you aware of that. I was personally quite convinced at most points by the story of ethics that Prof Doyle told, but of course there were times when that was not the case. Take the course if you're interested in how humans have thought about what the right way to live is. If the 'threat of nihilism' seems important to you, you will naturally be drawn towards this course. Take and dont forget to visit Jimmy!!
This course is an effective, broad entryway into philosophy. While at times it may seem disorganized, this fact is more than compensated for by Prof. Doyle's warmth and enthusiasm, as well as his readiness to meet and engage with his students outside of class.
really great professor who explains things very clearly
This course is very much a sit-down-and-absorb-knowledge type of course, which is made easy by Professor Doyle's charismatic and easy-going lecture style. Doyle is a treat to listen to, and if you are interested in the underlying material, you will be excited to go to lecture every week. Regardless of your prior understanding of morality, you will come out of this course with a fresh perspective. Although the rigour of this course is on par with other introductory courses, it's likely even more experienced philosophy students would benefit from this course.
With a better organization, this course has the potential to be one of those rare survey courses to philosophy that gives the student a pretty solid understanding of the main ethical thinkers in the history of philosophy.
It is a fantastic course. It is the first philosophy course I have taken, but I found Professor Doyle to be incredibly interesting to listen to and he is a very eloquent lecturer.
Hard but rewarding
The readings are incredibly dense and hard to get through and typically aren't posted online until a few days before they're due so you can't get through them all. Lectures are really unstructured and hard to follow.  Takes a long time to get feedback on writing assignments
