I really liked this course a lot.  As an intro course that went through a lot of major philosophers and their works, we still covered each with a surprising amount of depth.  Afterward, I didn't feel short-changed on any subject.  The readings tended to be interesting despite some taking way longer than others, but Prof. Nickel always made sense of them in the lectures so you didn't have to worry if you weren't fully understanding what was going on in the reading.Prof. Nickel is one of the best lecturers for all the classes I've taken, and I think that's a major part of why I liked this course so much.
I would recommend this class to anyone who is interested in reading, interpreting, and forming opinions on the issues discussed in the works of Descartes, Kant, Aquinus, etc., and is willing to put in some serious effort into the readings and papers. The class spans over a range of subfields of philosophy, but goes into a good level of detail into the individual questions and arguments. Lecture is very clear and well-organized, and engaging.
Bernard is probably one of the best professors at this school and you'd be wise to take this class and learn as much as you can from him. I wasn't in his section, but if it works for your schedule, I would definitely try to get in his section
Try and stay awake during lecture.
it's awesome, but be warned: not an easy gen ed!
Phil 3 was a highlight of my first semester. It is challenging, yet not stressful. If you enjoy thinking about the world around you and want a sweeping introduction to philosophy taught by invested and engaging teachers, this class is for you.
Fantastic course with amazing teaching staff. Would highly recommend
If you're curious about philosophy and are willing to devote the attention needed to get something out of the study of it, this is an excellent introductory course. It provides a nice survey of a number of areas of study within philosophy. The readings are interesting and not overwhelming, though some can be difficult to get through. Also, Professor Nickel is a great lecturer and really makes the class worthwhile. If he happens to be teaching a section, try to get into it.
Definitely form a study group for the exams and have everyone come up with good summaries for each reading. It is very likely that you won't do them all (I didn't), but a detailed summary of them is enough to do well on the midterms. if you also go to the review sessions for the final, you will certainly do very well on them.
This class was incredibly engaging, well-taught, and not at all stressful! It allowed for a simultaneously leisurely while extensive introduction to Western philosophy. The professor was electric and very good at his job, the TFs were amiable and helped create an engaging learning environment as well. Of course, you have to be interested in philosophy to enjoy the class, but even if you aren't this class is made interesting by being taught so well.
This course is a fantastic introduction to the field of philosophy. The teaching staff are incredibly invested in the course and the students. You get a lot more out of the course if you are prepared to really spend time on the readings and think about them. In other words, this really isn't an easy gen ed course. It requires work, but you will come out of it as a better and more systematic thinker.
This class is really fun! Nickel is a great lecturer. Just do all the readings and you'll be fine.
Professor Nickel is a really great professor and is so passionate about philosophy. Definitely go to his office hours!
This class is interesting if you are looking to learn about how past philosophers' thought, and you'll be part of a discussion once per week. This class consists of many lectures, and most people think that Bernhard Nickel is a good lecturer. The sections you'll be in once per week are also very good. However, the grades in this course seem even more arbitrary than most humanities classes. If you are worried about getting a B, don't take this class unless you are comfortable writing papers for humanities courses.
Take it. You'll see life's problems a little differently.
Make sure you know something about philosophy before taking this class!
The lectures were boring and the midterm put way too much emphasis on trying to remember the names of philosophers, though I would have gotten more out of a class that taught the ideas of the philosophers but also allowed me to synthesize my own ideas. Section was good and the assignments (three essays) were enjoyable. But they enjoyment from those did not outdo the negatives from lecture,
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Bernhard is an inspiring professor and person who will make you passionate about the subject material. The class is taught in informative, interesting,  lectures with an engaging section component. There is a fair amount of reading as it's important to your understanding that you read all the material, but it is engaging for the most part and a solid introduction to philosophy.
must be willing to put in time/work. very thorough intro class. it's amazing yet time intensive both in and outside of class (it's 3 days a week and weekly section). you'll learn lots of philosophical content and learn how to write for philosophy, which is great!
I cannot think of a better first course in philosophy. Nickel is a great lecturer and has set up the course in such a way that one can get a very good feeling for how a variety of different philosophical questions connect to each other. The TFs Jen and Rachel were great, and their feedback and help on essays really helped me become a better writer. I enjoyed most of the readings, and Nickel's lecturing really helped illuminate anything that was hard to grasp at first (Kant), or that I didn't have time to get through on my own.
Generally a good course, teaching staff is approachable and knowledgeable. Attendance is taken at all lectures (not just sections) so make sure you show up. Reading quizzes online for basically all the readings can be a bit of a hassle, especially if you forget about them. Make sure you keep on track and don't procrastinate, definitely make use of office hours, as they can really help guide your thinking into something constructive.
Phil 3 is a pretty difficult intro class. While the assignments are manageable, the grading is very strict. The information is more interesting in the beginning than near the end. It meets pretty frequently including movies that they assign you to watch. While there is a lot of help available for essay writing, it's still a challenge to produce quality work that will satisfy the criterion. You do learn how to argue for a philosophical claim and learn how arguments are structured, which is likely useful for good arguing.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Definitely not easy, but worth it. You get everything out that you put in.
If you haven't worked with philosophy before, be prepared to encounter a new way of reading, thinking and writing that requires hard work and patience.  If you're interested in the material, though, it will be worth it.
This was such a cool class, and one of the only ones that I felt like actually fulfilled the Gen Ed mission (although I wouldnt recommend taking it just as a Gen Ed because it deserves a lot more effort and attention). The content is consistently interesting  covering a range of topics including knowledge, ethics, personal identity, death, and theology  and while the daily reading quizzes made staying on top of the material necessary, the readings were never very long. Professor Nickel is great at starting discussions in lecture, and he makes a point of stopping frequently for questions to make sure everyone is on the same page. After writing all the papers (I think there were 5?), I feel a heck of a lot more prepared to think and write clearly about tough philosophical concepts, which is a great skill to carry over into other classes. Highly recommend!
This course is an interesting course. It provides a great intro to philosophy, so if you have not taken it, this is a good course to start with. I had never taken philosophy, and this course was great for me. This is a bit of a time commitment. There will be readings every other day. However, the material is gone over in class, so you probably will not be confused about much of the material. The readings are somewhat interesting, but they get progressively less interesting as the semester goes on. Not by much though. Overall, this is a good class, and I would recommend it.
Really interesting material, but getting to the point of essays or subjects can be more difficult than necessary. The class is taught engagingly, but it can be easy to lose track of discussions and lecture. The philosophy paper writing process can be very frustrating and at times seem overwhelming.
I would recommend it to anyone, even if you are not going to study philosophy. It is a great, fairly in-depth survey of all the timeless most pressing philosophical issues. If you do the reading and put in the work, it is very rewarding.
This is a general education course that is absolutely worth the time and effort. It isn't one of those courses where force yourself to memorize the textbook and commit useless facts to memory. Philosophy, specifically material from this class, applies to virtually every decision and activity in every day life--to me, the class is worth way more than just a general education fulfillment.
This is a brilliant intro to philosophy, Nickel gives really good lectures. Exams and assignments are fair
IT IS AMAZING. Lectures are incredible, Nickel is honestly a gem. He is so funny and makes it so interesting. the readings are manageable and very interesting. I love this course so much and I am going to miss it. PLEASE TAKE THIS if you are thinking of getting a general foundational knowledge of philosophy.
Have to be already interested in Philosophy.
Subjective grading and a difficult midterm will make this class hard to get a good grade in. If you are a science person trying to explore the humanities, I advice you to steer away from the course.
Great intro to philosophy, and Prof. Nickel is AWESOME - the powerpoint slides were fantastic, clear, and highlighted terms so that we could read other philosophy papers and know the common language clearly. Writing assignments were geared towards learning, and I think I improved my overall writing, not just for philosophy papers. Prof. Nickel is just great at conveying the complex ideas and using relatable examples to clarify. The topics covered were also really interesting, and overall a good survey of problems philosophy has tackled, or at least tried to.
Boring, busy work, graded harshly.
The course tried to cover way too much material. I dont feel connected to any of the readings besides the one I wrote papers on. There were a lot and they were very long. Usually we only went through like the first half in lecture so if I did manage to read all of it, it sometimes felt pointless.
This course is amazing, Bernhard is amazing, and you will love going to lectures. The material is so engaging and no matter what your background in philosophy is, you will find this class rewarding. Take the class! (And do the readings!!! ~~Important~~)
Everyone should take this class! As a survey of topics in philosophy, it is a great sampling of ideas that effect pretty much all human endeavors. This is an intellectually rigorous class, which I loved. It's probably possible to do the bare minimum amount of work for this class and get a good grade, but you'll get so much more out of it if you put in more effort. Professor Nickel is the best professor I've had at Harvard, and possibly the best teacher I've ever had. I actually looked forward to Mondays because of the lecture for this class.
This is a great course if you're looking to try out philosophy. It really makes you think and reconsider your beliefs. The readings are very interesting and not too difficult or time-consuming. Professor Nickel is a very engaging lecturer, though discussions in section were more interesting.
TAKE THIS CLASS YOU WILL LOVE IT!
I loved this class. Bernard is the best professor I've had at Harvard. The philosophical problems that are discussed are incredible. I literally feel so much wiser after taking this. If you're thinking about this class, I cannot recommend it enough!
Talk to your TF about your ideas for the paper-- this is best after you've really thought through the material.
I wish I had taken this before Social Studies 10, because even though they are very different, the exactness of thinking the Phil 3 requires would have helped me in social theory.I highly recommend this course for anyone, of any concentration.
Phil 3 is an easy grade with light coursework and a good lecturer.  Whether you really want to sink your teeth into "the problems of philosphy" is up to you, but it won't have much bearing on your mark as long as your able to participate.  A basic understanding of the concepts is enough for the papers and the exam.  You get what you put in.
Professor Nickel intimidates students who ask questions but the course is interesting and enjoyable overall
It is interesting, but if you are looking for a rigorous introduction to philosophy this is not the course for you.
Professor Nickel is a great lecturer and very approachable outside of class.  This class is great for students looking for a taste of Philosophy, either as their only Philosophy class at Harvard or as their first of many classes in the field.
This is a great class if you haven't taken philosophy before. I don't see how anyone could find the subject matter boring. The readings are diverse and not too long. It is very interesting to read various philosophers' opinions and choose which ones you agree with.
it'll change the way you fight (in a good way)
NICKEL ROCKS!
some of the topics and readings are really interesting and some are really boring or frustrating, but all in all it's a nice intriduction to philosophy that requires no background in the subject
That it's a great introduction to the world of philosophy and if they've ever considered taking a class in this subject area, here would be a great place to start.
Take it if you have any interest in philosophy.
It is a low-pressure class that is great if you're interested in philosophy.
This class is a lot of fun and will change the way you think about things you thought were commonplace. It's also pretty easy and so it would be good for an interesting elective class.
A great introduction to many key concepts of philosophy, philosophers, and methods of studying and practicing philosophy, though it may not be exactly what you expect.
It is easy and kinda interesting
Grading quite difficult, but workload extremely manageable and material genuinely interesting.
Great introduction to the big questions in philosophy. You get as much out of it as you put in, so if you really want to maximise your experience in this class, do the readings and participate actively in section. 8/10 would recommend.
It is a lot of work and grades are usually pretty bad. One cannot improve through quizzes, just worsen their grade.
This class will remind you at lot of high school classes, in all the good and the bad ways.
Great introduction to philosophy. It is not necessarily a easy, discussion-based course but there are great readings that provide great insight into philosophy.
This class is really interesting and will make you feel like a balanced person overall. There is almost no homework, and if you communicate with your teaching fellows when writing your final paper everything turns out pretty well.
This class is a good class. By no means is it a life changing class, but definitely solid. It gives you a great overview of the different spheres of philosophy (from Ethics to Rational Theology), and Bernhard Nickel is an enthusiastic lecturer. I found the sections to be very helpful in helping workout some of the harder concepts taught in the lectures. Each friday there were "labs" that felt forced at times, but were never awful. I definitely recommend taking this class if you have an interest in philosophy, but don't have the experience to jump into an upper level course, or just want to wet your feet in the philosophical realm.
This is a broad intro to philosophy, and the concepts can sometimes seem very general or unsatisfying. It will quickly make you realize whether you buy into philosophical arguments or not. The material is interesting but some of it can seem impractical or hard to reason with.
The class is an overall examination, so naturally it contains a lot of very different topics. Understanding the argument can be quite difficult, so a lot of time is required by the course. Professor Nickel's office hours are great; I recommend going there at least once during the course.
Interesting, but take it pass fail - the assessments are annoying for a variety of reasons.
This is a great introduction to philosophy. The focus is on making and understanding arguments, which is an important skill to have. You will learn the methodology of studying philosophy, which is unlike other disciplines.
Overall, a good introduction to philosophy.  Note that this does not count for the ethical reasoning GenEd,so don't take it if that's all you're interested in.  It is very easy to stop doing the reading when the semester gets busy.  Try not to do that, because there were a few weeks were I stopped reading and got very little out of the class because of my own laziness.
There's a lot more memorization than I thought there would be. The lectures are kind of dry and boring unless you really like the subject, so be prepared for that. If you get Zeynep for your TF, she's great.
Great class if you want to find out if you like philosophy or not. I realized it wasn't my cup of tea, but still very interesting.
Very interesting class to take. Quintessential Harvard course.
This course is pretty good, especially if you have no idea if you'd like to study philosophy, but would rather just dabble in the field as a whole. The teaching method is a bit different than other courses - a decent part of the course is memorization of arguments and definitions. However, this seems like a good way to engrain the jargon/style/technique of philosophy into one's mind. The workload isn't overwhelming, and the essays are straightforward. One reservation, though, is that the lectures can get kind of dry. The actual content is pretty interesting, nevertheless.
You have to be aware that this is very much a survey course. Also, though the essays are graded to a high standard, it doesn't really require too much work besides the papers. This is a good thing and a bad thing. It's a good thing for obvious reasons...who likes to slave over classes? It's a bad thing because if you're taking this class it's because you want to learn philosophy, but let's be honest. When it's the middle of the semester and you want to be done already, you have to identify those classes you can afford to slacken your grip on for the sake of the harder obligations. This class is the class you can slacken your grip on, but I regretted doing that because in the end I didn't really learn too much about philosophy. So that's my major warning to you. Take the class but really dive deep if you truly want the education, because it'll be easy to put this class on the back burner. But for real, it's not too hard to do well if you really work to perfect your essays. The outside commitment is minimal.
The course is very interesting and I enjoyed it very much. The lecturer is fantastic and it is fun to come to lecture. I would say though be prepared to do a lot of reading because it is important to do the reading in order to understand what is going on in lecture.
This course is exactly what you'd expect of an introductory course in philosophy. We covered a wide breadth of material, but nothing in very much depth. It was a nice elective due to its very low workload and straightforward essays. Professor Nickel and Zeynep were both very good at explaining ideas clearly, and their enthusiasm for philosophy made the course an enjoyable experience.
Good class for freshmen to get eased into Harvard. It babies you a little bit, and while it is a good survey, some of the units are rather dense and boring. Prof. Nickel really does good work in making everyone feel comfortable, but overall it was a course that just felt very, very intro-level, from the revision essay to the weekly quizzes to bolding your thesis.
Easy but interesting. A great class to take if you're just looking for something interesting.
This is a great intro class that's not too heavy on reading and covers several different time periods of philosophy.
This course is a good introduction to the questions of philosophy, but doesn't do much to help you formulate answers. The real thinking happens in section (and sometimes it's awesome!); lectures aren't the most engaging.
This is a great intro philosophy class.  The professor and TF are really accessible, and the topics are incredibly interesting.  Though it seems challenging at first, you learn so much by the end that you have a great command of the topics and you're well prepared to write the essay and take the final.
You could take this class as an Intro to Philosophy if you're debating whether to concentrate in it or not, but it will count as elective.
Take this course if you have any interest in philosophy. It is rigorous, light on reading (in that the readings are very targeted and dense, but short, you will have to read all of them twice to participate actively and get the most out of the class but they are short (20 pages/week tops), and extremely well taught by Professor Nickel. You will never see philosophy the same again, and if you haven't thought about issues like death and free will before you may never see life the same way again. Classic Harvard course, exactly the way you pictured it before you came here. Take it!!
This class is 100 times better than Justice.
This course is helpful if you want a general understanding of philosophy but you can learn everything without going to lecture simply by doing the readings and reading the lecture notes.
This is a great class.  Professor Nickel is fantastic.  I really appreciated this class not counting as a gen ed.  Everyone enrolled was very engaged in the material which made for really interesting class discussions and sections as they were either taking the class for their concentration or as an elective.
It's a great introduction to philosophy and you should only take it if Nickel's teaching it.
Read the readings and lecture notes faithfully. It'll make your life exponentially less complicated. Also, don't think you can do it all on your own. Meet with your peers to workshop ideas and ask questions. Philosophy wasn't meant to be a solo gig.
This course is a very good intro to philosophy. It covers a lot of topics, although it doesn't go very in-depth, which can be frustrating at times. The lectures are thought-provoking, but the professor's strict attitude can make speaking up in class intimidating. Also, the readings are meaningful and short, so there isn't a lot of work for the class. Further, it is very in teaching the art of argument in writing. Overall, it's an interesting course worth taking.
Be prepared to be very confused. Also accept the fact that you might leave every class without a definite answer to what is being taught. However, you feel very accomplished once you actually understand the material.
This class is exactly what it claims to be, a good introduction to philosophy. If you have any prior experience with philosophy, it could be a little frustrating. Sometimes I felt like I was being walked through things when I was very capable and wanted to think through them myself, and potentially come to different conclusions than the professor came to. The writing assignments are short and pretty straightforward, so there isn't that much room for exciting new thought. That being said, it is good for getting exposure to a lot of different philosophic subjects, and all of them are fascinating.
A great introduction-- the units on epistemology, ethics and free will are especially engaging. Worth taking just to have professor Nickel for a semester.  To to his office hours! He's great.
This course will challenge you to think in ways you haven't before, especially if you've never taken any philosophy classes previously. The readings are fascinating, the lectures are really engaging, and the teaching staff is extremely helpful.
The last lecture is AMAZING
You need to have a real hunger for philosophical learning, otherwise you won't make the most of your time in it.
This is a good course to take if you want to see what philosophy is all about.
Take this course if you want to find out if love philosophy, and most likely you'll find you do.
it's just an awesome class. you talk openly about big philosophical questions that there may not be a right answer to, but you will definitely feel cathartic about your new knowledge of the right questions.
I would tell them that you have to be willing to get into a completely different mindset for this course but that you'll read some interesting texts.
Phil 3 covers an extremely wide range of topics, and does not go into much depth on any of them, but does a great job in showing the connections between different fields.  I think that this is a great starting point for any potential concentrators, or a good elective that covers many important theories.  The readings in this course are mostly famous philosophers making well-known arguments so if you're looking to impress family at thanksgiving dinner then this class is for you.  Professor Nickel is also an awesome guy, he gives good lectures and is accessible and friendly.
This was one of the best classes I've ever taken. Professor Nickel is a fantastic lecturer, and it's clear how much he cares about teaching his students how to think clearly and rigorously. I loved the assignment structure, which is formatted to maximize our ability to learn from our mistakes -- each assignment was to teach us, not to burden or to punish us. I only wish it had given me more of a background in the history of philosophy.
This is the perfect course for anyone who thinks they may be interested in Philosophy. It exposes students to all the major areas of study in Philosophy and a wide variety of opinions and voices in the readings. Nickel is a brilliant lecturer, and Richard provided a perfect balance in teaching style during section.Don't pass on this course out of fear that it won't be in depth enough.
It is an interesting class if you put the time into reading all the lecture notes and readings thoroughly. Really understanding all the points takes reading, re-reading, and thinking and re-thinking. In the end they aren't that hard to make sense of but takes a while to make sense of them.
Philosophy 3 is a great introduction to philosophical thinking.  The topics covered are relevant (to philosophy) and are great exercises in abstract thinking.  However, it won't knock your socks off and its lack of gen ed credit doesn't help.
Not much reading, essays graded hard but plenty of section participation and response papers to lift your grade.
This is a very painless class.  The readings are sometimes confusing, but it's not a lot of reading.  It was a very interesting class, and Professor Boyle is a good lecturer.  The tf's do a good job clarifying confusing points from the lecture.  Definitely take it if you want to concentrate in philosophy, or want a relatively easy class.
I thoroughly enjoyed the class, but that may just be because I love to get into any and all forms of philosophical debates.  The course is well structured and the professor and TFs are welcoming. The only thing I'll say apart from that is that the grade you receive in the course is largely based off how well you can present arguments... so If your not good at that this may not be for you.
When I saw this class as rated easy I was surprised since everyone who studies philosophy is constantly complaining about how hard it is.And well, I would soon discover that this class is only easy..and not even easy, this class is only semi easy if you are okay with receiving a B-
The class was very interesting and was not too work intensive. The lectures and sections were very interesting.
Anyone with a slight interest in philosophy would greatly benefit from this class. I took the class as an elective and simply wanted a course that would teach me to think deeply and provide me with a chance to critically assess the big questions of the world. This class did just that. Although learning how to write philosophical papers may seem like a daunting task, you will improve. Don't expect to take this course a grade-booster however. Only take it if you have a genuine interest in philosophy and enjoy contemplating the big questions of life. If this is your motive, then the class is perfect for you.
This is a great class and definitely don't miss out on lecture-Professor Boyle is such an engaging, interesting character and his funny asides and small jokes make class so worth it. His slightly self deprecating manner is both endearing and comical, making him such a great professor to listen to. He also genuinely seems to care about what his students have to say. Its great that he pays less attention to time than to the quality of the material he covers.Section is also a great place to share ideas, clarify concepts, and just wrap you head around all this philosophy.
Get ready to question everything that you already know
Don't have to do the reading because they give out handouts summarizing it. The concepts are really difficult, and the papers are hard.
the subject isn't as interesting as the syllabus makes it seem. The readings are dry and at times very difficult to understand. Take the class if you enjoy pondering and writing about abstract ideas.
Philosophy is a unique area of study that has lost intellectual respect in the modern world.  If one can appreciate the value that philosophy brings to an education, then this is a course that will be worth your while.  Having the ability to think about philosophical problems, create arguments and counterarguments, and recognize the significance of the arguments you have derived, are all valuable tools that do not come easily.  This course helps build a foundation in these specific areas, and does an overall good job of introducing philosophical problems.
Lectures were boring.
This is a very fun and interesting class to take. Writing in philosophy is a little different than other classes and takes some getting used to, but the structure of the class allows one to develop this new style very effectively.
This course is very well designed.  The readings are short, which is nice because it gives you an opportunity to get really familiar with the arguments themselves and, more generally, the philosophical mode of argumentation.  The fact that the first two papers were ungraded and that the third essay was graded before and after a revision really helped me improve my writing and the structure of my thought.  The lectures are fairly dry and section often devolved into spouting of opinion, but I learned a lot and my thinking improved a lot, too.
It is a very good course for first-time philosophy students. It is structured to allow you to give philosophy a try, without having to worry about killing your GPA in the process. I would strongly recommend this class to anyone who has the smallest interest in philosophy.
It's a good way to see if philosophy is something you want to pursue.
Take it only if you plan on concentrating in philosophy.
This class tells takes you on a tour of the problems that philosophy tries to tackles and responses through the ages.
This is a great class if you are uninterested in studying philosophy further.   If you are, however, I would highly recommend Phil 7 in the spring with Phil 8 in the fall.  These courses will give you greater depth into the historical scope of philosophy.  That being said, I think this course does well so long as you are willing to put hours into it - studying philosophy outside of the classroom, and taking time to seriously consider the questions raised.  This is not an academically rigorous elective, but it will only give what you put in - which for most students seemed far too little.
This is a great intro course! Readings are overall quite good, and the concepts of the course are fascinating. Lecture sometimes moves a little slowly, but I would still definitely recommend this course.
Easy, great class to survey philosophical thought, but don't expect anything mindblowing. Lectures and handouts deviate little, if at all -- you could just not go to class and read the handouts online, but if that appeals to you I don't know why you'd take it at all.
The papers are difficult, but you'll become a better writer by the end of the course. This is not a historical course, so readings are from any and all eras, which is nice.
This is a great class.  Take it even if you don't think you are interested in philosophy.  Rather than teaching you what to think, it teaches you how to think.  Also, if you are trying to decide between taking class, and taking Justice with Sandel, take this.  Its a broader, more in depth, more intimate, and altogether more satisfying look at the subject matter.
It's interesting!
Phil 3 with Nickel has many hallmarks of a good intro course: it has fantastic course materials and aids, well-spaced assignments, relatively interesting discussion, and is organized and light on reading. However, don't expect an easy A. Participation, as conveyed at the beginning of the course, is incredibly important - and I think with the light load many students lost sight of that.
Make sure to do all the readings. It's also extremely helpful to speak to your TF during office hours (I wish I had done that more often!) and definitely visit the philosophy tutor. If this is new to you, the more people you talk to, the better your experience will be.
Expect a lot of questions aroused by the materials, but don't expect any answer.
A wonderful class. My favorite of this semester. You really get to explore some of the big questions in life. You will not regret taking this course.
A fundamental understanding of philosophy is integral to any true intellectual. This course provides that and more.
This class is a decent introduction, but it often feels like we moved onto a new topic just as we encountered an interesting problem, and that Professor Nickel didn't really care about resolving things.
I found this course rather dry.  While we read a variety of texts, we get little information about the authors of the texts and the contexts in which these ideas arose.  The fact that we cover so much ground means that we don't spend very much time addressing each concept, making depth of thought in the class difficult to come by.  Lectures seem long and even unnecessary at times, since the main points are always summarized on the handout.  If you're really interested in Philosophy go for it, but if not I would advise exploring other subjects rather than taking this class.
it is worth the time even if it does not satisfy your gen ed requirements.
Pay attention in lecture, it will pay off for the final.  Go to office hours and discuss your papers with Nickel or your TF, you will do better.  Great course overall.
It is a very good course, with a very animated and kind professor.
Philosophy is not everyone's cup of tea, and this course may help you figure out whether or not it's for you. The readings are great and Professor Nickel's handouts are helpful, but lectures can be a little boring. Make the most out of section by speaking up. Otherwise philosophy's no fun!
The course is great if you are interested in philosophy and like discussing the material with classmates.
Helps with writing skills. Material is too broad. If this is your first phil class consider taking a more focused one so you dont get discouraged.
The class has interesting readings, essays, and engaging discussions. The lectures aren't all too helpful and the Prof doesn't do much helpful critical analysis in lecture. However, his notes are really helpful for guiding you in learning to read philosophy essays/texts. The essay assignments are really helpful in learning to write a paper, certainly much more helpful than Expos ever was.
If you're interested in Philosophy at all, you should take this course -- it's an excellent introduction to the subject.  The amount of reading isn't overwhelming at all, lectures are easy to follow, and section discussions are always interesting and exciting.
This class is low-commitment. HOWEVER, you will get what you put in. If you put a lot in, you will get a lot out, and it will be very rewarding. It makes you think, question, and explore various philosophical concepts and puzzles. It's a great introduction to philosophy.
nickel simplifies complex philosophical concepts in fun lectures. painless course.
Nickel is a great professor and the class is a good way to wade into the shallow end of philosophy.
Take this class! The lectures are almost always interesting, the reading is light (as is the workload) in terms of quantity, and above all, the class does this without sacrificing the quality of a solid intro course. Choose this if you want a very low-stress look into general philosophy, where the professor guides you along the way with great handouts, and the rest of the thinking is left up to you.
Take it! It's better than ancient greek philosophy in any case.
The sections did not interest me because it seemed like they lacked structure. The material may take time to sink in. At least for me, I didn't understand the course until reading period came along.
If the course does not apply to one's concentration, I would recommend it as an elective course.  The material is very interesting and thought provoking.
The class is a great way to become acquainted with philosophical ideas and significant thinkers. Professor Nickel is a great lecturer and the notes he hands out in class are extremely helpful in cementing the main points of the material in your head.
If you're a shy/quiet/tend not to participate, do not take this class unless Nickel revises the syllabus to decrease the participation grade percentage.  I liked this class otherwise, but it's difficult to do well.  Also, though there aren't that many essays, it is difficult to do do well on them (one T.F. said she only gives As to papers that "teach her something").
It is an interesting course which is not too demanding, that said, be prepared to hurl yourself into the discussions.
It is an interesting course but some of the readings are really difficult to understand
Skip the intro philosophy classes.
Take this if you want to think and write about all kinds of fascinating issues and/or get a taste of lots of different kinds of philosophy in one course. Or if you like thinking at all, period.
This class is a good introduction to philosophy for those who think they may to be concentrators, rather than those who think they're only interested in political philosophy (who should take Justice).
The course is interesting and worth taking.
It's not a class that requires a whole lot of busy work. It requires a lot of in-depth thinking. BS doesn't really cut it here. It's a whole different type of dynamic. I'm glad I took this class.
Take this if you're considering majoring in philosophy or you'd like to have an understanding of what philosophy is.
Be prepared that the course is not intended to give you philosophical answers to philosophical questions. Instead it offers different opinions from different people and you have to find out which saying is more convincing to you. There seldom is a consensus between different school of thoughts to a question.
If big questions like the matter of free will can sometimes bother you a lot this is a class to take.
Whoever is thinking about philosophy, I would suggest this class as a starting point.
I really enjoyed this course but it may not be for everyone. It provides a set of tools with which to approach philosophy reading and writing and an overview of the fields and problems in philosophy but it does not provide an in depth history of philosophy. There isn't very much reading, but it really makes a difference if you read the papers carefully. The first two papers don't count for your final grade so they tend to grade harder on them. Don't be discouraged by bad grades on those papers,; it's not hard to do enjoy and do well in this course.
very manageable and interesting class!
amazing.
You must like to discuss philosophical ideas. Section is just one big discussion about the week's readings, so participation should be one of your strengths. The topics covered are interesting, but there are a lot of them so you probably won't find answers to the questions asked.
A very enjoyable course that required little work. If you're interested in Philosophy, or think you might be interested in Philosphy, then definitely take it.
Probably one of the better intro phil classes; just be aware that section is a huge part of your grade.
Great class, very stress-free
TAKE THIS CLASS. I can think of almost no ways in which this course could be improved. The workload is fair, the readings are interesting, the professor is hilarious and easy to understand in lecture, and my section leader Cline is lovely and unusually fair and honest. It is an excellent introduction to philosophy and was an important factor in my decision to concentrate in Philosophy.
It's a good overview to common issues in philosophy, and focuses on teaching you to write. However, there isn't as much focus on critical thinking as I expected going into a philosophy class, and some of the topics may seem less relevant than, for example, those in Justice.
The lectures are unnecessary, the readings are good, definitely go to section.
It's a good survey of the major issues addressed by philosophy. Engaging lectures and section discussions
Take it.
Nickel is great. Take it! Just keep in mind that philosophy writing is a little different than what most people are used to.
Don't expect to get answers from this class.
There's some reading every lecture, but it's certainly not as much as, say, Gov 20. Nonetheless, they're philosophical texts, so the ideas will take you some time to get to grips with.
Have fun with it. It will really challenge your mind. Sections are wonderful, so come prepared. The discussions will be so much better that way.
Be sure to take it with a friend. It is very helpful to have someone to talk to about the material outside of section and lecture. It really helped me to understand, test, and apply the principles of the class--sometimes in everyday life.
Don't do all the reading, but definitely read the first and last paragraph. You can learn a lot from section discussion as well.
This is a painless and enjoyable course for anyone who enjoys discussing and thinking about philosophical topics.
Definitely take it
This is a really fun class that challenges your perception of the world and your way of thinking.
It's a great course. Take it if you're at all interested in philosophy.
Take notes on the handout - it provides a very good structure of lecture.
I would have preferred to take a more concentrated philosophy class rather than such a broad one.
The lectures may be boring, but the sections really dive into philosophical discussion.
have an open mind if you plan on taking this
Provides a good, broad overview of a number of still-unanswered questions from different areas of of philosophy. If you are thinking about studying philosophy, start here.
This is just a great class. Take it to get a broad overview of philosophy.
This course makes you smarter. It is really important if you want to learn how to structure logical and compelling arguments. Highly recommend it, particularly if you have no experience with that kind of stuff.
This class was far more difficult than I had originally expected, mainly because of the method of thinking and analysis that had to be mastered in order to fully understand the subject matter.
Take it and enjoy it. It is an easy class that gives you good materials and does not demand a huge amount of work.
It will change the way you see the world.
Office hours really help understand the material better so trying to go as often as possible would be ideal.
good for sleep
great handouts/interesting lectures
final is a lot of work but worth it
This course provides an excellent introduction to philosophy through a close reading and discussion of (short) classic philosophical works.
it was a great introduction to philosophy.
Great intro class to philosophy. Prof. Nickel is a hoot, and lecture and sections were highly enjoyable.
If you are genuinely interested in philosophy but unsure which part of philosophy interests you most, this course could be good for you.
This course gives you a strong foundation for different types of philosophy, and helped me figure out which branches i liked and disliked. That said, I think the section could be improved by more rigorous discussion.
If you want to be challenged to think about the world from new perspectives and debate what it even means "to think about the world" this class is for you!
This was my favorite course I have yet to take at Harvard! It was a great survey class on Philosophy. You don't need any background knowledge to take this course, and because this course covers many topics in philosophy, it is a good introductory course to take to see if you want to pursue philosophy further. Also, Bernhard gives such great lectures. He gives you handouts each lecture and posts the powerpoints online so that when it comes time to study for the weekly quizzes, you have many materials at your disposal. The reading is also very doable each week, and because Bernhard gives such comprehensive lectures, it's okay to fall behind in the reading (even with weekly quizzes).
Do not take this course if you are not wiling to delve quite deeply into philosophical issues and spend some time scratching your head trying to figure out exactly what these men (and 1 woman) were saying. Take this class only out of interest an curiosity, not for an easy A.
Read the material and you'll be fine.
Bernhard Nickel is my hero.
This course is a great overview if you may be interested in philosophy or just want to know what it's about.  It discusses major philosophical ideas as well as logic and philosophical writing.  It is important to come into the class with an open mind and the motivation to think about things until you figure them out.  You need not know about specific philosophers.
This class was excellent, I wish I could have taken advantage of the class more. Always do all the readings. It can be hard, as there are a lot of them, but you get so much more out of the class.
This class will help you to think, reason, and understand people's ideas in ways you have never done before. The issues and problems that you will consider will make you think harder about why it is we live our lives the way we do. Through the readings and Professor Nickel's lectures, which are intriguing, engaging, and enjoyable, you'll really come to know how little and how much we know. I thoroughly enjoyed this course, and I highly encourage anyone to take it. The perspective that this course provides is invaluable.
It gets you thinking about life in a different way.
Meh.
A very good course to explore the main areas of philosophy. It provides a general yet useful introduction to the major problems of philosophy while equipping the student with a "philosophical toolkit" to pursue philosophy later with greater success and fluency.
Philosophy 3 is a very rewarding course whether you are interested in philosophy or not for the following reasons: 
(1) Professor Bernhard Nickel is an awesome guy, and an awesome teacher. You will definitely enjoy his quasi stand-up lectures, though you might find that he has a bizarre sense of humor due to his German background at times.
(2) You will read awesome texts. From Plato to Descartes to Kant you will read a lot of the philosophical classics and contemporary thinkers. The texts are thought-provoking and you will start to view your life, your believes, and your habits differently as you get used to the practice of rational scrutiny.
(3) You will learn to argue rigorously and to write concise and effective prose. Prof. Nickel is a master of language so make us of his knowledge.
Prof. Nickel is a fantastic lecturer and person in general, and the TFs are great. You'll learn a lot and definitely get a real appreciation for philosophical problems. The staff is very open and accessible and are willing to humor all sorts of questions. Readings seem mandatory but because the lectures do so well covering them, they're almost optional.
This is an awesome course. Professor Nickel is one of those archetypal teachers who might just change your life (think Dead Poets Society, etc.) Be aware that this course is a broad survey course, which limits how deep the analysis of arguments and texts can go. Additionally, many of the texts and thinkers covered will be pretty familiar to those with previous experience in philosophy. However, this course excels in showing you how it all fits together, and is worth taking even if you've already taken an intro philosophy course elsewhere.
