This was an excellent experimental comparative philosophy course. Alison and Parimal are both exceptional instructors, and their combined expertise is nothing short of awe-inspiring. The depth of discussion on both Hume and the Buddhist philosophers was due, in large part, to Alison's and Parimal's incredible style of leading discussion. I wouldn't miss this course if it is taught again. This course embodies all of the best parts of Harvard -- experimental inquiry, incredible instruction, and depth of discussion.
Parimal and Alison are great, and for them alone I recommend the course. It was a confusing course, but it was an experiment. The Indian philosophers are very difficult without a cultural context, and Hume makes way less sense than Phil 8 might have led you to believe.
Profs Simmons and Patil are both amazing teachers, and very entertaining and approachable too. (I still can't believe Parimal translated these texts out of Sanskrit just for our class. What a boss.) The small, seminar-style class gave us a great chance to get to know both professors. Reading Hume and the Buddhist philosophers side by side was a challenging but rewarding experience. It did feel frustrating being unable to exegete the Buddhist texts confidently. But that, I suppose, was the intention of the class: to immerse us in an alien philosophical tradition and find out what happened. I, for one, very much enjoyed the experiment. I appreciated the way in which Hume and Buddhists came to interpret each other over our many conversations. Also, I really enjoyed getting to know my classmates through our weekly discussion groups.
I would take this course if you have a strong interest in Indian philosophy, but I wouldn't take it just on a whim.
Great way to look at some interesting texts from non-traditional places. Fantastic opportunity to engage with non-Western material in the philosophy department! You will be challenged to think a lot, and the material is incredibly engaging.
The course was wonderful, though the structure didn't totally work. You should work with Alison Simmons and Parimal Patil in any course they're teaching.
If this course ever gets offered again, TAKE IT!!! You will learn about two schools of thought (eastern and western) on some of the most interesting philosophical questions-- what is causation? Is there an external world? What is the self? You will find interesting similarities and differences, and overall, think about a question that likely even the philosophers you are reading did not get to think about themselves: how would a conversation between these two philosophical traditions (eastern and western) play out? Teachers, amazing. Seminar format, amazing.
the indian stuff could use some historical and philosophical context. you aint get nothing out of those snippets of god knows what. reading them is like listening to one end of a phone conversation "yes .. um ... is that right?... fire. smoke. fire. fuel. no i said fire. F.I.R.E. fire .... i gotta go now.. dont forget to feed the cows.. love you too. ciao"/    the indian guy could use some brains and guts. instead of dodging every question he gets coz he doesnt know the answer. and making you feel like you dont know what you are asking. or putting some other totally different question in your mouth coz that one he does know how to answer. with big long fancy words that stop you from asking more coz asking more just makes you sound dumb. and whats the point. you will just get more big long fancy words anyway
