This class was a space where students could share, not only their thoughts on Descartes and his critics, but also a space for the discussion about the inclusion of women in the history of philosophy. If you are passionate about that, take this course. It is one in which these problems of philosophy are discussed, alongside an enriching philosophical discussion surround the reception of Descartes to those women of his day.
This course is a great and more thorough overview of not only Descarte's iconic works, but also contemporaneous reception to his philosophy. You will have the chance to read some lesser known philosophers who provide interesting critiques.
Alison is great. The class is demanding week-to-week in terms of reading, but not in terms of graded assignments. The final paper is a serious commitment. This is a rare opportunity to read some very interesting writers (Conway & Cavendish) who are often overlooked in the history of philosophy.This is a fairly high-level philosophy class and this should not be your first philosophy class. This year -- the first time this course is offered -- the class was a little lacking in focus and direction, but I have faith that Alison will improve in that regard going forward. An significant interest in Descartes and early modern philosophy is a bonus, but not a requirement to enjoy the class.
This course offers you the opportunity to think intensively about Descartes at a granular level. More than that, it provides the chance to engage philosophers that are rarely taught, giving you a better grasp of philosophy at large. Lastly, while it will require a lot of work from you, it will provide you the skills to write a well reasoned research paper of which you can be proud.
Professor Simmons is incredible!!! Take a class with her if you haven't already (and take another one if you have)!!!! She cares more about her students than any professor I have had at Harvard. She is super accessible, gives feedback on basically all written work, is always willing to help students learn and grow, and is just generally awesome. Working with and learning from her has truly been one of the highlights of my college experience. As for this particular course -- I think the best part of this course was reading people outside the typical early modern canon. The female philosophers we read are amazing, and there are no other classes in the department in which they are taught (as far as I know). Professor Simmons also really encouraged us to discuss the value (or lack thereof) of a philosophical canon, which was extremely thought-provoking (and unusual in a philosophy class). As for the topic of dualism -- I started the course eager to read works by some early modern women, but not overly excited about dualism. But I found that focusing on a particular issue and seeing how different philosophers all tried to address this one issue was a fantastic way to approach the early modern period. I not only gained a much deeper understanding of dualism and early modern metaphysics, but also came away with a sense of how philosophy progresses through time as each new philosopher tries to tackle the same problem in new ways.
