If you are enthusiastic about epistemology, go for it.  Berker knows his stuff, and has an absurd about of energy during lectures.  If you aren't, however, run away.
The class is great, and you can get much more out of it if you involve yourself more--i.e. talk in lecture or with the professor himself.
I'd tell other people that both the material and the professor are awesome.
really great class to take if epistemology interests you at all
Amazing Professor.
Really fun class; no need to have taken any philosophy before as long as you take the readings and lectures seriously; actually has had great impact on my everyday conception of knowledge
This course is definitely interesting and intellectually stimulating, but I think a genuine interest in epistemological issues makes a huge difference in making the class feel more enriching and enjoyable. I would probably not recommend it for someone only somewhat interested in epistemology.
This class is a hardcore and thorough introduction to epistemology.
A great introductory philosophy course.  Professor Berker is phenomenal.
To believe, or not to believe - that is the question of epistemology.
What do you know? What do you know that you know? How do you know you're not in the Matrix (or the Truman Show)?  This class will provide you with the absolute definitive answers to all of these questions.
Might be difficult, but gives you an excellent foundation and knowledge of all contemporary positions in epistemology, as well has all their strengths and weaknesses.
prior viewing of The Matrix is highly recommended
I discovered that I don't particularly care for modern analytical treatments of Epistemology - but if you do, this is an excellent course.
Take this course only if you are very interested in epistemology - the gist you'll discover about a month in, and that's just how impossible it is to find any answers in this field.
I'm so glad I took this course. The information is relevant to me as background for my other philosophy classes (and my non-philosophy classes, too!). Professor Berker is great, as always, and the material was really interesting.
Epistemology is a very good course, but it gets its strength from the readings.  Don't take this class if you don't want to read because it will just be a waste. Professor Berker gives astounding lecture handouts, but if you don't read, then you won't form any interesting opinions on this fascinating subject matter.
Pretty technical class about a specific topic in philosophy. If you have a real interest in epistemology, I would certainly recommend it, but be warned that the topics covered do get quite technical.
Professor Berker was excellent. But if you're going to take this class, make sure you know how to write a philosophy paper, and make absolutely sure you like analytic philosophy.
Only take this class if you are ready to put the time in. It is very rewarding if you do.
Take it if responding to skepticism is genuinely compelling to you. Otherwise, the course will become dull quickly
This class challenges your notions of what you know and how you know what (if anything) you know. It changes your philosophical intuitions and challenges your epistemic framework.
Take this class if you're interested in contemporary Anglo-American philosophy. He's a great teacher, and it's good training for your mind. Don't take this class if you're not all that interested in contemporary Anglo-American philosophy. You'll find it tedious.
Difficult course but extremely interesting. Will change how you think about things.
It's a very rigorous overview of epistemology. Be prepared to learn a lot but also to be challenged tremendously.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Berker is an extraorinary lecturer and is definitely one of the smartest people at Harvard. Everyone remotely interested in philosophy should take this course without a doubt. You will get the best possible feel for what it is like to do philosophy. You learn ridiculous amounts in each lecture.
TAKE THIS CLASS-- it's one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Professotr Berker is absolutely brilliant and is very successful at encouraging participation and debate in class. The material is difficult but fascinating. You will learn a ton. DO IT!
It's a surprising topic, but interesting. Be prepared to work hard.
The class itself is great - really well taught, but be sure you're really interested in the subject matter.
This is the best lecture course I have taken at Harvard. Be prepared to work hard, though, if you have no philosophy backround - you should make sure you spend extra time on the first few assignments, if that's the case.
This course is excellent if you are interested in learning about: a) the possibility of knowledge of the external world; b) knowledge of the external world (what it is); c) concept of justification (how to explain whether or not any proposition that you believe is justifed), especially how the justification is structured and if it is internal or external to the person.
A very solid introduction to epistemology.
Overall, this class is pretty good, but I have some qualms about it. Lectures are painfully boring. Despite how interesting the topics we dealt with were, it became draining to constantly go through the same argument. By the end of the course, it just felt like we were rehashing everything we had previously discussed ad nauseum.
This is an interesting class for a concentrator. The instructor is very organized, which is nice. The section and discussions are dynamic. At times, the vague paper topics and seemingly unrelated class readings make for confusion.
Professor Chen is a great teacher.  Most of the readers were really interesting and foundational.  Towards the end of the course, the material got a bit more complicated, but Professor Chen provides handouts that outlines the major points of each article and this certainly helps with understanding these tougher articles in particular.
No need to do the readings, lecture will spend almost all of the time summarizing them anyway.
I couldn't imagine why someone outside of the Philosophy department would take this course. Plainly put, beyond the first weeks of Cartesian scepticism, the topics discussed are incredibly abstract, some of the readings even more so. Sadly, the lecture component wasn't always the most exciting, but Professor Chen is undoubtedly knowledgeable in the field. Grading is pretty standard of the department, grade-inflation so far out of reach you don't dare think about it.What you see is what you get.
This class is a great in-depth investigation of some problems in epistemology. The class is small which allows for a lot of interaction with professor Chen. Professor Chen is available outside of class and gives efficient lectures. However, although the course description says "introduction", in reality it is a rather advanced introduction. It presupposes a strong background in philosophical writing and it really helps having done some early modern philosophy, such as Hume and Kant, since they are foundational for the modern discourse in epistemology. The workload is good and the essays are not too demanding. In essence, a great class. The only warning I have is that the subject matter is rather narrow, so if you are only slightly interested in epistemology, then the course may become boring since the problems discussed are quite similar.
Really good course as an introduction to Epistemology - the readings are rigorous without being too hard for a new philosophy student to understand.
You should really be sure that you want to study epistemology before taking this class or it will be a long and confusing grind.
For me, the cons of this course outweighed its pros. Among philosophy classes, this course was perhaps more manageable than others - slightly less reading, effectively-spaced assignments, digestible material. However, lectures were flat and difficult to follow. Readings were, at least half of the time, dry, and sometimes tricky to parse. Assignments, too, felt forced - most essay prompts required you to tease out an author's argument while trying to compare this argument to epistemological problems as a whole. The request was challenging in that many authors used various epistemological terms in sometimes conflicting ways, and little background was offered for the authors that were addressed in class.
Great class.
The material is very interesting, though the lectures can be quite boring.
The class is good introduction to the ideas but will not prepare you for contemporary debates regarding the subject.
