This course is absolutely essential for students interested in contemporary work being done in philosophy.  An understanding and appreciation for Wittgenstein's thought changes the way one looks at philosophical problems; generally speaking it gives one a new perspective on the entire discipline.  More so than any other philosopher I have read, Wittgenstein has changed the way I see philosophy as a whole as opposed to just the problems and issues within it.
Be prepared to devote more time to this class than you expected, otherwise you will not do well at all.
As professor Goldfarb said the first lecture: if you wanna see if you should take this class or not, simply get a copy of the Philosophical Investigations from Lamont and skim through them. If you find them interesting, then take this class. If you don't, well... then there's something wrong with you.
An understanding of Wittgenstein is elusive, but once one has it, there is nothing that is more satisfying or rewarding.
take a class with goldfarb. he is pretty smug and makes fun of some pretty famous philosopher whom you might already respect, but it's (still) worth it.
Don't take this before you know what are the philosophical positions Wittgenstein is arguing against.
Some of the details of the course could be worked out a little better, but the lectures are good and the reading is really stimulating.
Sometimes it may be frustrating: it seems that the professor and the TF possess some secret knowledge of Wittgenstein's reasoning, which they, however, are unwilling to reveal to their students. It goes like this: -Is this what Wittgenstein means? - Not exactly. - So WHAT exactly does he mean? - Oh, close to what you take him to mean, but it's hard to explain what exactly.
Wittgenstein is difficult!
"Sometimes, in doing philosophy, one just wants to utter an inarticulate sound."  Ludwig WittgensteinThis class shows you that.
This might be a better class to audit than to take. The lectures are a lot of fun and the material is very important and interesting, but you don't get to benefit much from the additional attention you'd normally expect to get as a student taking the course (e.g. feedback on written work). Also, if you take this course, it might be good to familiarize yourself with alternative interpretations of Wittgenstein's later work.
A philosopher treats a question; like an illness.
You must be interested in *specifically this material* (i.e. Wittgenstein's thought) and not just the philosophical "neighborhood" in which it is situated (logic, language, mind) to get the most out of the course.
Wittgenstein is a genius.
I was more confused in this class than any other class I've taken, ever.  Though, the material is extraordinarily interesting once the bits and pieces come together.  However, I think one could get just as much from reading the texts and secondary literature alone without signing up for the actual class.
Extremely difficult: you're given a few long assignments that determine the bulk of your grade, without a lot of help when it comes to reading and understanding LW.
It was a great introduction to a fascinating topic.
Ever wondered how a so-called "common language" philosopher could be treated like a mystic?  Now you'll know.
The course is extremely esoteric but it satisfactorily delivers what it promises.
Don't let yourself be deceived by the lack of structure: this is a worthwhile course to take.
I honestly think that confronting Wittgenstein's ideas, especially as a concentrator in the humanities, is a life-changing experience. Reading the Philosophical Investigations is hugely important. And Professor Goldfarb really knows his shit.
Goldfarb offers his very compelling interpretation of Wittgenstein's Investigations. If you have any interest in that philosopher or that book, you won't regret taking this class. Be sure to read the secondary material and even seek more to get a broader understanding of how Wittgenstein is read, since most of the lectures are devoted to explicating Goldfarb's 'therapeutic' reading.
This course will not try to engage you. Lectures are very traditional and the discussion sections are not lively. But you will get out of it what you put into it. There is a lot to learn, and Prof Goldfarb is a wealth of knowledge on the subject. I learned a lot and I would recommend the course.
This course is vital for any philosophy concentrator and anyone else seriously interested in the subject.
This is a very interesting course for anyone interested in philosophy or language (or psychology, maybe). It doesn't necessarily leave you feeling like you learned anything in particular, but it's still very interesting.
I really enjoyed this course, and I think I got a lot out of it. That said, I am a senior philosophy concentrator and I found the material to be quite difficult. Although the course is listed as an undergraduate offering, I'm fairly certain the majority was graduate students. Don't be fooled by the seemingly low workload-- if you want to do well in this class and/or if you want to understand Wittgenstein's later philosophy you will need to be prepared to put the work in (including reading all of the secondary reading assignments and possibly reading the primary text multiple times). Even the shorter, three page assignments took me longer than similar assignments have taken me in other courses, because it is not easy to explain what Wittgenstein is up to in the Philosophical Investigations!That said, I put in the work for this class and I felt like I got a lot out of it. Goldfarb's lectures were excellent and engaging. He has been teaching this material for a long time, and he knows what he is doing. Although the class was more work than I expected, I don't regret taking it, because I came out of it feeling like I learned at lot.
Very interesting material, and Prof. Goldfarb clearly loves teaching the class.
This is a fascinating course about an important and unconventional approach to philosophy. Professor Goldfarb is fantastically knowledgeable, opinionated, and enthusiastic about the material. This course will change the way you think.
Take it, but have a few philosophy courses under your belt. Wittgenstein is a really cool thinker.
Wittgenstein is as challenging as philosophers get, but this course renders him accessible and empowers you to approach other philosophy more skeptically.
This class gives you a good sense of Wittgenstein's themes and philosophical method.
Reading Wittgenstein proves to be challenging and at times frustrating, although if one places enough effort into the reading materials and the lectures, studying Wittgenstein can be quite rewarding.
A good course, but do not expect to cover all of the Investigations.
If you have any interest in Wittgenstein's thought, this is a great class to explore that.
If you want to explore the ideas of one of the greatest philosophers take this course. The ideas are extremely difficult and hard to parse at times, but getting to know what Wittgenstein was thinking and how he conveyed it is well worth the effort.
