The course material and sections are very thought-provoking and relevant to your existence as an informed individual in society. I suggest taking notes on the readings (I first suggest to do all of the readings) and trying to remember who said what for the final.
Not sure it will be offered again because it was a visiting professor
Despite the frustration with the grading, this class was a great insight to the philosophical questions that the U.S. Constitution poses. I really enjoyed debating many of these tricky topics in section and would recommend this class to anyone interested in the moral ambiguousness of the law. However, this class does require a lot of work in order to get a good grade, so I would not recommend it as a GPA booster, so make sure you're very interested in the topics of the class.
Phil 11 is a great course, and it's unfortunate that Prof. Hosein won't be here again to teach it. This year at least, it offered an interesting method for looking at various legal/philosophical issues, such as campaign finance, affirmative action, and others. If you are interested in thinking about legal/political issues from a philosophical standpoint, take this course! It's also really interesting if you are interested in constitutional law, which forms the basis of most of the course.
This course was very basic, though it covered a lot of interesting topics. If you're looking for a standard pre-law course, it's probably a good go--if you're looking for something that's really "philosophy of law," you might be a little disappointed.
Very interesting material and great teaching staff; class generally feels laid-back, although essays can be challenging at first. Overall fun and enlightening experience.
It was a bit disorganized, and it was unclear what type of philosophy we were learning (or at times, if we were learning philosophy at all). I was hoping to take this class to get a better sense of philosophy and the philosophy department, and while I think I learned the basics for how to write a good philosophy paper and got to engage with interesting texts and teachers, I don't feel like I got a solid introduction to philosophy.
Material is usually interesting, assignments are held to incredibly high standards.
It's a ton of fun! :)
This class was really interesting. Grading is pretty tough, but the material was interesting (especially if you have any interest in law).
The papers were graded very brutally (I'm a history major and this was my first philosophy class). Do the reading throughout because doing it all the week before the final is impossible, and most (though not all) of the readings are of reasonable length.
This is an amazing class that taught me a new way to think about the world, and gave me the tools to defend my opinions logically that were previously just intuitive. Gave me a better understanding of the problems with different aspects of public policy today, especially surrounding oppression and discrimination. Best section I've had at Harvard, but lectures were meh; fantastic, short reading list.
