This class was extremely engaging, teaches you a lot about feminism (not just the political philosophy aspect of feminism, although that was an integral part of the course and was so interesting) and provides you with the chance to learn from Gina Schouten, who is SO incredible. It was a great class.
This class is a great intro to philosophy as a method as well as feminist political philosophy. It covers a diverse range of topics in feminism, and Gina is a great professor.
This is a fun class and Prof. Shouten is a really engaging lecturer. It's worth taking if you're interested in either political philosophy or academic feminism.
This is a great introduction to both liberal and feminist theories, as well as their concrete applications to society. In the end, you will probably be left with even more questions regarding these topics, but then again that's philosophy!
This class not only is a great introduction to feminist philosophy, but it also is a good tool for beginning to or continuing to engage with feminism more generally.  It will definitely get you to see your everyday interactions in a different light and get you to realize new things about the role of gender in the world around you.  Perhaps the most exciting part was the discussion where you can become exposed to the many opinions and experience of your peers surrounding these issues.
This course was very interesting, perfect if you would like to study feminism through a philosophical and theory-heavy lens. Readings were fairly average amount, not too much or too little. Memos and assignments were fairly demanding, but fair overall. My only reservation is how theory-centric this is, you should probably have to have some philosophy background otherwise the assignments and readings will be unmanageable, confusing, and difficult to understand.
Take this class! Really reasonable amount of work, and a lot of attention goes into good teaching practices.
This is an excellent way to begin (or end!) a philosophy concentration! Professor Schouten is an absolute gem; her lectures are appropriately-paced, interesting, and rigorous, and her sense of humor will keep you on your toes. You will learn how to write a philosophy paper in a relatively low-pressure setting, and to think philosophically about modern feminist issues. Not a huge time investment, with a lot of return value. I'd take it again!
This class is a fantastic introduction to both philosophy and feminism. If you're unfamiliar in either/both, I strongly recommend taking this class. I was completely unfamiliar with philosophical texts on feminism, but now I feel like I have a strong basis for understanding feminism, along with the mindset to critically analyze feminist philosophy. It is not easy: readings can be somewhat lengthy and tiring, and you won't always feel totally prepared to discuss the readings. But while Gina, Rachel, and Menon will hold you to a high standard, they will also push you and help you reach it.
Such a great class. Professor Schouten is earnest and intelligent and very responsive to feedback. I did all the readings for the class because it was interesting and not a heavy reading load at all.
This is such a great class with very interesting material, but there is definitely a learning curve if you've never done any philosophical work before.
This is a great way to dip your toe into both philosophy and feminist thought! It really changes the way you think about the world, and is the kind of class you will take with you for the rest of your life. There are a lot of little assignments to keep track of, but overall it is a pretty manageable class and you get so much out of it. Definitely take!
Take this class! Prof Schouten is an incredible professor and you will learn so much from this class.
Professor Schouten is one of the most enthusiastic and energetic professors I've learned from. She genuinely cares about starting discussion with her students and takes the time/effort to learn everyone's names. I found most of the topics we discussed throughout the course very interesting and applicable (unlike subject matters usually discussed in philosophy classes, let's be honest here). More men take this class! I really learned a lot from the male students in my section discussions, and I hope a more diverse range of students choose to take this course in the future to make conversations more fruitful.
I would say if you want to learn about feminism through a philosophical lens this is for you. If you already think about feminist issues 24/7, this may not be the best class for you because it becomes repetitive.
I highly recommend anyone on the fence to take the leap and enroll in the class. It will help you change the way you see the world and be an important introduction to a significant segment of philosophy.
This course is great for anyone, whether you have taken a philosophy class before or not. It has impacted the way I think about my own life and my place in various communities. Definitely worth taking!
Prof. Schouten is amazing. Take any class with her in which the material even remotely appeals to you. She's structured, organized, thoughtful, funny, and just a great person to talk to about philosophical stuff or anything else. Harvard has found a real gem here so be sure to get to know her before her name blows up and there's no space in her classes.
Honestly my favorite class that I took this semester. The professor is incredibly engaging, enthusiastic and genuinely gets to know each and every student in the class. The material is intriguing, regardless of if you like philosophy or not. The material is also very applicable to real life. Each lecture is fun, and I never felt bored in class. The assignments are all super manageable, and the reading is not excessive whatsoever. I would recommend this course to any student. 10/10.
Gina is great lecturer. Definitely be interested in the class material. For me, I enjoyed this class more and more as class went on and it really changed my perspective and viewpoint. A transformative experience.
This class has been one of my favorites so far. I learned a lot about political theory, but I also learned a lot about how all of this applies to my life. As a guy, it was especially eye opening to hear others talk about things I've never had to experience, and I would highly recommend the class to people of all genders.
Take this class! I could not stop talking about it with my friends and blockmates. The readings are really well selected (and of reasonable length), the assignments are generally pretty low-key, and Gina Schouten is fantastic. Regardless of what gender you identify with, take this class. It really changes the way you think about these issues and transforms opinions into critical arguments.
Would recommend if you shop and are gravitated towards Prof. Schouten/ her style/ the assignments. I think it was a fabulous course, but I think you have to be willing to engage with Prof Schouten's lecture style (which involves discussion and some theatrics). Don't take it if you just want to sit and listen passively. Go to her OH if you do take the class; she helps on assignments and is just interesting to talk to! Texts were really manageable, super interesting and I constantly found myself talking to people not in the class about them. Also a great class if you want to work on your writing style/ get exposed to a new discipline. If you are not a women or don't think you are WGS enough for this class, you are wrong. It was a rigorous phil class that was open to anyone. The teaching staff even went out of their way to make sure that everyone regardless of gender would be on equal footing.
this class has been so informative for me that i would make it a required course for all college students to learn about sex equality.
This class is a really good way to introduce yourself to the philosophy department. Definitely be interested in feminism if you're taking this. And be prepared to keep up on readings every week, because you're asked to post weekly graded memos.
This class gives you a great background into a very specific version of feminist philosophy. If you are interested in specifically 80s and more often than not concerns about heterosexual marriage justice then this class will be great for you. However, if you want a more broad understanding of feminist philosophy I would look elsewhere.
Although I was nervous and hesitant to take this class because I was not really interested in philosophy, my fears subsided over the course of this semester. Although the philosophy was certainly there, it was taught in a manageable and understandable manner. Additionally, I found that, although I may not be interested in classical philosophy, I do find feminist political philosophy to be incredibly interesting.
