This is an amazing course and a great overview to metaethics. For those who are interested in understanding what REAL philosophy is all about, this course is a great way to expose you to the rigor of philosophy without presupposing any prior knowledge (though the content is difficult).
This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Selim Berker is an amazing professor, and Noel was an awesome TF. Prof Berker makes class discussion exciting, sparkling, warm and charitable in tone and at the same time incisively rigorous. I learned a lot about how to be a better philosopher from this class. The readings were not light, but manageable, and well worth it.
This is a challenging class, and perhaps not the right fit it you're trying to just get ER out of the way, but worth every bit of effort if you're interested in almost any branch of philosophy. Metaethics is challenging because it is, essentially, the metaphysics, epistemology, and, at times, Phil of science of ethics.
Just take everything that Selim offers! But if you can only take one course of his, take this one.
This class is very interesting, but definitely not easy. The readings are often difficult to understand, though not impenetrable. Prof. Berker does a great job explaining the readings.
This class demands a lot from you, so be prepared to work hard. With that said, this class will make you a more careful thinker and writer if you devote the right amount of time to it.
If you really like philosophy, this class is great.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. It's hard, but just the right amount, and it's worth it. Take it!
Overall, an interesting, well-run, and difficult course. Metaethics I think is something that a lot of people have opinions about instinctively even if they haven't heard of metaethics (I hadn't really before the course). The course exposed me to many nuances and problems that I hadn't thought about before.
This class is difficult and extremely rewarding. It encompasses so many different aspects of philosophy (metaphysics, epistemology, moral philosophy) that no matter your interests, if you have some background in philosophy you will likely find it fascinating and intellectually stimulating. I wish there were more like it at Harvard.
This class was really fascinating. Selim is a great lecturer and Noel is a phenomenal section leader. The topic we grappled with in class are quite difficult, and there was a tendency to get side-tracked by minute disputes in class. Section as really engaging and wonderful. The assignments were reasonable, but feedback (due to special circumstances) was hard to get. Since this was my first philosophy class, I found it really difficult to know how well I was doing the in the class. Overall, I recommend this class--it was good!
This class is very difficult, but rewarding if you put the time into it. It will make you think about moral judgments in a new way, and perhaps induce some skepticism in you!
This is a wonderful course if you are interested in seriously engaging with and analyzing the ethical domain.  Professor Berker is a top-notch lecturer, and will address your particular questions about the material to make sure you understand and are able to participate in the conversation.  Be aware that this is by no means an easy Gen Ed:  it is rigorous 100-level philosophy, so should really only be taken if you're willing to put in the time to read and reflect on the material.
This class is dope. Take it if you're at all interested in moral issues.
This is the best philosophy class I've taken at Harvard. I see two huge benefits of philosophy: first, it helps you engage in many aspects of life in a meaningful, self-reflective way; second, it trains you how to think and expands your critical and creative capacities. This course did both, and did the latter to a crazy degree. I feel much more confident in my analytic and deductive capacities having taken this course, and much more confused (in a good way) about metaethics.
Selim Berker is an amazing professor- passionate, engaging, brilliant, gives great lectures and integrates class discussion really well. Metaethics is really, in many ways, THE subject to study in Philosophy, at least at some point. It is so important to understand what we are doing when we set out trying to set standards for the morally right way to live. This class looks critically at that question.
If you're at all interested in questions concerning right and wrong, then you should at least shop this course.
This course is a truly excellent course for someone who has taken multiple philosophy classes already. For someone who has not yet but who has a real passion for philosophy and is invested in the content and is willing to work hard, this class is a worthwhile challenge. For someone who is not passionate about philosophy and is primarily interested in fulfilling the ER requirement, I would recommend taking something else.
Metaethics is a really phenomenal class that makes you think critically about your beliefs and why you believe them. Personally I hadn't thought about a lot of metaethical questions (ie what gives moral statements their force), and taking this class forced me to question why I believed them, and why I should still follow them if they don't have that same force.

But more importantly, Prof Berker is an amazing lecturer, and the number one reason you should take the class is because he's teaching it! I've never seen such a clear and organized lectures, which makes learning about the subject really fun and easy.
This course is overall pretty great. Selim is a great lecturer and will answer all sorts of questions in class. The topics are very interesting, but it is easy to fall behind on the readings and become confused when the paper assignments are handed out.
This class is fantastic. Metaethics is the most relevant part of philosophy, and this class will address rigorously those armchair musings about right and wrong. However, the professor's description of the class as being one of the most rigorous 100-level phil classes is probably accurate. You will need to really engage with the material -- but doing so will prove very rewarding.
If you are interested in learning more about ethics and learning how to argue well, then take this class. Beware though, this isn't ER18; it's a real philosophy class that requires a lot of thought and discussion with peers.
It's a great course, but it's very, very difficult. Do not go into it unless you are really passionate about the material.
