It's an interesting class with an interesting format. The speakers are of course different each year, so that will presumably make a difference to one's experience in it.
I think this is really a great class--a lot of interesting readings and lots of chances to have in-depth discussions about philosophy. I am not sure it would be the right class for you if you are interested solely in the legal aspect--this definitely leans more to the "philosophy side."
I would tell future students that this course is very enriching and engaging. It forces one to think deeply and critically about very interesting moral questions. However, it is not particularly enjoyable. So if you're looking for an outstanding academic experience and don't particularly care if you enjoy yourself in the process, this class is perfect.
It's not a philosophy of law course--rather, it's philosophy AND law. Take it if that's something you're interested in.
This is a great course, because you get to discuss contemporary normative issues with two of the greatest and sharpest minds on Harvard's faculty. But as fantastic as Professor Fallon and Professor Kamm are, this is a colloquium course, and they don't lead half the sessions, nor do they choose the material. Basically, taking this course is taking the risk that all of the working papers and topics given by the guest lecturers are actually interesting ones. Unfortunately the quality varies enormously by week. Sometimes you might which that Professors Kamm and Fallon would just present their own work and lead discussions themselves instead of hearing a guest speaker whose work isn't the best.
This class originally appealed to me because of its interdisciplinary nature. However, class readings and discussion tended to focus on philosophy or law, not the intersection of the two disciplines. Nevertheless, it was a good opportunity to read the newest works in both disciplines and I enjoyed the opportunity to question many of the scholars I read.
The assignments required by this class are not incredibly demanding, but nonetheless you need a good chunk of time in your schedule to benefit from what this class has to offer. To really understand the concepts and the readings, and to connect them all together, I found it necessary to sometimes sit down with a stack of blank paper and draw out diagrams of arguments and diagrams of how different arguments connected to each other. Due to the colloquium style of the class, you move through a lot of topics very fast. You should develop a strategy early on to keep them all straight.
