Class isn't as easy it might seem. Grading is pretty harsh. But content is really interesting if you put in the time and effort and will challenge how you live your life.
Take this course!! Professor Kelly is one of the best teachers I have ever had. He is enthusiastic about existentialism and genuinely interested in his students. The readings in this course are wide-ranging and thought-provoking, but not overwhelming. Altogether, the course does not require too much work, and the material and assignments that it does provide are enjoyable and interesting anyways. Existentialism, especially writers such as Dostoevsky, Nietzsche, and Sartre, is something one ought to study at one point in life.
Please take this class! Sean Kelly is a joy to have as a professor! He's incredibly approachable, thoughtful, and open to new ideas, and, at its best, the class is more like a discussion between interested people who have new ideas to exchange.
It is amazing to hear a philosophy professor say that the greatest Dostoevsky commentators of all time got him wrongand even more amazing to realize your professor is right.But really, whether your a freshman or senior, it's a great class and probably the closest to one of those "transformative philosophy classes" that some take in college. Really beautiful material by an excellent professor who is childlike in his curiosity and always has a smile ready to form.There have been three lectures during my time at Harvard during which I've begun to cry (from what we were learning), and two of them were in this course.
Incredible material. Professor Kelly is very insightful.
This class was great, though not quite what I expected. The good: Professor Kelly is an excellent lecturer and genuinely interested in teaching (and learning from) undergrads. Sandy was a phenomenal TF. The syllabus is really, really cool and fun. The slight negatives: I expected this class to be part philosophy and part literature. Despite the fact that we spent several weeks on the Brothers Karamazov, it was approached entirely from a philosophical angle. He was treated as a philosopher, and the novel and its characters treated merely as stand-ins for philosophical ideas. I was pretty disappointed by this, since I think there would have been a lot of interesting discussions to be had about the way literature expresses ideas differently, and why Dostoyevsky might have written a novel instead of a straightforwardly philosophical text. So this is not (as I had somewhat anticipated) kind of a phil and lit class - it is straight up phil. The philosophy, again, is great and so is the class, but be forewarned.
Professor Kelly makes this class. He has a wonderful way of teaching where his love for the subject matter really rubs off on his students. The workload is fair and reasonable and the readings are interesting. Looking back I really enjoyed the class.
If you can take this course, do it. It's such a good course. the reading is fantastic and lecture is wonderful. I loved doing the readings, which fluctuated between a lot and a little per week, but you get a lot out of doing them.
Take it! You will read things you've always been curious about, and Professor Kelly's lectures are unique and enlightening.
Take this class to read Dostoyevsky, and everyone should read Dostoyevsky.
I would definitely recommend this class to anyone interested in philosophy or existentialism. If you want to read Nietzsche, Dostoevsky, and others through a unique existentialist lens, definitely take this course.
Really interesting material that asks you to take a stand on how you view life. I was surprised on what I thought at the end, definitely worth taking in order to challenge your commonly held assumptions.
I have mixed feelings about this course. As a non-humanities major, I took it because I wanted to try out philosophy. I felt like I was at a significant disadvantage and struggled with all of the papers. I don't feel like I got the necessary feedback to improve my writings, and I (think) I'm getting the lowest grade in this class that I've gotten in any class at Harvard.Outside of my GPA, however, the material of this class was fairly interesting. If you're interested in existentialism, such as Kierkegaard and Dostoevsky, this course is great.
This course teaches some very interesting and thought-provoking texts, and some great movies. Professor Kelly is a good lecturer, with smart insights and a genuine care for students and his subject. This is also the type of course that causes a self-reflection and helps change, at least for me, not only how I think in a classroom but how I act in everyday life. His syllabus may scare you with a seemingly large workload, but besides Dostoevsky the reading was only an hour or two each week. I'd tell any friend to take it.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Professor Kelly and Lauren are an awesome team! The readings are fantastic! You get to read Dostoevsky's The Brothers Karamazov which is life changing and other great novels like Kierkegaard's Fear and Trembling, Samuel Beckett's play Endgame, etc. TAKE IT! This class is so doable. The essays are interesting and pain free, the readings are amazing, and the lecturer/professor is intelligent and a good speaker.
Kelly is a magical professor and Lauren is a fantastic TF. A great introduction to philosophy with a very humble and captivating teaching staff!
The material was great, the structure could have definitely been better and the time spent on each writer and subject should be reavaluated
The course materials, and thus the course, focus heavily on religion. Thus, many of the discussions were based on religious questions and on how man deals with religious quandaries.
This was a wonderful introduction to philosophy. If you are new to philosophy, I would take it if you know you only want to take one philosophy class without getting huge foundation (if you prefer building a foundation, you should consider Phil 8). The readings and films were very interesting - the type you'll wish you had spent more time on. Favorite was Nietzsche's The Gay Science. Sean Kelly is a fantastic professor. Definitely go to his office hours because he is incredibly open-minded and fun to talk to. He is one of those professors for whom you don't have to prepare a question to go to his office hours and he will ask you about yourself. He gives very interesting analyses that are also very accessible. Lastly, this course will probably make you reflect on your own existence to some extent. For me, there were many moments when I was surprised at how applicable "defining commitments" and "choosing how and what to think" were important concepts for what was going on in my life.
This class is a great introduction to existentialism. You do get a taste of philosophy, but at the end of the day, you're reading great literature and watching some terrific films. The material is incredibly interesting - on both an intellectual and personal level. Great course overall!
This class is good, but far from a perfect class on Existentialism. The bulk of the course is on the Brothers K, and if you don't connect with that one text, the class will be much more difficult to engage with.
Prof. Kelly is great, he's enthusiastic and extremely open to meeting with students outside of class just to talk. Lectures are interesting if occassionally repetitive.  There's more of an emphasis on theistic existentialism than I would have liked, but it's worth it to spend so much time on The Brothers Karamazov. The work load is manageable in general, but TBK is obviously a lot of reading. Lauren is also great, she's a really thoughtful discussion leader and gives good essay feedback.
One of the most enjoyable classes I've taken. Professor Kelly may be my favorite lecturer at Harvard
Take this class if you would like to learn more about Existentialism, but if you are not a concentrator and are only taking one philosophy class to try out philosophy, I would likely recommend another.
If it stays as it was this year, it's a LOT of reading. Really, a lot. It's very rewarding, I'm sure, if you do it. Professor Kelly is great. But I couldn't (or at least didn't) keep up with all the readings. But if that doesn't bother you, then definitely take it. Great material, a really good lecturer, what more could you want?
