I think It's a great introduction to philosophy!
This class was wonderful. The material is fascinating. The professor was great and so was Patricia (the TF). They both are happy to discuss your paper or philosophy in general. No complaints. Anyone who takes this course should also see the Departmental Writing Fellow for any extra help. I saw him a few times throughout the semester and I found he gave helpful advice. If you have any interest in arguments for God's existence, arguments concerning the divine attributes (omnipotence, omniscience, etc.), or are searching for an introduction to the department I found this to be a solid course.
A great course.  Strong lectures and section.  The course addresses really interesting philosophical issues related to religion.  If you are interested in that, it is a must-take.
Good readings, lectures, discussions, and paper assignments.
It's an easy class, but don't take it for that reason. Take it if you want to experiment with religion or philosophy otherwise you will probably be incredibly bored.
This is an interesting class if you want a broad approach to theology or to "get your toes wet" in philosophy. It is not a huge time commitment but don't think you aren't learning. I have found it very useful in terms of being a well-rounded human.
Since I got into Harvard I knew I wanted to take this class. The topic is so interesting that makes you read more literature about it. The workload is not so much- I only spent about 30 min to one hour before each lecture to prepare the article that will be discussed. Writing papers is the main thing. One paper monthly. By the time you have to write your paper you more or less know where the topic and lecture goes to, so it is not very difficult to find a thesis for a given prompt. There is a lot of help if you have never written a paper. The writing center, the philosophy writing center, and the TF is always able and willingly to provide any feedback if you send her a draft, or even meeting with you at a certain time. If you feel it's too much, it's ok. They do grant extensions, and you can work with your TF on your paper. This was the best class I took my freshman fall, the class that made me wake up to go to lectures and sections every week. Even when it does not count towards the philosophy concentration, at least consider taking it if you want to have a smooth transition to more advanced writing courses. After this class I am definitely considering a concentration/secondary field in Philosophy. You don't need a study group for this class. If you read through the articles and arrive prepared for class, you'll be fine.
This class was fantastic! The teaching staff was awesome, the workload was low, and I really enjoyed learning the material. Take this class!
The readings can sometimes be  a bit difficult and some of them are loner than others, but i think the class is definitely worth taking. i was by far my favorite class and i'm now considering a phil secondary instead of an English secondary after taking it  (probably going to choose phil)
This is a great class to take if you want an introductory course on philosophy. The lectures are interesting and easy to keep up with, the papers will help you solidify your knowledge of the material and allow you to craft your own arguments, and the overall workload is light and very manageable. You also get so much out of this class as an intellectual- it will keep you thinking long after the lecture ends. This was one of my favorite classes and I highly recommend it to future students!
Its a fantastic class, with issues that are imperative to understanding humanity. If you like to discuss religious concepts, the nature of god, and other theological questions this is the place to do it.
I would whole-heartedly recommend this class. Prof. Chen and Ted are excellent teachers who foster dialogue about important philosophical topics. The reading is very interesting and not too burdensome; the excellent lecture notes help flesh out difficult sections. One comes out of the course having pondered important questions, with better analytical/logical skills, and a greater enthusiasm for philosophy.
Cheryl Chen is a great lecturer (and person) and you should definitely try to take one of her classes if you are at all interested in philosophy. (She is one of the few philosophy professors who is adequately organized!) The workload is pretty light (usually just a ~10 page reading for each class), and there is a lot of room for improvement on the papers (of which there are 4 in total, each ~6 pages long).
THIS CLASS IS AWESOME! Fascinating material, great lectures, readings were not too long, essays were on great topics (and graded generously), and final exam was totally manageable. If you have any interest at all in big questions about the existence of God, evil, free will, science and religion, etc. this class is for you. The material is definitely challenging, but Professor Chen elucidates everything brilliantly in lectures and the handouts. Ted is also such a helpful, approachable TF. The class is so small that you really get quality treatment in this class.
It gives an engaging and in-depth look into philosophy of religion that is understandable at all levels from philosophy majors to freshman.
Take this course for your ER requirement, your intro philosophy requirement, or just as an elective.  It is a great introduction to the methods of philosophy and on a very interesting topic with a great lecturer.
Great class! Interesting section, awesome topics and authors, and nice to see how one's opinion can change. Main improvement I'd honestly give is just letures - need to be more engaging or get a way for students to go - however, I think the professor recognizes it's not crucial and in that sense gives students the non-mandatory option of going to lecture if they need it.
If you're interested in the God argument, arguments for and against his existence, and more generally just a expansive amount of topics relating to him, then I would recommend this course (believer or non-believer). Given that this is your first philosophy course, it also helps sharpen your abilities to think through arguments and write with more clarity. The lectures are dry, but the workload is very minimal. There are 4 essays and a final, but there are no other assignments and nothing required for section except to show up and be ready to discuss.
This class discusses interesting material and encourages critical thought. It improves writing skills, thinking skills, and overall knowledge. If you like philosophy, this is a fascinating course with great opportunities for critical thought and discussion. If you haven't studies philosophy before, this is a helpful and enjoyable way to try it out.
It's a very good course to take if you are considering Philosophy as a Secondary (or as a Concentration) because it gives you a good taste of the subject.
This is a great course where you are challenged to think critically about religion.
Do all the readings. The class is much more enjoyable if you do.
It's a good gateway class into the philosophy department.  The workload and readings are reasonable, and the final exam was not very demanding.  Section discussions were well-conducted and interesting.  The topics are extremely interesting.
This is a great class, and one that will certainly make you think. If you have any inclination to study philosophy while you are at Harvard, this is a great place to start.
This class is a great exercise in deductive logic and philosophical thought applied to a topic (God) that is controversial and morally important. The section is extremely helpful and the work is very manageable. The lectures are lectures but I think Cheryl Chen is an engaging and sincere professor.
The readings are generally quite manageable and offer a nice mix of perspectives.  The handouts that Professor Chen provides each class are very useful summaries of the readings too.  Section overall was run very well, and Shantia is an excellent TF who explains issues well and is very helpful.  My biggest complaint about the class was the dull lecture format.  Professor Chen mostly just went straight through the handout of the day, often simply paraphrasing or repeating verbatim what was written on the handout.  I didn't really feel involved or moved to think particularly deeply.  Also, lecture didn't really consider broader ideas and implications beyond just what was in the readings.  I would have much preferred the engaging style that apparently is done in Phil 3.
This is a good intro philosophy course.  It engages with arguments that are more often than not logic based which can be frustrating if you're not use to that type of argumentation.  Overall, for an atheist like myself, this class was very interesting, and I learned that believing in a God is not as crazy as the four horsemen would have you think.  Take this course with an open and logical mind.
This class is a great introduction to the problems of religious philosophy, but it also covers topics that everyone thinks about (immortality, the existence of God, how the universe got here). The readings are easy to do and never more than a few pages, the lectures are interesting, provided you participate, and the sections force you to think about the issues in greater depth.
This is an excellent course. Super interesting, fun and informative. Prof Chen is awesome too. A must take if you have an interest to deeply (and rationally) think about questions concerning god.
This class is definitely manageable, not to mention interesting. The readings are rather short (although a few are a bit dense) and the sections were usually based on dissecting the arguments we'd learned about in class, then offering our own opinions towards them. It's the kind of class with topics that are both thought-provoking and universal, so I could continue conversations with peers (some not even in the class!) outside of the classroom. Definitely a fun class!
Excellent class. Very interesting and exciting.
This was an excellent primer for all sorts of topics of religion in philosophy. Professor Chen clearly explains each point and is incredibly patient even if you haven't had an experience with phil before. Definitely a good beginner's option!
This class is really boring to sit through, but the material itself is not uninteresting.  The professor is a bit of a bore, though she can be cute sometimes.  Still, I rather think that the nature lends itself to be boring, and I do not think that anyone that is genuinely interested in the material should hesitate to take this class.
