This class will give you a great introduction to a wide variety of issues in Indian Buddhist Philosophy. The class covers many thinkers, but each reading is extremely focused and demands that you engage deeply with a specific idea (rather than covering a lot of information but staying on the surface of it). Professor Patil is AMAZING. He leads a fantastic discussion and encourages the class to ask so many different types of questions -- from very specific questions about the meanings of words to meta questions about how to study (and teach) Buddhist philosophy. This class was one of my favorite classes I have taken at Harvard!
To learn Buddhist philosophy/theology
This is a great chance to experience something besides what's usually offered in Emerson Hall (if you're a philosophy concentrator), and a great chance to understand a swath of thought that has had long-lasting impacts, even if you're not. Professor Patil is wonderful, and the readings are varied and interesting. It's definitely not easy--especially if you're used to reading a certain kind of philosophy--but it's worth the effort of immersing yourself in that headspace.
This is a course which will introduce you to Buddhist philosophy in the most concise and yet detailed manner possible. By the end of the course you will get a broad picture of the development of Buddhism in India and at the same time will be able to discourse about specific topics in depth.
If you have the opportunity to take a class (any class) with Parimal Patil, absolutely do it. He is an amazing teacher and a groundbreaking academic and all-around wonderful. This class could've been about knitting and I'd be glad to have taken it. It was much more interesting than knitting, however. It differed from other historical philosophy courses I've taken in its really explicit emphasis on strategy and methodology vis-a-vis the texts. It was extraordinarily rewarding to have a chance to transcend the "Western canon" and be exposed to responses to familiar questions (about self, mind, meaning, etc.) that felt simultaneously very different from approaches I'd seen before and strikingly not-that-different. It was a new class, so there were some kinks: the range of topics was a little too broad and meandering for my taste; some of the readings were exceptionally difficult; classtime sometimes got diverted such that we didn't finish the planned material. The kinks were all understandable given the need to jam all this material into a single class - when really Dharmakirti (for example) should get his own class just like Aristotle - but as things stand, we should all take the survey classes so that one day a curriculum able to do this material justice will be possible.
