Don't expect much hand holding, and don't expect much coherence either.  But I do believe that, if one is interested in philosophy of mind, this is a good course to see how interesting and exciting it can be.
This course is fascinating for anyone interested in philosophy of mind or psychology. The professor put together a syllabus that linked many related problems of intentionality in interesting ways.
The material is extremely interesting, and the professor and section leader were extremely enthusiastic.  I loved the course, and now I have a much better understanding of philosophy of mind.
This course's material is absolutely fascinating--something that every serious intellectual should engage with.
The readings and the course as a whole fade quickly into intellectual obscurity. If you have not taken an analytical philosophy course, this will be slightly more challenging for you. The readings can be boring, but aren't often long. It's just a question of whether or not you can tolerate sitting there for an hour or two understanding literally 0% of what the readings saying. I found the articles too dense and our discussions ultimately far too nuanced and too analytical to provide for an appealing course.
If you are interested in mind-stuff, this is the course for you.
This is a great class on some very interesting topics. Professor Chen is an expert in this field, her lectures well-structured and pretty interactive, and we had some great discussions in class throughout the semester. Chandler's section was exceptionally good, and he is demanding when it comes to your papers, but in a good way. Definitely go and talk to him about the arguments you have in mind for your papers before you submit them!
This class is really interesting!
The grading is actually quite harsh.
This is a great course. It does not require much background knowledge, although it is helpful to have taken an introductory philosophy course that teaches you how to write a philosophy paper. The subject matter is very interesting, and this course does not have a heavy workload. Sometimes the papers are graded with not a lot of feedback, but the TF is available to meet during office hours.
Nothing is more enriching than Philosophy of Mind as it wrestles with foundational issues in how we conceive of ourselves, the sciences, and the phenomena of human thought. Be prepared to think in a rigorous way and read challenging texts.
The questions examined in this course are deeply important. In an era of scientism, philosophy has great use in teasing out what questions about the nature of our conscious life only seem to be addressed by science. The systematic analysis of such questions in this course is deeply meaningful. It's worth taking this course just to learn it's content.
Decent class with a good topic and a great set of readings. Definitely spent a good deal of time discussing the material outside of class with friends just because it was so interesting and controversial. At the same time, a lot of the material felt really arbitrary and many arguments studied were borderline ridiculous. Also, lecture format and paper grading were both somewhat poor, taking away from the experience of the course.
If you have time, speak more with the TF about papers and use the departmental writing fellow. that's a general suggestion for all phil courses.
This is a great course, but by no means a survey course or a broad introduction. It's strength is that it's deeply grounded in the texts, so be sure to do all of the reading. Farid's lectures are really helpful in grappling with some very difficult readings, but only if you're on top of the material. I found the best element of the course to be the discussion, which was enhanced by the small course size. I enjoyed this course more than I expected, but I also found it much more difficult than I expected.
Great class and great discussion. I ended up losing confidence in philosophy's ability to adequately address the mind-brain question, but it was a really interesting course nonetheless.
Amazing. The professor is very  engaged, and you will leave the class with a feeling of actually having a grasp on the field. The readings are long and difficult though.
Big thumbs up!
The texts were challenging, but worth it if you're interested in the material. Professor Masrour is a brilliant lecturer--you'll learn lots.
Those with an interest in these sorts of questions can benefit greatly from the chance to read and talk about them. Farid is a great teacher and good at encouraging precise and critical thinking. Don't miss the chance to talk with him whenever possible. And though the texts can seem difficult, don't get too lost in the details; the main arguments and the different styles are what you want to focus on, and this course is good for that kind of exposure.
If you're interested in philosophical problems relating to human perception and experience, take it.  Otherwise, you won't care about the class at all, and it will be very tough.  You should trust me on this one
Not a survey or history course, perhaps despite its name; gives students an introduction to certain major current positions on phil of mind.
The intrinsically fascinating nature of the questions asked in the class does not always translate into fascinating readings or fascinating papers. Philosophy is hard work, and moves slowly.
Philosophy of mind is the biggest intellectual disaster of the twentieth century, on the level of totalitarian ideologies and creationism.
If you are genuinely interested in the material, you will probably like the class. It will be difficult if you do not have any philosophical background.
If you're not comfortable writing philosophy papers, you shouldn't start with this class. A lot of the material is pretty heavy, although manageable (functionalism, some of the cog sci stuff). The more time you put into the readings and papers, the more you'll get out of it. But this holds for all philosophy.
it's a fun course because it raises thought provoking topics (ha, get it?).
The concepts are difficult to understand, but the material is highly interesting. The class also makes you smarter.
Great overview of the questions in philosophy of mind.
I came in to this class as a dualist and I'm leaving a dualist, but Professor Godfrey-Smith's presentation of the issues in philosophy of mind even though I disagree with him and the prevailing physicalist orthodoxy.
It sounds very interesting and is indeed very interesting.  But I was lost in all of the lectures after the first third of the class.  I felt that in the first third, I was really engaging with new ideas.  But after that, it was just a hodgepodge of interesting things that we never looked at in depth.  I came to no conclusions about the mind.
Good lectures, good professor, but wholly joyless material.
PGS is a great lecturer, manageable materials, fascinating material. Technically no background in phil required though esp. if you haven't read much an introductory class would help; but if you have and are enthusiastic, it's definitely an accessible mid-level class.
good survey course.
This class will make you think, in a good way. It provokes you to examine yourself and your mental life very closely.
the work is very manageable. there are only 4 things due. as long as you remember not to wait until last minute for the final paper, you'll be fine.
Come to the class prepared to have your views challenged!
The questions in this class are ones that I think are interesting to most people, rather than just to philosophers as can be the case with other courses in that department. If you are a philosophy concentrator, it's a good class and mostly painless. If you are not a philosophy concentrator, it may be slightly more intimidating, but it's entirely doable- especially since there is so much support. The final paper is great, because you can choose any topic which interests you and suits your capabilities, so it can be more philosophical or more scientific as you like.
Take a non-ethics based philosophy course in which the papers are more technical and less accessible beforehand, to acclimate to the type of philosophy writing in the course.
The class is interesting but the theories can be very hard to wrap your mind around.  There are a lot of different theories to learn and the readings on each of them are very dense.
The way that PGS teaches this class is wonderful, and if you can take it with him I highly recommend it (not that I don't recommend it with other professors, of course). He is a top-notch philosopher, so philosophy majors will be satisfied--but he is also highly cognizant of work being done in the brain sciences, and makes the class seriously useful for those with an interest in cognitive science. The reading is fascinating also, and the material really challenges you to think differently about things.
Super interesting class. Light course work and fun material. Professor and TF are there to help you out. Definitely tough if you've never taken a philosophy class before. Great for the science people out there.
If you're interested in anything to do with the mind, this course is vital. Even if you're approaching the mind from a purely empirical standpoint, you should know the various philosophical approaches.
The grades you receive on the papers (two of them) are most important for your grade in the class. If you're like me and don't go to office hours to talk over your paper with your TF (and have drafts) then don't expect scoring higher than a B+ or A- on any assignment. Final and midterm are both take home, and are fairly easy. Class is highly enjoyable and Peter Godfrey-Smith is a great professor.
PGS is a great lecturer and the sections are really great. A lot of freedom in this class to explore really interesting issues on a wide range of topics. So even though I don't like some of the weeks, there is definitely always a week for someone.
This class thoroughly covers philosophy of mind. The readings are great and it really makes you think.
The course material is incredibly topical and engaging. However, the lecture can feel a bit repetitive and tedious at times. If you engage in section and with the material, you will definitely get a lot out of this course.
This course takes a lot out of you mentally, and requires you to think critically and re-evaluate everything, including your own intuition. If any part of you believes philosophy to be 'impractical,' do not take this course. The material is fascinating and the questions it tries to address is important in trying to understand ourselves as thinking entities. I recommend this course to anyone with any interest in mulling over fascinating, frustrating, and engaging thought experiments.
Its stimulating, interesting, and fun.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. PROFESSOR CHEN IS THE WORST AND YOU WILL HATE YOURSELF FOREVER IF YOU DECIDE TO GO TO THE LECTURES. I REPEAT: DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS
Both professor Chen and the TF Shantia Rahimian are great.
You have to be interested in the material but it is very interesting and a great teacher and TF
A great way to begin considering what goes on in your head.  Careful, it'll make you think.
The workload seems like a lot, but it's pretty manageable. The theories are extremely interesting and Prof. Kelly's lectures are engrossing! You won't find a more compelling class if you're interested in phil of mind.
This class is a good introduction to philosophy of mind.  It is not as difficult as other philosophy classes insofar as it is not as analytic (this is a rough description, but I do feel that this class would appeal to more students than most philosophy classes for whatever reason).
Excellent course that challenges common assumptions regarding the mind and provides a high level of analytical discourse.
very interesting topics to discuss every week
It's a great course if you are interested in the material; if not, it is very difficult and may prove to be frustrating.
This is a good class for anyone who likes philosophy, psychology, or neurobiology. The material is challenging and might seem esoteric if you're not really into any of these subjects, but if you are it is really interesting.
great investigation of the mind and consciousness.  helped me analyze and understand the mind in new ways.
Fantastic subject, fantastic professor, I really can't complain about anything.
The material is inherently very interesting.  The readings are great.  It is not a difficult course in terms of the assignments--only 3 papers.  However, class is not always very exciting and is sometimes dry.
A pretty relaxed course, which you will enjoy if you know that you are interested in the subject matter. If you think that philosophy is impractical you won't like this course.
Participate--you gain more by engaging with the arguments presented than by passively understanding them.
This class provides a broad overview to different topics in philosophy of mind--just what you'd expect from the description and the title. A good choice for learning a little bit about a lot of thinkers, but not particularly in-depth in any one area.
Philosophy of mind is, in my opinion, one of the most interesting topics in modern philosophy. If you have any interest in it, you must take this class (with Prof. Chen)! The readings were extremely well chosen; they covered a very wide array of questions in philosophy of mind, and were short enough that you could actually seriously and slowly read about them - and think about them - before lectures. Many of the questions in this field are very confusing, but Prof. Chen's explanations are clear and masterful. This course is difficult because of the inherently confusing and difficult nature of the questions that it asks, but everything about the way that the course is conducted - the readings, the assignments, the lectures - is pretty optimally geared to give you as clear a picture as is possible. I worked really hard in this course, but it was one of the most satisfying experiences of my Harvard career. Take this course!
Professor Chen is a lovely lady who is rather merciful on papers. This was good, not because I wanted a good grade, but because it gave me more time to focus on learning the material without the added stress of turning in a perfect paper. I actually feel my education on this subject was better for the fact that the grading was more lax than in other philosophy classes.
Cheryl does a great job facilitating discussion. If you already know some phil mind, some of the lectures - especially at the beginning - may not be worth a lot to you. The curriculum starts with Cartesian dualism, identity theory, and behaviorism (all of which are super wrong) before getting to functionalism and its associated challenges. But in general, you get to confront some interesting questions. If you don't know any phil mind, definitely consider this class. Phil mind is one of the most important and interesting kinds of phil, and it will only get more so as AI continues to advance. If you do know some phil mind already, like I did, feel it out. I'll say I was very pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed the course, relative to how I felt during the first few weeks of foundation-building. You can bolster your understanding of the vocabulary and methods of the major literature, and even when you're sure a reading is wrong, it can be a good exercise (and sometimes challenging!) to state exactly why it's wrong.
Amazing discussion on topics you will never encounter elsewhere. Grading is strict but fair. Don't expect an A unless you really work for it.
Awesome class. Really enjoyed going to class each day and learning. The readings are incredibly interesting and by doing the readings you will be able to participate/enjoy lecture and section more.
Professor Chen is a really great person to get to know in the department, and the size of the course the year I took it really facilitated getting to know her well. You do have to keep up with the readings and do the exercises (twice a week) but the readings are all reasonable in length. Course material is challenging, but of course so is Philosophy of Mind.
My favorite philosophy courses are often on the ethical side, but this is a great exception. The ideas are all fascinating, and Professor Chen is the perfect guide.
It's an okay class, pretty easy. Cheryl Chen is very chill and nice, and she takes time to explain the arguments to you. If you have some philosophical background, this may make the class seem slow-moving.
10/10 great material
Well organized and clearly taught, but the professor doesn't seem to personally have a super nuanced/thoughtful view on the issues
This is a low-stress class. It's also very interesting. Philosophy of the mind is really baffling. Although grading was a bit tough
Philosophy of mind is an extremely interesting subject, and if the topic is something you've thought about in the past, you'd likely enjoy the material covered in the class. While I was fairly unhappy with the way the class was run, I think it's worth it for the discussion I wouldn't have gotten if I had done the readings on my own.The lax manner in which the class was managed significantly degraded the experience. There were almost no requirements, with the only graded work coming in the form of three essays, each of which relied on a single reading (of the students' choice). This meant that on any given day, it was pretty apparent that most of the students had not done the reading. Obviously everyone skips readings sometimes, but it became a serious problem when people stopped doing pretty much any of the reading. The professor, Cheryl, needs to address this issue in the future, maybe by instituting weekly reflections. They might not be fun, but there needs to be some way to make sure the readings get done.
This class is a great way to learn about analyzing the world through a philosophical lens
Great class if you are considering getting a secondary in Philosophy of Mind.
a great all-round intro to the topic.
Cheryl is an absolute delight, both in the classroom and in office hours. Simultaneously sharp and nice. The material is very interesting and lies at the heart of the big questions about consciousness and the relationship between mind and body.
It's a gem. It's really interesting material, a great introduction to philosophy as a whole. Conducted in a roundtable setting, lectures are engaging and promote lots of discussion (participate!). Workload is extremely minimal -- 3 papers for the entire semester. Professor Chen gives out detailed lecture notes for each class, so you don't even really have to do the readings or pay attention. That being said, you'll get more out of the class if you keep up with the readings and can participate better in lecture.
