Selection of Marx's texts is great and very relevant!
Very relevant to today's world given the crisis of capitalism.
This course serves well as either an introduction to Marx, or as an opportunity to continue to refine thoughts on and interpretations of Marx's works. The final third of the class, which focuses on an introduction to analytical Marxism, was particularly interesting, providing a fresh lens through which to engage with major Marxian texts. If you keep up with the reading in the first 2/3 of the course (particularly Capital), it will definitely pay off.
You may not like your grade at the end of the year, but you just might emerge a revolutionary. Marx is brilliant. Professor Shelby is brilliant, and a great lecturer, and really funny. At the beginning of the year, Prof. Shelby compares Marx's work to Syriana -- it's incomprehensible at first, and then at a certain point it all makes sense. That definitely happened, and it was the coolest thing ever.
This course is an excellent exposure to the mass of interesting questions in Marx and Marxism. The work load is extremely fair and the readings are all incredibly interesting. Also, Professor Shelby is an incredibly entertaining lecturer. Take this course if you want to have breadth and depth of understanding of Marx and Marxism.
If you want to read a lot of the Marxist cannon, this could be a good excuse; disclaimers include relatively unengaging lectures and sections.
The readings are great for the most part, but be ready to clash with the course's viewpoint if you want to take them to a deeper level of understanding. If you don't want to understand Marx, but just oversimplify his work and stuff him into some category, forget it.
This class will be full of bourgeois apologists and students who want to "know their enemies", so beware of loud-talkers who don't really understand the material in lecture & section.  Otherwise, you are missing out on something if you never take a class with Prof. Shelby.  He is a boss.This class focuses on "Analytical Marxism", which is a nice departure for many Social Studies students, and a familiar form of discourse applied to something totally new for Philosophy students.
If you would like an introduction to Marxism, you should take this course. If you know some Marx and but want to know more, you should also take this course. If you know Marx and want to discuss further, know that this class focuses exclusively on analytical Marxism and not continental or structural Marxism. You will not be discussing Derrida, or Althusser and/or Balibar.
I would tell future students to spend the time doing the readings slowly to really understand the material.
If you keep up with the readings (can be easy to fall behind because the readings are dense and relatively long as compared to other philosophy classes), this course is an excellent, unique opportunity to really gain an understanding of Marx. You can become one of the select few people who have a critical understanding of Marx - as opposed to all of the pretentious people who just enjoy quoting him all the time when it's convenient for them. I, unfortunately, did not adequately keep up with the readings, but YOU SHOULD. :P
If you enjoy social theory and Marx, this is a great class for you. That said, it's very self-selecting, and if you don't have any background in it, you'll feel a bit adrift among your section peers who are single-handedly starting the worker's revolution. Or armchair revolution, really.
This class is absolutely invaluable to anyone interested in history or social theory. Marx is not often discussed at Harvard (except perhaps as one writer out of many in a Social Studies course), which I think is a real shame. The richness of Marxist argument and methodology deserves a semester-long study. And because Marxism has had such a global impact, taking this class has has the side effect of developing my understanding of 20th century art and history. Shelby is a fairly good lecturer, and lecture and section are particularly helpful for beginning to understand and interpret Marx's writings.
This is a great course for people who are interested in bringing together the power of Marxist thought and the rigor of analytical philosophy. People who want to approach Marx from a "Continental" angle will be bound to be disappointed.
it's quite a bit of reading, and the reading is dense and confusing.
Leaves you with solid foundation in Marx, readings and papers are manageable.
you must like or at least appreciate Marx
Recommend it, as long as you will be able to complete the readings
This course is a great introduction to the nuance and rigor of Marx's work.
Course was divided into three components: early Marx, later Marx (Capital), and 20th century analytical Marxism. Units one and two great for getting a great understanding of Marxism. Third unit VERY 'ANALYTICAL.' Section component always a highlight of the week -- people's true colors fly, you see who's down with it and who's not. Can be funny.
This is a really good overview of Marxism and Analytical Marxism, and a great way to fulfill any Social Studies/Philosophy concentration requirements! The material is difficult, but engaging; you will need to spend time to grasp the intricacies of Marxist political theory. Professor Shelby is a brilliant and very kind person, and I highly recommend attending his office hours!
If you don't take this course you risk false consciousness and impotence as a would-be effective historical actor. Marxian theory is KEY to understanding contemporary political life. This class will radically change the way you see your world and understand yourself. The material is fascinating and the reading load isn't heavy at all. You should absolutely take this course.
This course is amazing for gaining basic important knowledge about Marxist thought that you will not find elsewhere at Harvard. be prepared for a purely philosophical approach, however: if you are looking for a more practical or contemporary-critical approach, this is not for you.
Interesting readings, great professor, and typically high quality section conversations. Not your typical philosophy course, and all the more special for it.
The content of the class is thought provoking and applicable but also quite technical, certainly not that of everyday conversation.
Perhaps this seems basic, but I did not recognize it going in: Marx was very economics-focused. There is a lot more discussion of the merit of various economic systems than there is in most philosophy courses. That's all to say, an interest in economics (which I don't have) would probably be a pretty helpful trait for enjoyment of the course. The writing of Marx are difficult works; if you are not interested in their topic, the class can feel pretty laborious and alienating (puns intended).
If you want to learn about Marx, take the class! We hit on everything
The actual material is interesting, but it is difficult to get a word out in section when everyone has very strong opinions about Marx. Also, don't take this course if you don't agree with Marxist ideology.
It's a good excuse to read a lot of Marx, but the second half is much less interesting.
The class is well-taught and Professor Shelby is amazing. I highly recommend.
A very helpful overview of Marx's writings, although students not in philosophy may not get as much out of the second part of the course on analytic Marxism (especially if their discipline has more Frankfurt School leanings). Still an illuminating and incredibly well-taught class
It's a really great class, and it's easy to get into regardless of how much you know about Marx.
Awesome course.  I had very little previous exposure to Marx and was still able to manage.  Lecture is engaging, but there aren't slides, so be prepared to take good notes.  The readings can be long, but I always found them interesting and you will get the most out of the course/lecture/section if you tackle them.  Definitely reach out to the teaching staff to go over paper ideas.  Paper lengths are reasonable.
Familiarize yourself with Marx before taking this class!
If you're even a little interested in Marx, this is a great course to take. You won't find this kind of serious engagement elsewhere at Harvard.
Lots of focus on textual interpretation, not so much on Marx's ideas- if that's your thing, go for it, otherwise the class may come across as too scholarly or specialist.
Take this course! This course, while not specifically in my field, has been one of the most important for my growth as a scholar.
This course gives a a great treatment of the many sides of Marx and Marxism through a philosophical lens. An economics class might tell you about implementations of Marxist ideals, but this course will help you understand the fundamental underpinnings of Marxist theory.
Great class. Lectures are great (if you go to them), readings are interesting, Marx is amazing.
Learned a ton and had fun doing it! Great lectures and readings that kept me thinking for days afterwards.
Take this course. I had no pressing interest in Marx, and no previous experience with his work (somehow), but I learned an immense amount of theory that has proved very helpful in understanding the world and other disciplines.
A great overview of Marx and 20th Cent. Analytical Marxism. The lectures tend to be a little unsystematic, the professor likes to chat; but still very rewarding.
Absolutely worth taking. Even if you hate socialist countries (as many of us do), it is NECESSARY to read Marx and see what he is up to. If you have not studied any Marx before, I assure you that you will be shocked to see a new perspective on capitalism and issues of our day (without necessarily turning into a communist believer). The course itself chose text from Marx wisely, giving a clear overview of Marx's thoughts. Professor Shelby gave clear explanations, TF Sandy (Sanford Diehl) is friendly and helpful. You will like this course!
