Ned is an amazing instructor, so any class with him is guaranteed to be awesome. This class is no exception. Be prepared to engage with really really abstract ideas though. If you need things grounded in some kind of obvious practical application, this might not be for you.
Great class. Ned is fantastic, as always, and Kate Vredenburgh is an excellent TF! The readings are sometimes difficult, but the introductory text is very helpful. The assignments aren't always the most engaging, but they're very helpful in improving your philosophical writing and argumentation. Sometimes the class felt disconnected, jumping between issues, and not really united until the end. Overall, what you would expect from an upper level philosophy class. If you like philosophy, definitely take it.
Not an *amazing* class, but a solid one nonetheless, and there's no reason not to take it if you're already inclined towards the field/the material. Especially if Ned's teaching it you should highly consider this class he's a great guy and a good teacher.
THIS IS THE BEST COURSE EVER.
This class is all-around great-- the readings are challenging but rewarding, the assignments are difficult but thought-provoking, and class itself is an ideal combination of lecture and discussion. Ned is great at not only synthesizing the ideas from the reading and presenting them to the class along with commentary, but also at facilitating discussion-- at any point during the "lecture," you can ask questions or make comments, and Ned is also really great about identifying the essential point of your question and answering it in a way that provokes further thought about the ideas and readings.
This class is brilliant! There exists a possible world, w1, where Ned's the coolest tenured professor teaching philosophy and I suspect w1 is not that far away from the actual world.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. You must take it!
It's a good class. You'll get a lot out if you put a lot in.
This class is really difficult.The readings are really tough -- dense and nuanced -- and there are lot of difficult concepts to grasp. That said, Ned and Kate are both amazing -- really accessible and committed to student growth. Overall, I think one would have gotten more out of this course having taken more philosophy classes beforehand, and I recommend waiting until junior or senior year (I am a sophomore, and although I've already taken 2-3 philosophy classes, I still felt somewhat unprepared for this class and did not get as much out of it as I think I might have if I had waited).
Take this class! Ned and Kate are thoughtful, sincere, genuinely lovely human beings, and they care 100% about you (your academic achievement, your happiness, and your well-being). The material is very interesting and touches on a lot of different areas in philosophy. The course is challenging without stupefying, and the community is great--you get to know your classmates so much better than in other courses, and the philosophical discussions that result are truly meaningful.
Personally, I find the high level of abstraction characteristic of metaphysics to be pretty fun on its own, but I think the greatest strength of this course is Ned's ability to make completely explicit the connections between metaphysics and other, more concrete domains of human life and thought like ethics, science, etc.
