This class is life-changing. Sean Kelly is a great lecturer and Heidegger will blow your mind.
It will re-wire the way you think, and radically alter the way you think about your everyday existence.
If you're at all interested in continental philosophy, give this course a try.
If you haven't had experience with long and tense continental philosophical texts, then you might want to give the class a few weeks before committing. It's kind of an acquired taste.
This was a really excellent class. Prof. Kelly was a charming and clear-headed leader through the difficult forests of Heidegger's thought.
Reading Heidegger has changed the way I think about the world and my place in it, which should be the goal of any liberal arts course.
If you are interested in phenomenology, I highly recommend this course.
This class will change your life. Best I've taken at Harvard.
This class is "easy" in terms of workload but INCREDIBLY fulfilling. Absolutely recommended.
Professor Kelly is a wise and cheerful guide into this extremely challenging text. Being and Time shifted my perspective on everything from my interactions with friends to my very being. The course work is reasonable and requires more thought than time. Re-reading the book is rewarding and extremely helpful in getting a grasp of what in the world Heidegger claims! Professor Kelly is very supportive. Heidegger demands dedication, and it is worth every minute!
They talk about life changing courses and I would argue that this is one of them. There are few texts so challenging as Being and Time and no one more capable at leading you in and out of that hellish text than Sean Kelly.
Conceptually the most difficult course I have taken.
Take this class! Reading Being and Time is a huge undertaking, but manifestly worth it.
I took this course with the expectation that it would be "life-changing". What I did get was a broadened perspective of what philosophy "should" be about and how to reframe classical philosophical problems according to Heidegger, which I wouldn't want to trade for anything. That being said, this is a hard course with strict grading and not much hand-holding, so don't waltz into here with the expectations that this will be easy. You're often dealing with texts that cover topics that haven't been fully explored, and you won't be able to find many texts meaningfully criticizing Heidegger instead of building upon him. Take this interpretative project carefully, especially if you're a non-philosophy concentrator with no experience of the expectations within the Harvard philosophy department.
This course changed the way I view my everyday existence, and I think it can do that for you too.
As far as my intellectual life is concerned, this course has been life-changing. Not only is the subject extremely relevant and fascinating in itself, but also the course benefits from an incredible teaching staff, from professor Kelly to the teaching fellows (who might change next year, so please keep that in mind). Professor Kelly is famous around here for the unparalleled clarity of his teaching, and this gift becomes invaluable when the object of the course is one of the most mysterious and dense pieces of philosophical literature ever written in the Western world. He is also profoundly engaging -- his enthusiasm for the subject is contagious -- and really cares about the students. My TF this year, Manon, was terrific: extremely rigorous and resourceful and always very accessible outside class. Section was very efficient and she would always look for feedback on her teaching. Also very helpful in helping us working on our writing skills. That being said, the course was certainly not a piece of cake. Heidegger's 'Being and Time' is one of the most incomprehensible philosophical works ever written, and going through even only one page is always quite the ordeal (there were some 20 pages per week). The grading is also very rigorous, and very few students would get A's on their papers (at least for the first two papers -- results for the third one are not out yet). If you are thinking of taking this course I would recommend familiarizing yourself with the work of Hubert Dreyfus on the matter. Especially the book 'Being in the World', which served as an invaluable resource throughout the course, but also Dreyfus's online lecture at Berkeley about the first division of Being and Time. Kelly was a student of Dreyfus and they share a lot in their ways of teaching and approaching the subject.
Heidegger is hard, and there's no getting around that. But it's also incredibly rewarding. This class will make you think (clich, I know). Really taking the time to pore over the readings is an absolute must to get the most out of this class.
Fantastic class - challenging, but absolutely worth it. Heidegger is a giant and B+T will change how you see the world, and help you understand other philosophers much better. Lecture is excellent; you can get away with not doing the readings if you pay attention in class
Don't hesitate to take this class. Heidegger is intimidating, but it is an essential text to understand both in learning about yourself, the world, and traditional philosophy. The commentaries are extremely helpful, and if you read them and go to lecture, you can understand about 90% of the material. The hardest part (the last 10%) is seeing smaller nuances, but since there are only 3 papers this is not always necessary to do.
This course is incredible and Professor Kelly is a wonderful person.
Great class in terms of structure (lectures and sections were quite good). Heidegger is tough to read, though. I took this as my first legit philosophy class at Harvard, which I think may have been a mistake. You need to know how to write a good philosophy paper - especially with a thinker who uses so much jargon. Professor Kelly did a great job elucidating Heidegger's meaning during lectures, though. He also provided us with useful supplemental readings which helped me a great deal in writing the papers. This class was a challenge but I definitely do not regret taking it - any chance to be taught by Sean Kelly is worth taking.
This class is incredible -- you will engage with fascinating new ideas, and entirely new frameworks. However, be ready to make a serious effort with Heidegger. This doesn't necessarily mean hours reading or writing, but rather that you must commit to carefully considering Heidegger's ideas throughout the day.
If you enter this course with an open mind and refrain from exhaustive criticism, this course will revolutionize your conception of life and society itself and obliterate any and all presuppositions you have. This course is a must for anyone concentrating in Philosophy. Furthermore, the opportunity to read Being and Time with Professor Kelly is priceless. Being and Time is immensely daunting and seemingly inaccessible when you first approach the text. Professor Kelly helps you build intuition and understanding of Heidegger's confusing concepts and vocabulary while giving you a larger perspective of how Heidegger's text is situated in the trajectroy of Western philosophy.
If you are interested in Heidegger, this is the perfect course for you. You will not be at all disappointed!
This is a life-changing course. Challenge yourself, read Heidegger; it will change your life, and you will enjoy it.
Fascinating and HARD
