I would encourage future students to do all of the reading for this course. Aristotle can be difficult to read, but his writings are interesting.
This seemed like an ideal introduction to Aristotle. The readings were reasonably-sized, if sometimes skull-cracking. Lectures helped for understanding the material and were often fun. For being about Aristotle, this was relatively painless.
Aristotle was a really smart guy.
It's a great course if you want to dive in depth to Aristotle. Professor Jones is great about being available to discuss Aristotle or student work.
If you are interested in Aristotle take it, if you are just interested in philosophy in general, find another course.
The advantages of the class are that Jones is a clear thinking lecturer, a kind professor, and an engaging presence. The structure of the class is also productive without being too difficult. However, those who don't already know they enjoy ancient philosophy might find it difficult to see the urgency in Aristotle's work.
This course is essential for getting the basics of Aristotle's philosophy. Jacob Rosen is an excellent teacher: very engaging in lecture, generous with meeting students outside of class, and obviously brilliant. Be prepared to read a lot and work through difficult material.
Professor Rosen is a great resource to study Aristotle with! He explains very well and has very good examples! Ask him lots of questions.
It's easy to fall behind in this course, because if you haven't done the readings, you'll take away very little from the class.
It's an excellent and comprehensive, if necessarily oversimplified, overview of Aristotle. So take it if you're interested in Aristotle.
Jacob Rosen is wonderful.
Some people found your style too "relaxed" (whatever that means), so I might let others know that this is an opinion some had. I, personally, find such criticisms about style to come from big babies who need the professor to feed materials to them with the spoon of excitement. At the same time, it might be something to work on since undergrads at this institution are entitled and will give you bad reviews for being "boring."
