I assume this course was much better with Korsgaard.
Its really dense and not particularly enlightening. The logic is convoluted and it undercuts the philosophy. The material is difficult and the rewards are few. Without a stronger leader of discussion who can work out the details of the philosophy clearly, I would not recommend this course.
Be prepared to read very dense and difficult material and hope your professor makes outlines or explains the readings very well.
Tedious, not particularly inspiring.  (Perhaps because I feel Kant gets it all wrong.)
You have to be interested in the topic since it's not easy.  The Professor presents very well and gives thought-provoking interpretations, but more discussion would have been nice.
If you are interested in Kant as given by a very enthusiastic professor and want to see how the concepts he poses are still relevant take this course. It is also pretty good when you want to practice writing on some of your own ideas, since the topics posed are broad and  lot of thoughts on your part are required to complete longer essays.
A course on Kant is a very frustrating way to fulfill your Ethical and Moral reasoning requirement.
David Sussman is a visiting professor, so I don't know who would teach this course.  I can't speak to a Kant course taught by an instructor other than him.
Some of the material is very difficult to understand, but the class is not too much work and Professor Sussman can be pretty entertaining.
Professor Sussman, though visiting, is a great professor.
Nearly all classes in college will make you a more knowledgeable person. Few will make you a better person. This course will (if you let it). I was initially hesitant to take this course because it narrowly focuses on a single work from a single philosopher. I am happy to say that I have no regrets. Taking this class made me realize how many of Kant's ideas are at the foundation of our moral thinking even today. Professor Korsgaard will warn you not to take this course if you do not have prior philosophical experience. I agree that this would be useful, but I would say that ultimately the only real prerequisite to taking this course is a genuine interest in the material. If you do not care deeply about morality, you will be bored in this class, and the material will appear redundant. However, if you're brave enough to delve into the dense (but relatively few) pages of the Groundwork and ready to read and reread the same paragraph over and over again in order to arrive at a firmer understanding of your role as a moral being, then this is the course for you. And, it goes without saying, that Professor Korsgaard is the one to take it with. Reflecting on the classes that I have taken so far, I would say with the most certainty that what I learned in this course will stick with me for the rest of my life.
This was a fantastic course that changed my understanding of moral philosophy. Korsgaard is an amazing professor whose lectures are fast-paced and challenging, but very rewarding if one invests time in the class. That being said, it is a difficult class and not an introductory class. I would only recommend this class to those who have taken a few other philosophy classes, otherwise Kant and Korsgaard might prove a bit too challenging.
Definitely take it if you are at all interested in Kant and/or foundations of ethics.
It really helped me understand and become more sympathetic to a way of approaching ethical questions that I previously thought would be somewhat obfuscating and rather unhelpful.
Kant is difficult to understand for all of us. Korsgaard is one of the leading Kantian philosophers today, and delivers incredibly articulate and challenging lectures. It is a treat to hear her speak. She also has an excellent sense of humor when it comes to Kant's arguments and inconsistencies.
It won't be easy, but Dr. Korsgaard is maybe the most inspiring professor you can take a class from while at Harvard.
Excellent class. You learn so much and Korsgaard does a great job of making Kant accessible and interesting. The assignments can be a bit much however, as there are 5 papers assigned throughout the semester as well as one final paper.
There are a lot of difficult assignments, and you will be writing frequently! However, you will get so much out of it. And if there's an opportunity to really understand Kant, this is it. The course requires a lot of work, but it will make you reconsider your views on ethics and appreciate the beauty of Kant.
It will change your life in the way that you always thought a philosophy class might be able to.
It is a must-take if you are interested in meticulous and accurate ways to argue for some really important issues relevant to our everyday life:)
This was an unexpectedly convincing introduction to Kant's theory. While I didn't expect to become a Kantian (and I don't think I quite did), I came out with a much greater appreciation for Kant and for philosophy in general than I had when I started. I'm quite grateful for that.
Not the best for people who don't like read lectures, but the subject matter is fantastic and the interpretations of it are excellent.
This class is what a lecture course should be. Professor Korsgaard respects students' time by delivering rich, illuminating, and entertaining lectures. The texts are justified landmarks. The writing assignments developed students' understanding of key aspects of Kant's thought. And the section operated on the basis of respectful conversation, sometimes with philosophical experiments thrown in.
I think that absolutely everyone should take this course, so at the very least, if you're a philosophy student, you need to take this course! I know that everyone says that taking Korsgaard's Kant class is a must-do, but the beautiful thing is that the course itself is actually exceedingly enjoyable and rewarding. Thinking seriously about Kant will make you question your own system of morality. Korsgaard's lectures are unlike any I've ever seen - she comes in with an incredibly detailed lecture outline and proceeds to basically just drop knowledge on you for the duration of the hour-long lecture. It's kind of exhausting because you really need to pay attention the entire time, but at so many points during these lectures, I walked away feeling like the point that she had clarified/the distinction that she had drawn gave me an entirely new way of thinking about personal morality. So revolutionary. You'll also meet great people in the class who have similar interests. TAKE THE COURSE! One of my absolute favorites at Harvard.
Fascinating class on Kant from the foremost leader on the subject, though it can sometimes be dry.
This is the best course I have taken in this department. I have learned to read, think, and write in a new and fruitful way. It is a life-changing experience.
Take this class if you like philosophy.  Listening to Korsgaard talk about Kant is awesome
For those who are interested in ethical theory and philosophy, this is an absolutely fantastic course!  I would also encourage just about anyone to take it, as I think more people should really think more critically about the ethical implications of their actions.  This course does an excellent job facilitating such thinking.
Be prepared to do a lot of writing. Class handouts are comprehensive.
Before enrolling in this course it is important to note that it is not an easy course. An introductory philosophy course and some previous exposure to Kant is necessary. The reading is difficult, and at times can be entirely opaque. That being said, Professor Korsgaard's lectures are illuminating and help to direct your thoughts about the material. Indeed, these are probably the best lectures you can attend. The final course meeting was truly inspiring. Section is also very helpful for paper writing and general student discussion (which is not very common in lecture). All in all an excellent course that makes you consider one of the most complete systems of morality available to us.
Christine Korsgaard. Nough said.
If you buy into Kantian metaphysics, this might be the class for you. Otherwise, an extremely painful way to fulfill an ethical reasoning requirement.
It's Kant with Korsgaard. You'll get an introduction to one of the most important and most difficult moral philosophers ever from one of his best interpreters. Try to keep in mind, though, that you are very much getting Korsgaard's Kant.The course is quite rigorous, but manageable for anyone willing to make the effort.
This is a challenging course. The lectures are very well structured, and the handouts are incredibly helpful. Nonetheless, the standard for papers is extremely high, even for those deeply immersed in philosophy. I would recommend the course, but certainly as a grade booster.
This class is definitive if you're curious about Kant's ethical system. Given that Kant's ethics is one of the major systems people consider today, it's definitely worth understanding. However, Kant is a difficult writer to read. It's hard to get through his language to figure out what he means, and it can be infuriating. If you have experience with philosophy and Kant, it's a rewarding challenge. This class actually made me respect Kant to some extent. On the other hand, if you don't have experience with philosophy or don't enjoy grappling with philosophers, I imagine this class would just be a waste.
This class is a real philosophical experience in rigurous reading and analysis of Kant's ethic--which, in their turn, are fascinating and a must-know. And it seems hard to find enyone who is better than Prof. Korsgaard for thir purpose.
I would recommend it, but not to graduate students interested in serious and sustained exegesis of Kant's ethical writings.
Korsgaard's knowledge of the subject matter is unquestionable, and she does an excellent job of conveying that knowledge to students and helping them understand the relevant concepts, in lecture, in handouts, and in paper topics. Be prepared, however, for some very dense material that cannot be understood with just a couple read-throughs.
Extremely good course, but you have to want to spend a lot of time reading and thinking about Kant.
Kant is incredible. Take this class when Chris Korsgaard is teaching it.
This is without a doubt the best course I have taken at Harvard. Prof. Korsgaard has a lot to say, and she conveys it in an interesting and passionate way. This course will make you think deeply about issues relating to ethics, agency and identity.
Great course but you must be interested in the material to appreciate it. Also should have had some previous experience in philosophy course(s).
You need to be prepared to spend an entire semester with the works of one author. This is more difficult than it may sound.
Only take it if you are absolutely sure that you wish to spend hours trying to understand some of the densest philosophy available.
To take the opportunity to learn Kant from Professor Korsgaard!
Don't let the apparent density of the first few weeks get you down! If you commit to it, the final stretch is amazingly rewarding.
Professor Korsgaard on Kant is like sunlight breaking through the clouds. I think this class has also just made me a better person.
If you take this class seriously, attend & listen carefully to the lectures, and do the reading, it can change how you see the world and understand your moral life.  If you're not going to do those things, take another class.  It's really hard.
Take this class if you meet the following criteria:1. You have taken some philosophy: this class is very rigorous, and Kant's arguments are highly complicated and involved. They require abstract thinking, logical scrutiny, and some familiarity with the types of questions posed in Phil 8.2. You have taken some Kant. Kant is highly complicated and abstruse. Be prepared for the worst prose stylist in the history of Western thought.3. You have a deep interest in ethics or Kant: this class can often be grating on one's morale. It is often dry, hard to agree with, and difficult. If you are interested in ethics in general, Kant's position is singularly unique and fascinating. If you are interested in Kant (as I am, hence why I took the class), this will give you a deeper and richer understanding of his philosophy.If you meet the above criteria, you will gain tremendously from this class.
Be prepared to think hard.
it's a tough class, but leaves you with a thorough understanding of kant, which is in a lot of ways, satisfying
Take the class if you are at all interested in morality.
This is a hard class. The subject matter is difficult to understand. But Prof. Korsgaard explains it very well and it is very interesting.
A very good course taught by perhaps the most important figure in the field. However, secondary readings might be more helpful then lectures at times.
This was the best course I have ever taken, at Harvard or elsewhere. It will not only make you think hard, it will make you a more moral human being. Plus, it's fun to be able to speak knowledgeably and argue about Kant's theory. Don't be dissuaded if Korsgaard seems personally aloof; take copious notes during her lectures because they are the best you'll ever hear.
You will get the most out of this course if you think of it as a sort of a demonstration of how to engage with a historical text and how to produce a powerful philosophical argument for one interpretation of a great text. You'll get less out of it if you think of the professor as a mouthpiece for Kant or as an oracle who reveals the text to you. Remember that the professor is part of a long historical conversation about what Kant is up to in his moral philosophy. Take her as authoritative on her own position, but do not assume that any good reader of Kant will necessarily understand the text exactly as she does. (And, with due humility, do not assume that you are wrong if you read Kant differently than she does.)
it is a lot of work but it is very satisfying and certainly gives one a solid foundation in Kant
Be prepared to work.
If you've taken an intro philosophy course and you're curious about what concrete terms morality could possibly be based on, this course is for you.  And Christine Korsgaard makes Kant understandable, so don't let his name scare you.
Professor Korsgaard is one of the world's most renowned Kant scholars, and her lectures on Kant alone make this class worth taking.
I feel like I learned a lot about Kant in this class, but through blood, sweat, and tears (lots of them.) For me, sort of a painful course overall with relentless papers and weekly postings. Prof. Korsgaard clearly knows her stuff, but seems a bit aloof. A good class if you like Kant and aren't looking for any sort of GPA boost
This course is the best course on Kant, and since Kant is very important to philosophy, you should take this course if you are willing to challenge yourself in philosophy.
As someone who had never taken any courses on Kant before, this class was an incredibly helpful and interesting way into some extremely difficult content. The class was so well organised and taught with obvious care and attention that I was able to get to grips with texts I would have no doubt struggled to get to grips with on my own.
If you are interested in ethics, take a class with Korsgaard.  She could run a course on the ethical arguments in favor of punting puppies, and it still would be worthwhile to hear her express difficult thoughts clearly and succinctly.  Lucky for you she is advocating a considerably more interesting theory.
Best class I've ever taken so far.
This course will change your moral compass, or at least offer a strong critique of it to broaden your perspectives - it is engaging enough to change your life in a palpable way.
It's hard but doable
You will learn a lot about very interesting things, but you will read the most hellishly written prose imaginable.
This class is a lot of work, but it is work that will stimulate your mind and broaden your moral thinking.  I cannot recommend it strongly enough.
Kant is an essential part of any philosopher's education and the education of anyone who cares about ethics (which I hope is everyone). Even if this course was terrible you ought to take it for the sake of learning the basics of Kant. Luckily for you this course is in fact quite good.
Do the readings. Do them twice. Possibly three times.
This was a great course! It was very interesting to read Kant in so much detail, and to also see how Kant's ideas relate to some problems of morality today. There are very frequent papers for this course and the reading material is dense, but the papers are short and the weekly readings are short (though they take a long time). I thought the grading of the assignments was very fair.
Put in the time, the ideas make sense  after review.
To have one of the world's authorities on Kant teach a class on Kant is an enormous privilege. Take this course.
Challenging and hyper-specific class, do not take for a gen ed unless you have a strong interest in Kant.
This course is probably the best way of getting into Kant's ethical theory. That said, it is difficult and at times dry. Professor Korsgaard is an expert and a great professor.
Everyone should take this course if at all possible. Kant's moral philosophy changed the way that I think about morality from academic and personal standpoints.
This class is an exceptional class and one of the best offered at Harvard. Kant was among the most groundbreaking thinkers to have lived, and his works are also among the most widely misunderstood outside the niche of Kantian analytic philosophers. At the end of the day, Korsgaard offers an intuitive and very compelling case for an ethical approach often not taken seriously by non-philosophers.
If you invest time in the course, the returns will be great.
This is a chance to study Kant with one of the foremost living scholars on him - Korsgaard is amazing and this class is a fantastic exploration of a moral system that many people don't fully understand
This is a Kant class, which inherently means that it will be difficult. Prepare to really engage with small chunks of very obscure readings and concepts. But all the work you put into the course will be incredibly rewarding, and Kant really presents a very positive, inspiring moral framework that is worth understanding.
Prof. Korsgaard is a brilliant thinker who has the rare ability to communicate her ideas clearly adn persuasively both in writing and in lectures. She really helps make clear some of Kant's most opaque and interesting ideas. And Kant's ethical ideas really are interesting and fun to engage with.
This class is on a fascinating topic taught by one of the greatest philosophical minds in the world right now
If you've ever thought about right and wrong, or whether morality is really even possible, take this course. Let there be no doubt in your mind: Professor Korsgaard's lectures on Kant will give you a new view on Kant, morality, and how to live your life.
For those interested in philosophy, particularly ethics, this course is a must.
Please do not take this course! This course is so dry I took raw beef to class and it turned into jerky. I'm a philosophy concentrator and was excited to be in a class with someone as well renowned as Prof. Korsgaard but I was thoroughly disappointed. Her apathy was palpable, and lecture consisted of her reading off of a piece of paper. If she wants you to buy her books (as they're required for the course) just buy them and save yourself time and boredom. What a complete ripoff. As a philosopher who wants a modern engagement with Kant, to not think of him as some stuffy old fogey who wants you filled with a life full of hardship, I can hardly think of a worse person to present this thesis. I understand that this will have no effect on Prof. Korsgaard, but I thought it would be best to warn you, Korsgaard doesn't want you to waste her time, make sure she doesn't let you waste yours.
This course is very in-depth and gives a fantastic analysis of Kant's ethical theory. It also truly does provide good practice in defending moral beliefs and in making philosophical arguments. That said, the course is rather slow-paced, it does not concern any of Kant's political theories (which I believe are as important when it comes to moral judgments), and its lectures are not very engaging. Korsgaard, while clearly very knowledgeable about Kant, generally reads off (or at least seems to do so) a script, giving off the impression that simply reading her essays would provide equal insight (which is more or less true). If you are interested in the subject matter, however, by all means, you definitely should take this course.
This class was very methodical, which was fitting for the subject material. Korsgaard is brilliant; I would read her essays outside of class just for fun. I love the way Kant thinks; I felt so satisfied writing the essays and figuring out how to click them into place, just like a puzzle.
