Exceptionally good professor - engaging, interesting, and very committed to the tutorial. Very important subject matter/topic - even for those not primarily interested in ethics.
There is not a lot of reading or many papers, but the work you have is demanding and worthwhile.
The recommendation question is kind of silly, because it's required. Anyway, I think that you'll enjoy this class if you think of it as EXPOS--a way to improve your writing. Will it help everyone? Maybe yes, maybe no. Everyone will get something out of it, but it makes sure everyone is passing a minimum level of competence. Our tutorial isn't world changing, however, unlike the history tutorial or something. They whip you into shape there. They don't push too hard in Phil 97 (Oh, how I wish that they would push us harder!)
If you try to come to the course free of (intellectual) bias, you can't help but come out with a new love of Aristotle (or at least an appreciation for just how meticulous and thorough his texts are).  Professor Lavin's enthusiasm definitely helps ... you might not even realize you're being taught anything until you try to go to bed and realize that Aristotle's Function Argument is running through your head.
so good but dont take it if you're not a philosophy student
Its good, but you are the one who will control what you get out of the class and so have to be interested in it.
Good class - make sure you read EVERYTHING with thorough attention to detail, and stay on top of assignments no matter what.
This would have been a much more interesting class if I were more interested in the subject material. Make sure you take a tutorial that you find really interesting.
Very interesting and highly specific.  Doing the readings and thinking critically about the material make or breaks the difference in this course.  What you put in largely determines what you will get out of it.
It's really difficult and confusing, though strangely satisfying. If you like a mental challenge, take it, but if you want to end the semester with a solid understanding of how something works, this probably isn't the class.
It might change your immediate perception of the world around.
If you like philosophy of mind, I would definitely recommend this course. And even if you don't, you stand to gain a lot.
The class is engaging and really demands a lot of your analytical faculties.
I would think that your experience is dependent on the TF and the topic but this will be very writing intensive and you will be judged harshly about every word you put on your paper which makes for an amazing experience. Shantia was an amazing TF -so knowledgable and motivating.
This was a really excellent class. Shantia has a wonderful and lucid mind.
Don't take this course if you are not seriously interested in the philosophy of mind.
Shantia is the best TF ever. This was a fantastic class. I very much enjoyed the company of my classmates and hope to keep in touch with them all. I think we all had our opinions about consciousness reshaped!
Exposes you to really interesting new ways to think about the problem of phenomenal perception.
It is a very difficult course but one that is super thought-provoking and will lead to very interesting discussions and papers
If you're interested in moral philosophy take this course, Aleksy is the man and he seems like the pope of the subject so get ready to learn
The quality of your philosophy sophomore tutorial highly depends on the quality of your TF - perhaps even more so than the course topic and reading list. Your TF is going to be your main pathway into the material, they will provide feedback on your papers, they will be your main source of additional help, they will be the biggest influence over whether or not you enjoy the course. If possible, get a TF who you respect and do not clash with. The course itself is fantastic - a great environment for doing philosophy. I got tired of the broad scope, large class sizes and lack of useful discussion in intro Phil courses. This tutorial will give you the opportunity to delve deeply into philosophical ideas at a level you probably haven't done before. I also appreciated the fact that we were reading philosophy from 1960 onwards - so you can't simply go onto Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy and see that everything that should be said about a position has already been said.
Excellent course, highly recommend, let's meet while you take it and talk about what you think about the material.
This was a very challenging course, although it changes every semester so this comment is likely to be unhelpful
This is a good class for both concentrators and secondaries. It is not an overwhelming workload. I did spend a lot of time on my papers, but I really enjoyed it. I had a good understanding of the topics, so I could talk about them outside of class.
It's pretty good for a tutorial, but typical in that it has a lot of readings and 2-hour classes. If you don't have experience writing philosophy papers you may have trouble.
Very low stress way of approaching philosophy.
This choice for the phil tutorial jumped out at me, and it was certainly for a reason: the material was very interesting/engaging, and the discussions were very lively- they tackled some of the hardest questions known to man, as well as examine the arguments commonly used to prove or disprove God's existence. The class is entirely dependent on the energy of the students.
This class is only available (and mandatory for concentrators and secondaries) but it will very much improve your ability to reason and write philosophically.  Truly a great requirement from the Phil Dep't.
I wasn't particularly interested in the subject material, and it's always hard to read and write on a subject you're not enthralled with. I'd recommend waiting to take the course until the spring, when there are more subject options.
philosophy tutorials are a wonderful way to explore the modes of thought that define our age and this one did very well
Absolutely take this class as part of a concentration requirement/secondary field, especially because in my experience the enthusiasm of peers who are also interested in Philosophy was encouraging.  However, I would definitely not recommend it if you're trying to decide on your concentration/secondary field.  It's a requirement, but there are better and more interesting courses out there.
If you ever thought twice about the nature of perception and the relation that sensations have with reality, this is a course for you.
Good class, good discussions. Constructive experience but dull at times.
The whole class (as are all philosophy tutorials) is dedicated to the one topic of perception. It's an extremely interesting thing to think about, but towards the end, unless you're really interested and enthralled by the problems, you can lose steam a little. But because it's a tutorial, your classmates will always come in with fresh perspectives.
I suppose it doesn't really apply here, as you just end up being put in a philosophy tutorial for the semester you want to take one, but ask around about the professor teaching it in a given semester!
Paul was a great teacher. He had a bit of a hands off approach to allow students to generate the discussion topics (but he did send out discussion questions every week to guide us in purposeful directions). On papers, he would give us really great feedback, which was useful for improving our writing (he gave us the opportunity to rewrite our first two papers). I also particularly enjoyed the first twenty minutes of our last meeting, among other memorable moments in this course. I lastly loved Paul's quirky examples, some of which pertained to ice cream. I learned so much in this course! You should definitely take the tutorial even if you are not a philosophy concentrator - it is a great experience.
Take this class as long as it is taught by Enoch.
You may have already read Hobbes/Locke/Rousseau countless times, but you'll learn so much more from this course by reading slowly and critically and engaging in discussion in a small class setting. You'll also significantly improve your philosophical writing skills.
Great course. Interesting readings and thought-provoking discussions. Also, great for improving philosophy writing skills.
This is a fascinating tutorial topic! The readings were challenging but fun, and it's one of those topics which is obviously relevant to each of us. It's easy to see how we struggle with distortions of agency each day. I also liked the connections to psychology. This is a good tutorial for those who are interested in philosophy and mind, brain, and behavior.
the reading is minimal (30pgs a week, really?); read and do well in the section component. the papers aren't hard, but give yourself more time than you think you need to do them. it's easy to forget that this course has work when you are overwhelmed with other stuff that you have to do. don't sacrifice this class in order to do marginally better in another class; i did it and i definitely regret it.
Your experience totally depends on your TF and topic. Pick wisely, and make friends with the people in your section.
Paul is an excellent instructor in this branch of philosophy. Extremely interesting material, relevant to your life! Especially philosophizing about procrastination.
Yo I'm going to let the others TFs finish but Enoch is the best TF of ALL TIME. Obviously you probably won't have him for 97 but take another course with him.
Even if you think you're not really into Epistemology, I'd still consider taking this course. The readings are insightful and it is useful to learn some of the basic views about the definition of knowledge.
It depends on the TF teaching, but my section was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.
Take Paul as your TF or try to find someone in the Philosophy department who has as good a reputation in providing detailed feedback.
Davidson is definitely worth reading-he will make you think hard and expand your ability to read charitably. Prof. Nickel will teach you a great many things, and he will give you a superb example of how to conduct philosophy. However, he is very unclear about what he expects of you, and in the end I think he expects far too much.
A great way of introducing yourself to Berkeley, Leibniz, and Kant.
Be warned: you may come out of the course not believing in a mind independent world.
The readings are really interesting and it's a lot of fun discussing the issues in the readings.  It's not as formal of a philosophy class as others because the majority of the discussions are about your personal intuitions on moral issues, which makes for a really relaxed atmosphere.
Tutorials are great opportunities in which to test out any philosophical ideas you have in a small group setting.
You will work hard, but in the end the experience this course confers is totally worth it.
Tom is probably a stricter grader than other people in the philosophy department, but he's a good teacher and one learns a lot about the idealists and how to improve one's papers.
Don't take it
Know that you love philosophy.  If you don't, you will suffer.
This is a fascinating class that will change the way you think about talking and listening to others, thinking, believing, and holding true. You might not come out with a totally coherent picture in your head, but you will be thinking about what you learn here for a long time.
I would let them know that the topic is difficult but can be really intriguing/interesting.
It's interesting, really laid-back, and was overall a great sophomore tutorial experience.
You probably won't have the same tutorial leader as me
I really enjoyed the tutorial!! If this is indicative of the concentration, I am going to love being a philosophy concentrator!
It's a great topic for tutorial. The material is really fun, relevant, and engaging. Discussion was always interesting and dynamic.
Although this is a course that the department requires you to take regardless of whether you want to or not, it is definitely a course that will improve your ability to do philosophy well.
Be careful about the grading
This is an awesome tutorial. You really get to engage deeply with a smaller number of texts (in mine we spent the entire semester reading Descartes' Meditations). In addition, you get amazing feedback on your assignments. Not much work in between papers, just minimal weekly readings. Definitely come to class ready to debate and dissect, though -- enthusiasm is what really makes the tutorial come alive. Also if Richard Sanchez is teaching a tutorial, pick that one.
it's all right if you like personal identity questions. James is awesome but the course content is not.
If you chose a section you're interested in, you're golden!
Beware, it's dense philosophy!
If you are serious about developing philosophical skills, Phil 97 will help you do so in a very efficient manner.
metaphysics is definitely not for everyone but it can't hurt to know a little about it.
It's a good way to learn how to write philosophy papers.
The purpose of the tutorial is to shape your writing, so be prepared to be subjected to extreme rhetorical scrutiny.
This is a fun interactive course. The readings are difficult at times, but section helps to break them down and get a better understanding of them.
The sophomore tutorial system in philosophy is excellent.  I highly encourage you to concentrate or get a secondary!
A very important class that teaches you how to think and how to write for philosophy. Marc is an excellent, incredibly sharp TF.
This course is great! Byron's a wonderful teacher, and Rousseau is a brilliant thinker. Byron covers the major works of Rousseauthe Second Discourse, the Social Contractbut this course isn't geared toward political philosophy. Some of our best discussions were over the Letter to D'Alembert, Rousseau's writing on the theater. Being in such a small (5 person) class was an incredibly rewarding experience. The philosophy came alive when we were able to discuss it so intimately. Our classes each turned into real conversations, which was only possible due to the small size. I'm so glad I took this class.
Celine is a great discussion leader, and she really tries to make discussions as comfortable as possible (with high quality snacks and all). She expects everyone to participate, but there are many opportunities to do so. For one, there is an online discussion to which anyone can post, and Celine recognizes students who contribute to these discussions even if they don't necessarily speak in class. In class itself, Celine will NEVER call on you unless 1) she wants you to discuss something you brought up on the online discussions, or 2) she thinks you look like you wanted to say something but couldn't find the right moment to say it. I never felt nervous or shy coming into class as a result. As for the assignments, the workload is pretty light (about 20 pages of writing for the entire semester spread across 4 or 5 essays), and the topics are all clearly interpretable (NOT vague, or ambiguous, etc.).
This class has cemented what I already was fairly certain of--I love my concentration. Our small weekly discussions on Aristotle quickly became the highlight of my week. Our class meeting day was my most hectic day of the week, and often what got me through the stress was the anticipation of two solid hours of thoughtful, challenging, meaningful discussion of ethics at the end of the day.
Our advice is totally worthless since you'll have an entirely different topic with an entirely different TF. But for me, it was chill and great.
I would say don't take this class if it is taught by Marc. Marc is a very nice person but he is not a good public speaker/teacher. Although he provides very good paper comments, section is unproductive mostly because you spend a lot of time trying to figure out what Marc is saying. The readings however are interesting but dense and long.
Free speech is a subject that is genuinely interesting and immediately applicable to a great deal of the everyday life. Working through something so fascinating and relevant with such a small group is a very rewarding experience that I would recommend to anyone who has access to it.
Philosophy of the social sciences raises a number of crucial questions to which there do not seem to be good answers. I enjoyed learning about them, even though I'm not sure what a social scientist is to do.
These readings are essential for anyone who is considering studying or understanding race with any sort of philosophical nuance.
Extremely interesting and enriching, and if taught by Patricia, one of the best classes you can take at Harvard.
Re. material: Take this course if you are interested in metaethics and grounding normativity in empirical observations. Do not take the course if you are looking for a discussion on first-order ethics. Readings are dense, and frequently feel like particularly unclear philosophy. The material engages substantively with metaphysics, epistemology, and ethics, so if you're looking for an introduction to all three then I'd recommend it. Re. course structure: Discussions can feel lackluster -- it's on you to keep up with the readings, and if you don't then there are few consequences other than sitting through two hours of the weekly presenter clarifying their ideas with Javier. Re. grading: I've heard that this tutorial received lower grades than the other tutorials on our writing assignments. If there's a relevant difference in the performance of the students (i.e. if the students in this tutorial actually performed substantially worse on writing assignments than the students in other tutorials) then I'd have no qualms about this difference. Barring that difference, and if this is true, the lower grades in this tutorial are unacceptable -- there's no reason for the students in a course of the same difficulty and structure as the other courses to be subject to substantively different standards than their peers.
Great environment to explore philosophical thought!
The philosophy tutorial matters tremendously on two components- the topic and teacher. The topic is something you should genuinely already care about, and the department usually picks a good job selecting teachers. Noel was one of the most relaxed, yet brilliant teachers I have had so far at Harvard.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard for multiple reasons. (1) The best feedback I have received so far on my writing! (2) It helped me become a better writer and a better thinker than any other course. (3) Philosophy of social science was a fascinating topic, and I got to use it all the time. (4) Kate is just the most wonderful instructor I have had, she is SO STELLAR, so helpful, so smart, and so exciting to speak to.
Assignments and expectations: read 2-3 philosophy papers each week for group discussion; prepare a 1/2hr presentation on one paper for the (small) group; write three papers, 4-12 pagesif you haven't written much philosophy, that's not as much as it sounds, because complex ideas take a lot of words to express. This is a very fun class; it's great to have a group to discuss philosophy with, and it's small enough that almost everyone actually does the reading and comes with ideas to share. I had a good TF (Noel) and an interesting topic; go for the TF over the content, unless it's something you know you'll hate. I had a great time and gained good experience in writing and discussion; definitely worth taking even though I'm not sure if I'll concentrate or secondary in philosophy.
Really helpful class in terms of refining writing skills. Workload was sometimes a bit high in terms of length of readings/difficulty of some, but overall well taught class in nice smaller setting.
Tutorial is an awesome way to get good at philosophy writing and discussion quickly! Make sure to do the readings and participate, it will be worthwhile!
The Plato and Aristotle tutorial has fascinating, crucially important, and tremendously enjoyable texts, and Patricia Marechal is a stellar instructor. If any tutorial has either Plato or Patricia (or best of all, both of them), then definitely sign up to take it!
Make sure you're interested in the subject matter, otherwise its a bit dry
This was an amazing course! Very reasonable assignments that actually help you grow as a student and person.
Javier is great, but philosophy is hard. If you're interested in philosophy but do not have much background, I would take it with some reservations. i don't think I was invested in philosophy enough to absolutely enjoy the course; I think some discussion in section could get pretty abstract (e.g. water is not equal to H2O? what?). However, if you're curious about how evolution and ethics can be related in a philosophical sense, please do consider taking this class! I definitely got amazing feedback from Javier, who I felt as though genuinely cared about his students and their learning. In addition, I wish it was more clear how grade distributions worked; especially in a paper class, I couldn't help but think that the grading was a bit arbitrary.
This was a fantastic class!  Diana is great - super nice, accommodating, and very available to meet with.  The readings were genuinely really interesting and I liked the small class setting (6 of us).  I definitely learned a lot about free speech in the U.S. and while the Tutorial was titled Silencing Speech, I came away from the class with a stronger belief in the importance of free speech.
I can't speak for the other tutorials, but would highly recommend Pleasure/Pain in Aristotle/Plato. Patricia is a fantastic tutorial leader; the readings were interesting and well-chosen (feeding into a very coherent picture of the works we did read). I do wish we'd had more time to delve deeper into the material, but I think that's a time limitation for the class since it only meets once a week. Background is well-interwoven into the class, so no need to know anything about Plato/Aristotle to take the course. The grading is also very, very reasonable for a tutorial -- there're many opportunities to fix things about your paper before you submit the final version through the rewrite assignments. My only suggestion re: the course as it was in my year was that the student presentations varied wildly in how helpful they were, in terms of explaining the secondary source articles that we read. If I had to choose one thing to change, it would probably be to maybe incentivize better presentations through assigning them a bigger chunk of the participation grade.
My writing has improved so much despite the struggles of the semester.
I really enjoyed my tutorial on Plato and Aristotle. Patricia's lovely and so helpful and accessible. I improved my writing significantly over the course of the semester.
I don't think this version of the course will be taught again any time soon, but I would guess that any class that Noel teaches will be just as enjoyable and thought provoking.
This is exactly the sort of class Expos should have been. The assignments are short and meant to help hone particular skills in philosophical writing, leading up to a longer term paper at the end. James is an incredibly dedicated teacher, and his extensive feedback was very helpful. I felt like I improved considerably over the course of the semester.
This was a very interesting class and I learned a lot from it. I can actually feel I'm better at philosophy now! My instructor (James) is phenomenal and he really cares about each student and he gives a lot of useful and detailed feedback. He is also a great teacher and I never had any problems understanding what he taught. He is very kind and accommodating which is something I really needed during this semester because I was going through some problems. This class was very fun and definitely one of the greater experiences I've had since I've come to Harvard.
This class is incredibly rewarding, but only if you read all of the readings carefully and dedicate a lot of thought to your essays.
This course transformed my feelings towards philosophy. After two courses sophomore year that left me very confused and frustrated, this course diminished the fear and disdain I had for philosophy and led me towards a way of thinking that feels like the beginning of something profoundly liberating. As my tutor put it in class at one point "philosophy is continuous with thought itself"; as the course progressed I gradually understood this too mean that by studying the arguments made in the course, the student can begin to feel their beliefs change. This is a strange process, and a horrifying process when it happens unexpectedly. But studying philosophy in this course has given me the hope that in working hard to understand arguments, I can experience this process with my eyes open. To watch my beliefs change, in this way, is to witness something beautiful. I am very grateful that this course gave me the skills necessary to begin to see that witnessing and experiencing such a thing is possible. The course has only opened a door ever so slightly, but I'm now very excited to keep working. In this sense I feel this course has set me off on a very meaningful path.
The material is great, and it's a topic that probably invade other parts of your coursework and may lead you to question the importance of your own existence. Maybe.
If you're a philosophy major, by all means go for it, especially since you have to take it anyway. If you haven't done any philosophy, don't start with this.
This class was both more thorough and more fun than I could imagine an introductory seminar to be.
This course really depends on the instructor, so my experience won't help future students much. Try to pick a tutorial with a topic you are interested in, and check out the TF's past Q-guide ratings if possible to see what you're getting into.
The sophomore tutorial is key to cementing your place as a philosophy concentrator. Even if you don't like your TF or your topic, by the end of the tutorial you will feel like you've really engaged with philosophy in-depth in a small area.
Shantia is really great. Wonderful teacher, generous with his time, and just a really nice person. The class gets pretty technical and has a pretty narrow focus on the phenomenal concept strategy, so make sure you really want to do a deep dive on it.
This course was amazing, but that was largely because of Zeynep, my TF. I became a much sharper thinker after taking this course, and also feel much more equipped to take on difficult philosophical works.
Interesting topics that you will think about for a long time, especially if you are interested in the contents
This is the best class I've ever taken since I came to Harvard!
take this course! It will be difficult, but with dedicated effort you will learn a ton from this tutorial. You will become a better philosopher, in terms of both understanding philosophy papers and writing them yourself.
I had taken no courses in Philosophy of Mind prior to this tutorial, and, in spite of Philosophy of Mind not being my primary philosophical interest, I found the material fascinating.  Consciousness is a great subject with which to ground a course focused on honing fundamental philosophical skills.  Shantia is also an absolutely top-notch instructor, who will ensure that you personally get the most possible out of the material, and connect it with whatever else you might be interested in.  I recommend this tutorial without reservation.
My experience will probably greatly differ from yours, since the style of the tutorial is dependent upon its section leader. We only worked with one text so we got to really dig deep into passages, which I liked.
Be sure to like Smith  :)
My experience holds little information for future students since each tutorial is basically sui generis and offered once. In terms of building philosophical skills, analyticity was great because we made a habit of narrowing in really closely on a particular argument in a single passage and thoroughly deconstructing it. My general advice is to really take advantage of the opportunity to build relationships with the instructor, because the graduate students in the department are awesome, and with your fellow concentrators.
If you are at all even slightly interested in experiencing a small discussion class about a single philosophical topic, take this class. Analyticity is also hugely important in all of philosophy so it will be applicable in any future philosophical endeavors.
Very interesting subject matter. Always really interesting conversation and debates in class.
The tutorial is a fantastic experience. You get to look at a topic and several readings in real depth. Also, the small class size makes for great discussion. Zeynep is an absolutely wonderful TF: she is great at encouraging participation, she's always willing to make time to talk, and her homework comments are really helpful.
Definitely take a Philosophy tutorial! It's a wonderful way to interact with philosophy in greater depth and in a small class setting.
This is a great way to think about Adam Smith in a different way than just the Wealth of Nations, and really gets you thinking about how people interact with one another and upon what bases we judge what is moral and proper in society.  The small class is great too and lends itself to good discussion
Byron was a great TF. He led interesting discussions and gave very useful essay comments. Your experience in this tutorial probably depends on how interesting you find the specific subject it discusses, so definitely choose the tutorial with the topic that appeals to you most.
Phil 97 depends great on who your TF is and how they create their course. If you want a course that emphasizes discussion then look for sections which emphasize that. If you want a course that emphasizes writing (which you should) then look for courses that make you at least weekly so that your thoughts can be brought into focus for discussion.
This tutorial exposed me to problems I might not have otherwise explored, and with James' guidance, I became a better philosophy student in the process.
If you're looking for a really intimate setting in which to discuss philosophy, this class is for you! You'll be writing and reading quite a bit, but it's definitely a class worthwhile to take.  One of the best parts is the small class size (7/8 people), and the really detailed feedback you get on all your papers.
Well-designed class. Most of the material is very engaging, although papers are tough and discussions are sometimes difficult to get into.
Phil 97, a tutorial, was a great class. The small setting made for great discussion where everyone could participate and you heard many different arguments. The readings were generally interesting and I enjoyed how many authors mentioned each other, such that some sort of dialogue was seen. The focus on a specific topic worked very well, and I believe I came out of this course with a much better understanding of free speech and its use in argumentation.
Don't be afraid to get to know your classmates really early !
Professor Nickel is incredibly sharp and a very talented teacher. The Problems of Philosophy, by Bertrand Russell, was the main source of readings and an altogether fascinating book. Assignments really honed in on your ability to write a philosophical paper, but could be abstract and challenging (grading was also fairly stringent).The two hours once a week in a windowless room with a challenging and abstract subject could make it difficult to fully engage with the material (during any given class, at least a couple students struggled to stay engaged the entire time, which in a small (7-10 person) setting can be difficult). However, with proper engagement the class was enlightening and fulfilling.
If you are interested in the contributions and limitations of free speech, definitely take this course!
The topic (discrimination) is fascinating. The readings are interesting and are a nice variety. The reading and writing each week was manageable. The feedback we receive on our writing is solid. Ronni is amazing. The class was especially enjoyable because very intelligent, very thoughtful, very funny people participated in the discussion every week. This is what I think a tutorial should be.
I think that the Russell text was very interesting , and so were our class discussion. Prof nickel is also very responsive to emails, and very understanding with deadlines and offering extra help on assignments even after the deadline. The reason I marked recommend with reservations is that Prof. Nickel can sometimes be a bit difficult to work with, and I often honestly felt personally antagonized by him, which honestly may have been a product of how busy I was and also how busy I was, but I went to meetings feeling uncomfortable and anxious and not excited.
Free speech is an interesting subject worthy of the serious philosophical consideration this course provides. This course provides both liberal and conservative views of free speech.
Amazing experience! Ronni really knows how to run a great tutorial :)
Ronni is a great teacher. She finds positive things in everything and is very willing to listen to students about how they learn best. The topic discrimination is inherently very interesting and class discussions were always engaging because everyone has an opinion about discrimination.
I really enjoyed my tutorial! You'll look forward to it, I'm sure!
You get some incredibly quality feedback on your writing, build up a rapport with both your fellow students and Ronni, and I honestly felt that I grew quite a bit as a writer and as a person from this course. Would highly, highly, highly, recommend!
This is an amazing class! If it is offered again, take it! Diana is a fantastic instructor; the materials were all great, the environment was very supportive and friendly, and your philosophy writing will improve tons. It was a good amount of work week to week, but I always felt that the work had a purpose, and that it was helping my critical thinking and writing skills. I wish I could take this class again!
