By all means shop this course--if it is run differently, i.e., has a different professor...I am sorry Professor Levey, I think that all people have good intentions, and that you must have tried to structure the course well, but it just didn't work...
This is a good introduction to one of philosophy's "rockstars" (Descartes) and some of the lesser known "opening bands" (Spinoza and Leibniz).  Actually all of them were extremely interesting, and relatively speaking they were all rockstars in their own right.
It is boring and poorly taught, and does not compare at all to most departmental philosophy classes, which are generally of a much higher caliber.
Caution: it is sometimes hard to tell how to approach Rationalist arguments, which incidentally is what the class is all about.
Take it when Alison Simmons teaches it.
This is a great history of philosophy class. Take it!
Take it.
If the rationalists are interesting this is the class for you, and how could you not be interesting these rationalists.
Though there are no prerequisites, I would strongly recommend having read some philosophical works previous to taking the course, and having written philosophical essays, otherwise the class is a lot of work. The class really does give a great overview of the three rationalists in considerable depth for the time permitted and will cover a lot of material.
The class is interesting, but hard! In retrospect, I shouldn't have taken it. I already knew some of the subject material, and the stress caused by papers in this class was pretty rough. Professor McDonough is a great teacher though!
Great professor, great material, just don't fall behind and you'll do well.
This class was a really excellent experience.  Prof. McDonough is incredibly talented at relating fairly complex philosophical debates in simple terms.  I had never taken a philosophy class before and was able to grasp the material and participate fully.  My peers who were philosophy students seemed equally pleased.
The philosophers are absolutely fascinating, McDonough runs a great class, and the workload is more than reasonable if you're juggling other projects. Take it! You'll look forward to going.
This class is a great way to engage with some good metaphysics and epistemology. Professor McDonough facilitates conversation well, and the course ends up feeling like more of a discussion section every meeting than a lecture. He also does a great job of making the material accessible to people of all academic backgrounds.
May not be the best course for graduate students. Because it was a survey course, the treatment felt somewhat superficial at times, but that's just the nature of the course.
This class is wonderful. Metaphysics, particularly early modern metaphysics, is fascinating in general, and the positions of the rationalists are most interesting. Professor McDonough is an excellent professor. He's accessible to students and his lectures are good.
