This class is exactly what it is: a history of modern moral philosophy. You'll come away conversant in a lot of the schools of thought of how morality has been conceived of and you'll have a broader analytic framework to think about morality yourself. Don't let the short list of assignments fool you into thinking that this class is easy, but if you are comfortable writing philosophy papers and have an interest in the subject matter I would recommend it. Korsgaard also gives great handouts at lecture that make the material more digestible.
If you want to learn about moral philosophy at Harvard, this is the course to start with.
This is a very challenging but rewarding course.
The reading list is great, definitely a very worthwhile course to take. Everyone should read this stuff at some point: these are some of the most brilliant moral thinkers of their time.Advice for students taking the course:- Don't attend the lectures: they're not that interesting and (no matter how excited you are about the course) very difficult to stay focused on, given her monotone voice. Most of the students are either asleep or fooling around on their computers.- Often she'll simply read straight from her book, The Sources of Normativity, which is assigned as an optional reading but is really a must-have.- The lecture notes are also pretty good. You can glean what you want from them without attending lectures.
This is one of the best courses I have ever taken at Harvard. If you have ANY interest in moral philosophy, and some exposure to the material (i.e. you have already taken Justice or some kind of ethical reasoning class), this course is a most! Christine Korsgaard is one of the best and brightest in her field, don't pass up the opportunity to take a course with her! She is the best lecturer I have ever encountered. AND she has style!
This is a fantastic course for anyone with some knowledge of ethics who wants to know how moral philosophy became what it is today. It is a great class to satisfy the philosophy ethics requirement with, but also would be a worthwhile elective for anybody seriously interested in ethical philosophy.
Awesome course. Korsagaard is a genius in moral philosophy, and it shows. She is also extremely accessible. The philosophy covered is interesting, varied, and covered in depth. I would not recommend this course to someone new to philosophy, however.
This is a fantastic course that has changed the way I think about being a good person. That said, this course is only worth taking if you do the reading - and I felt that many people this year were not doing the reading, which dragged down the quality of all our sections.
This class gives you a great view of the big issues in modern moral philosophy, and you'll get to read some great thinkers. However, the lectures can be boring at times, as you get fairly extensive lecture notes beforehand and Prof. Korsgaard's lecture style is to read them with some elaboration. That may be for you or it may not be. Section, though, is a lot of fun, as you have the freedom to discuss these big issues with your peers.
Korsgaard is a fantastic lecturer, really knows her stuff, especially given that she is one of the leading moral philosophers of our era.  You will learn a lot about the historical debate regarding moral philosophy.
This course is rather difficult, but very worth your while if you want to know what all the fuss about internalism is really about.
This is an excellent course, which I would recommend with enthusiasm to anyone interested in the subject matter. I took it to fulfill a gen ed requirement and as a first philosophy course and had a great experience. I would warn prospective students without prior philosophy experience that they should be prepared to learn the writing style, but beyond that, no particular background is necessary. Prof Korsgaard's lectures sometimes assume a general phil background, but rarely anything that a bit of time on Wikipedia couldn't get you up to speed on.
Excellent introduction to various theories of moral obligation. The course staff are very welcoming. Essay topics are pedagogically excellent, and the work is not graded harshly.
This class is simply an amazing course that everyone should take! It is a very rigorous class that requires a lot of time and effort, but it will pay off. Korsgaard is an amazingly complex philosopher but will guide you through some very tricky concepts. That being said, it is a difficult class and it is NOT an introductory philosophy class. Do not take this as your first philosophy class, or if you have only taken Social Studies 10 thinking that you can pull off all upper-level philosophy classes. BUT, if you are up for the challenge, this is probably the most worthwhile class in my Harvard career.
This class is an excellent way to be introduced to some major moral philosophers.  The works you read should basically be required reading for any college student, but they are also incredibly difficult to get through without guidance, and this class provides that.  Korsgaard is a fantastic lecturer with a gift for making these philosophers accessible, and Paul is a great TF who is always willing to put in extra time to help out his students.  Take the class for moral reasoning! It's not the easiest way to fill the requirement, but it is fair and definitely worth it.
If you like moral philosophy, this course is great. It introduces some of the topics that philosophers still discuss nowadays and puts many great thinkers (e.g Hobbes, Hume) in discussion with each other.
This course gives an excellent overview of modern moral philosophy, illuminating some still crucial issues by showing their historical roots.
A good course. If you have an interest in ethics, you should know the origins of the theories that are disputed today. And there is probably no one better than Koorsgaard to learn it from.
The material is interesting. I never did the readings unless it was for a paper and still got good grades. It all depends on your style. The lectures can be very boring though.
The only reason for taking this course is to witness one of the best moral theorists in the field in her element. Above and beyond that, the pace is unrelenting and there is too much informartion in one lecture. The papers tend not have a clear focus and the section was meager at best. Take this course in a  few years when it is more refined.
This is a brilliant class, but be prepared to stay on your toes. Lectures can be frightening affairs - complex information will be thrown at you at a machine-gun rate, and it is up to you to take up. Prof. Korsgaard is completely brilliant, but she takes no prisoners. This course was like the Light Brigade - fast, and with heavy casualties. If you can hack it though, you will learn an astonishing amount.
The readings are difficult, and often the English writers are harder because of the archaic prose. Take advantage of the lectures, as Prof Korsgaard isolates many of the key problems and arguments running through the texts. The lectures are also incredibly intricate, so come to class ready to write.
This course's readings are structured to afford both a rigorous and historical analysis of essential texts in moral philosophy since early natural law theory.  The course offers an impressive breadth of exposure to ethical theory without sacrificing either depth or precision.  Altogether, it allows students to evaluate the origin and development of primary ethical concepts, including obligation, reason, law, moral motivation, approval and disapproval, sympathy, and utility among others.
A great class!
I found this course pretty difficult.  I'd recommend this course only to those genuinely interested in the topic.
Ethics is not interesting, and the ethics studied in this class is the least interesting type of ethics there is. Just consider that.
You will gain a deep understanding of the assumptions made by modern moral theories, and their intellectual heritage.
This class is quite challenging, but also does its students the justice of being treated as adults intellectually. It provides a good education in how to think lucidly.
