Not for the faint of heart. This is best suited for people with pre-existing interests in computability theorem and symbolic logic. The material is though-provoking and beautiful (absolutely beautiful) but difficult. Put simply, the material doesn't make sense if you're not willing to put in the time to figure it out.
The paragon of erudition, the pinnacle of the liberal arts.
Be prepared to work hard
This is one of the greatest classes I have ever taken at this school.  But I can't prove it.
One of the best classes at Harvard.
A very difficult class if you do not have experience with mathematical logic.
This class covers amazing material, and the lectures are fascinating, and the experience is extremely rewarding; but be prepared to work very hard. If you are a humanities person considering this course (like me), take it but take it pass-fail, and expect to spend hours on it anyway. Be warned, the difficulty of the material and of the problem sets ramps up significantly and with no warning about two-thirds of the way through the course.
I could say many things about this class, but I will be brief. The cost of taking this class is high: the material is quite challenging. It is technically rigorous, and rather obscure, so even those with a background in math and CS have some trouble (at least, this is what I observed via study groups). There isn't any background knowledge required, but expect to work hard. I would recommend having a prior interest in the material to get you through it.The pay-off, however, is enormously high. I can safely say this is the best class I have taken at Harvard. It teaches you to think quite rigorously, and rather cleverly as well. It is peppered throughout with philosophical asides from Professor Goldfarb, whom, I might add, is the best lecturer I have had at Harvard as well.
Be ready to be nitpicky! And be unafraid to ask questions when you have even little doubts.
This course is so different from anything you have taken before, it is either going to be the best course you have ever taken at Harvard or a tremendous source of frustration.
You must like math.
Do not take this class unless you are prepared to work harvard, or have extensive proof-based math experience. Make sure you utilize office hours and all other external resources. Wiki is very very helpful
You can teach yourself this material from the textbook, but if you need extra examples section is indispensable and class may be necessary as well.  Also, Professor Goldfarb is a great presence and includes more and more anecdotes as the term goes on.
This is some seriously cool shit.
Absolutely intellectually satisfying.  Also unbelievably frustrating.
Take this class if you want to test what your brain is capable of computing.
Excellent class! Prepare to change your ways of thinking.
Amazing class, amazing professor with very well-written lecture notes. A must take.
Perhaps the most interesting course I've ever taken. Take this course if you are at all interested in philosophy of mathematics, but beware that the problem sets can be quite difficult.
The material is fascinating, if not obscure and difficult. The lectures are straightforward and effective. Goldfarb clearly loves this material and it helps generate enthusiasm amongst the students. The quality of the students in this course is also a huge strength because they get to know each other quite well by collaborating on problem sets.This is one of those quintessential Harvard courses: it's very difficult but you will feel like you have learned a great deal by the end of it.
It's a commitment. The material is great, and for philosophy students, a good change of pace from writing papers, but the problem sets are challenging.
In the end, you will not succeed in apprehending truth-with-a-capital-tee. But, Professor Goldfarb (who is a brilliant logician and arguably the best lecturer at Harvard) will bring you pretty damn close.
Gdel's Incompleteness Theorems are probably the most fascinating things I have ever studied, and I highly doubt there is a clearer, more thoughtful presentation of this material anywhere outside of Professor Goldfarb's class. If that weren't enough to draw one in, his teaching style is inimitable - a wonderful combination of humor and the history of philosophy, often related through first-hand experiences with relevant philosophers and logicians. Make no mistake - this course is very challenging, but it is more than worth it. Where else will you find an opportunity like this?
This is the best class that I have taken at Harvard.
This course is extremely difficult. You will redefine your notion of mastering a subject after reading the notes for the fourth or fifth time and still wondering whether or not you understand all the nuance being discussed.
This class is certainly not for everyone; it requires a lot of analytically-oriented, mathematical thinking, and as such would not be at all a pleasant experience for someone who is not interested by such things. Yet, for anyone who has an interest in logic, especially logic as it relates to the foundations of math, I would definitely encourage them to take this course. The material covered, from Godel's Theorems to Tarski's work to computability, is all extremely intriguing, both in a mathematical and a philosophical sense.
This course has undoubtedly been one of the best I've taken at Harvard.  It is incredibly challenging, but structured in such a way that the work is rewarding and well worth it.
If you care what Godel's theorem is, and have a strong mathematical background, it's wonderful.  If not, for god's sake don't.
The best course I've taken at Harvard: intellectually challenging, absolutely inapplicable, obscure and yet beautiful! Quintessentially liberal arts?
The class is really good for those and only for those, who (1) are interested in mathematical logic; and (2) have strong background in math; or (2') are so interested in mathematical logic that they will be ready to spend a lot of time on this class.
This class will make you smarter, and will change your perspectives on the mathematical and computational worlds. Moreover, each lecture is riveting. The course notes are excellent.
This class one of those classes that make Harvard Harvard. I unequivocally recommend it.
Genius proofs, but very disturbing results.
Please take this class if you are at all interesting in mathematics from a philosophical perspective. The material is just amazing, the teaching is great and taking the class is a lot of fun.
Already have. I think you have a few more philosophers, my computer science roomate and an english concentrator keen if you are doing it next year.
prepare to work hard
You should be very interested with logic before taking this course.
This class is amazing!!! You should definitely take it! The material is absolutely fascinating. The problem sets aren't too bad, and are rather fun to do. Goldfarb is a great professor; he's friendly, approachable, easy to learn from, and absolutely brilliant.
Take this class!  This course is incredibly thought-provoking and presents some of the most interesting mathematical results of the 20th century.   Professor Goldfarb is a great lecturer, and the material is interesting from beginning to end.
This is an awesome class.  The materials is really interesting and it really teaches you to think in a different way.  Professor Goldfarb seems to really like teaching the class and therefore he is fun to listen to.I highly highly recommend taking this course, but with one caveat.  You have to be pretty stinkin good at thinking.  This is one of the hardest courses I've taken at Harvard (for me, it was about as hard as physics 16) and if you can't handle serious abstract-ness, this class will knock you out(even with all the help that Professor Goldfarb and the TF will so graciously give you lots of).
I feel smarter now. This class teaches about logic and Godel's Incompleteness Theorems (also goes into computability theory). The material is very difficult to understand but lecture notes and sections are useful. I better understand the concept of truth now, but to be honest, there wasn't much philosophy.
This class will make you smarter. You'll actually understand Godel's Incompleteness Theorems, which are among the most beautiful results in mathematics and logic. The material gets a little obscure near the end of the course, but it's worth it just for the first three quarters. This is (contrary to what CS50 claims), the truly quintessential Harvard course. Impressing your friends by handling sentences like "this sentence is false" with no problem is cool too.
Goldfarb is really, really great. The class was perfectly paced, the course material was really interesting, and the lectures were entertaining, too. It was my favorite class this semester. However, one should be aware that the class is almost entirely math and hardly any philosophy (4 lectures on philosophy). For prereqs, one should either take EMR 17 or (better) have a solid background in proof-based mathematics.
Take this class! It's difficult, but really fun and satisfying. This is a worthwhile elective for anyone in a quantitative concentration just because it is so cool to prove things about what you can and cannot prove in different formal systems. Some of the homework problems ask you to prove things you knew in kindergarden, but they still won't be simple. You will also see some very counterintuitive results. Goldfarb's lectures are entertaining, and his course text is a valuable reference.
Phil 144 is pretty much a math class, perhaps a bit easier than your average 100's math class. At the same time, the work required to understand some of these abstract notions is certainly mind-expanding, and you'll walk out of this course with a solid understanding of Godel's Incompleteness Theorems actually say.
I generally do not invest much time in commenting on the Q guide, but I feel this course deserves some extra effort. First, a comment about the peers taking this course. Most are strong CS and Math students (a few coming from courses like Math 55). That said, you definitely do NOT need to be a math extraordinaire to take this class. I am a student in biology on the premed track with comparatively little experience in math and cs (Math 21 series + 2 CS classes). I didn't feel adequately prepared to do much proofs in math before entering this class. That said, Warren Goldfarb is excellent at preparing you to do proofs. I genuinely feel like I can think through a problem and come up with ways to attack it and prove/disprove it, which I think is a valuable skill for any math/cs student. Now a note on the content of the course. I think one of the Q guide comments from a previous year says it best: "This is some seriously cool shit." You are taken on a journey to understand how mathematical systems work and how they are constructed. One of the main focuses of the course is Godel's Incompleteness Theorems, which are amazing. You learn the limitations of mathematical systems and why they can't  mirror all truths. And you learn a great introduction to set theory and the theory of computability. Finally, a quick statement about the homework assignments and time commitment. Homework is roughly 5 to 6 problems most weeks and can be done in a couple hours given that you work in a good group. They are just the right degree of difficulty. Our year, we had a take-home midterm, a take-home final, and an in-class final. All of these evaluations were relatively stress-free. I do wish that there were some practice problems available for the in-class final, but otherwise, no complaints. Unfortunately this class is not offered next year, but definitely consider this class if you can. The experience is likely worth it even if you're not concentrating in philosophy, math, or cs.
The course material was really interesting and Professor Goldfarb is a fantastic lecturer.  I'm a math major, and felt that this course gave me some perspective on the formal systems that I use and take for granted.However, there were some problems with how the course was run.  We were told about an "end of term midterm" about 4 weeks until the end of term, and had this take-home midterm during reading period, as well as having a 3 hour final exam.  Hopefully the course staff now understands how problematic it was to introduce this exam to the course schedule so late in the term.
This course is a beautiful tour through the most powerful and interesting results in modern logic.
Treat this as a HIGH LEVEL MATH COURSE.  Philosophy of math is essentially math.  Only three lectures at the very end covered philosophy, and students were explicitly made not responsible for the information in those lectures.  You need either a background in advanced proof-based math or computer science to take this course.  I had neither, and it was the most trying academic experience of my life.
Probably the only course that treats on this sort of material. Difficult but if you're interested, essential.
Be ready for some work and only take it if you really find the material interesting
Lets make things clear: This is not a philosophy course; this is, from start to finish, a logic course. Proof: 9 problem sets; 0 papers. The sole philosophical implication of the course is this: in any coherent system, there are some statements that are neither provable nor refutable. Yes, its awesome, but if youre considering this course you probably already knew that. Now, if youre interested in proving said statement (and many other things about logical systems) then this is the course for you. Admittedly, the proof of Godels theorem is pretty sweet, but overall this class is nowhere near as cool as it is pedantic. The notes were dense, the lectures, arcane, the TA, confused, the material, impractical, the p-sets, long, and the tests, difficult. After all that effort I found myself asking if it was worth it. Its definitely possible to reap a lot out this class, as Professor Goldfarb is brilliant, and the refined packet of online notes makes the course more navigable. But please, think long and hard before taking this class, because you will be working long and hard if you do.
This class is 90% logic and 10% philosophy. You will learn everything you want to know about Gdel's incompleteness theorems (and perhaps more than you want to know about recursively enumerable sets) but if you take this for the "& Philosophy" you may feel a little gypped.
This class isn't easy. It also is much more pedantic material than the course description would suggest. Prof. Goldfarb is the best person to teach this class. It's a well-oiled machine, and when you come out of it, you will understand what the course teaches you, despite bumps you might encounter along the way.
The material is mind blowing. It is theoretical thought at its most abstract and strange. It pushed back the boundaries of what I thought possible with logic. Take it! It is fairly difficult though. It starts off easy, but there will soon be a bit of work to do if you want to keep up. The material is highly counter intuitive, so you need to develop a different intuition for it.Also: Oh no it's the last time Goldfarb is teaching this class! Who knows, the next teacher might be amazing too; but you should shop to make sure you'll understand the lecturer presenting this confusing topic.Overall: take this class (if you have a bit of a background in logic or proof based math that is). It will expand your horizons and make you smarter, teach you how to think, show you strange things about pure logic.
Take this course. Let me repeat: take this course. Professor Goldfarb is one of the best professors I've had here at Harvard. The material occupies a difficult liminal space between philosophy and mathematics, but, in spite of the difficulty, you won't regret having taken on the challenge. A lot of the assessment in this course will make use of your mathematical abilities more than your philosophical reasoning skills, but, at the end of the day, those things aren't so different anyway. Professor Goldfarb is wonderfully engaged with his students, and it would be a mistake not to learn about Gdel from him.
I came into this class from EMR 17, which, while very enjoyable for me, was one of the easiest classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Goldfarb said that EMR 17 was more than sufficient preparation for the class, yet I almost immediately felt behind. This class is difficult. The workload is manageable, but it will force you to think harder and more independently than you would in most classes. David is a great resource as the TF for working through problem sets, but if you don't really understand the material and feel comfortable coming up with your own proofs it will come back to haunt you on the exams. This is a great class for anyone interested in the fundamentals of mathematics and deductive reasoning, but it expects a lot from you. It has been intellectually the most challenging and most rewarding class I've taken in my first year at Harvard.
This is one of my favorite classes I have taken in the philosophy department. Be forewarned, Professor Goldfarb's treatment of Godel's theorem is incredibly rigorous. Although the class is called "Logic and Philosophy," there is little philosophical material treated in the class. The class is better suited for those more interested in the mathematical content, those interested in the philosophical implications of the material will likely find the mathematical content somewhat pedantic. Additionally, I found that the course ramps up the pace significantly right around spring break.
This is a hard class even if you have taken EMR 17 or PHIL 140!! One needs to know how mathematical proofs work in general. You don't learn that in EMR 17 or PHIL 140. So for prep you need at least 2 proof based math courses e.g. Math 101, Math 112 or Math 121. And, I highly recommend taking Math 141 first!
I always wanted to have a deeper understanding of Godel's theorems, and this class really showed me the beauty of logic and the nuances of derivability and truth. You learn bizarre facts, such as the fact that adding an axiom to arithmetic that says arithmetic is inconsistent will actually result in a consistent system if and only if arithmetic is consistent. More importantly, you gain a deeper understanding of provability.
Overall a good course--and a nice break from the typical high-powered sorts of things done in the math department.
I would counsel anyone who is interested in metamathematics to take this course under the condition that they have had intimate engagement with logic (at the very least, they should be able to work naturally with first-order logic) and math (some basic set theory will do). If they don't fulfill this condition, I would probably recommend against taking it until they do. I would especially recommend taking Goldfarb's 140 before this course, since that would be an excellent primer, whereas my undergrad logic training was lacking in some crucial areas.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Goldfarb is a fantastic, clear lecturer and his book is great! Definitely recommend!
If you're at all interested in metamath or logic (esp if you've taken a bunch of math classes) this is a rigorous and thus, awesome, introduction to Godel's theorems and beyond. The psets aren't terrible but they're challenging enough. Prof Goldfarb is a truly great lecturer and you will love hearing his anecdotes about mathematicians/logicians
This is a great course!!! The TF is awesome, the professor is awesome, the classmates are awesome!!! Everybody is so incredibly passionate about the class
take it
Godel's Incompleteness Theorems are great but we spend very little time talking about why. Problem sets require difficult proofs, so make sure to pay attention in lecture and section, and go to office hours!
This is a gem of a course. Prof. Goldfarb is a fantastic lecturer, the problem sets (and exam problems) are very interesting, and the TF (David Thorstad) was extremely helpful. Definitely take this course if you are interested in logic.
This course does an excellent job of introducing the philosophy of mathematics and logic, and is taught extremely well. Not only is the material exceptionally beautiful, but Professor Goldfarb's presentation of it is also great. Additionally, David does a great job organizing sections, producing handouts for the course, and providing excellent guidance and feedback regarding the psets.
