A thrilling roller coaster ride through the theories attempting to make sense of Quantum Mechanics. Ned is a fantastic, brilliant, passionate prof who has fun with the material -- its infectious! Also, if you take this course reread everything at LEAST three times. It will make sense the more you can dwell on the ideas - I promise.
Take this course if you don't know much about quantum mechanics and are interested in philosophy of science; or if you merely satisfy the latter, and are willing to wait for the philosophical heart that follows the introductory material.
this course was an an amazing introduction to quantum mechanical theory and totally approachable for someone with no background in either philosophy or QM. sections are some of the most intellectually stimulating times you will have at college. do the readings so you can contribute to the discussion!
Best class I've EVER taken at Harvard! DO take it, even pass-fail if you must, but it is such interesting material, such engaging teaching, that even though the class took up a large portion of my time, doing the readings and figuring out the problems were enjoyable even with their complexity. You get to tackle some of the most interesting philosophical questions from a number of fields through one of the most puzzling case studies available.
Great class, great professor. Difficult but really engaging, and everyone who takes the class is really into it. I never had a section before this class where the next class had to kick us out because everyone was caught up in discussion 10 minutes past when section was supposed to end.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. It has an incredibly dedicated and talented professor (there are COOKIES for every class!), but it really stands about because so many of the students are passionate about the material. In most Harvard classes, starting an intellectual discussion is like pulling teeth. But here, I got the sense that everyone really wanted to be there an was genuinely curious about the material. This makes for an *awesome* atmosphere that's great even if you couldn't care less about quantum mechanics.
This is really interesting subject matter, but the structure of the class is flawed. Also, I don't recommend this class to anyone who isn't very interested in the subject matter, since it can get pretty technical and it involves a lot of work.
It is more important to understand how to write philosophically than to have a physics background.
This course is challenging, but also very rewarding. The focus of the course if fairly narrow, but you also get to address some pretty big ideas in course of examination, like the nature of scientific inquiry and theory selection.
Only take this course if you're interested in the mysteries of quantum mechanics. If you don't find that stuff interesting, you'll hate the class; if you find it intriguing, you'll be delighted.
This class was amazing. Prof. Ned is excellent, witty, astute, and the meanest baker around. A great mix of philosophy of science and metaphysics in the context of a fascinating topic. A gem of a class at Harvard? Most definitely. Science majors would really enjoy this class.
Questions about the fundamental structure of the universe and how we go about analyzing it using science should be of interest to everyone, and this course covers those questions with depth and intelligence. Ned Hall is also a fantastic teacher; when he explains something I understand it far more fully and far more quickly than I do when I just read about something. He really supplements the readings well. Basically, learning about quantum mechanics is really cool, and learning about it through a philosophy coursegiven the problems it raisesseems like the right way to go.
This is an excellent course, it does a really good job of making quantum mechanics accessible and bringing out philosophical implications. Some background in both science and philosophy is helpful.
Take this course and dive into the subject matter. Hall is very interesting to talk to and leads a very awesome class. And he makes cookies every morning.
Phil 151 is a great class, particularly if you are interested in philosophy of science or took QM and didn't feel like it got even close to adequately explaining how our world works. I took this class after having taken phys. 143a and 3 philosophy classes. As someone interested in philosophy who spends most of his time on the more quantitative side of Harvard, this class was extremely interesting. If you are in the same boat, I would recommend very strongly that you take this class. You'll likely love Ned, who is an amazing teacher. If you're strictly a math/science type, there's a chance you'll find the class a little fluffy, and if you're strictly a philosophy person, you might find the class too mathy.As far as the workload goes, I think that the class is pretty manageable as long as you space out the assignments rather than doing them the night before.
This class was really awesome- definitely take it. I just took it for fun and had a fantastic time. Ned and Kate are both great, and the material you learn is really interesting. I walked away from this class with a great understanding of introductory quantum mechanics (with no background in it at all). Take it!
I was expecting a philosophy course that took quantum mechanics as its case study; instead, this was very much a quantum mechanics course that employed philosophical methods. That said, Ned is one of the best teachers I have ever had.
This is a great class. The number of assignments and things to do may seem overwhelming at first, but it was definitely one of the most manageable classes I've taken here. Most weeks were no more than 6 or 7 hours of work outside class, which really hit a sweet spot. I felt like I was engaging with the material in a deeply intellectual manner, but I never felt like it was too much. None of the assignments seemed overly tedious and the material is absolutely awesome. Quintessential Harvard class. Absolutely recommend with enthusiasm, particularly if you're interested in quantum mechanics on a philosophical level.
Take this course if you are somewhat comfortable with philosophy. It is definitely a great course for an introduction to quantum mechanics (although there are a lot of students who have vast stores of knowledge on the topic and can understand and engage with the material on another level). Take it for Ned's cookies. But don't take it as a class that will allow you to satisfy your math itch. You will be doing very minimal amounts of math and maximal amounts of writing--philosophy writing. If you don't know much philosophy, do know lots of QM (i.e. have taken a QM course) or you will get more pain than gain, most of the time (there are times where you will be very happy you took the class). This is definitely a hard course and takes up time, requiring serious effort. But know that the course staff (i.e. Ned and Kate) are amazing people who really care about you and will help you learn. Ned will explain things as many times as you need and he is one of the few professors at Harvard who genuinely believes in your intellectual abilities and treats your comments/observations as a valid insights instead of writing them off as an amateur comments right away.
First of all, how awesome is it to say you're taking Philosophy of Quantum mechanics? Basically the two most mind-bending human intellectual pursuits--philosophy and physics--all blended into one and served up by Ned, a dynamic, engaging, cookie-baking Professor, and Kate, an understated but kind and helpful TF. The course is not easy, but it does not feel like pulling teeth--rather, it feels more like excavating to figure out exactly what is going on with the teeth without actually causing any bodily harm. I'm stretching that analogy terribly, but you get the point I hope. If you have any interest in thinking about what is fundamental in our world, take this course. If you are skeptical about the value of philosophy given the rapid progress of science, take this course. If you know oodles of physics, take this course (but be warned, you may be asked to speak on behalf of your more reticent scientist kin at times!). If you don't find anything I've written compelling, and just like to churn out probabilities and experimental results and call it a night, then perhaps this course isn't right.
This is a wonderful class and Ned is great! A must-take for sure!
Take this class! Although it does not count for anything but philosophy requirements (if you're a concentrator), you'll be glad you did especially if you're interested in philosophy or physics. It was worth while despite the fact that the class was at 9am MWF this semester and attendance was taken. Unlike other philosophy courses, this one is both a) slightly bigger (~30 people) b) more interesting because it involves less semantic arguments and c) places an interesting group of people with different technical backgrounds on the same playing field so to speak. Don't be afraid of the math either, if you can do basic algebra, you'll be able to handle it fine. Ned is an awesome professor and cool to talk to during office hours.
This was easily one of my favorite courses at Harvard.  The material is often unintuitive and very challenging, but working with it will reward you in spades.  Spending time with Ned in office hours and after class is a MUST:  if you do not do this, you are missing out on half of the course.  Don't be intimidated by the math, nor by the philosophy.  The class is designed to build a foundational facility with both, and, as such, doing the work will reward you tremendously.  Take this course if you are interested in rigorously asking questions and getting answers about the fundamental nature of our world, reailty, and the universe.
This class is incredible! If you're interested in knowing what the world is made of, and what that means for us, take it. Ned is great, Kate is great, everything's great. Great class.
Take this class! This class is the definition of liberal arts and what Harvard should be. Ned is absolutely amazing and such an inspiring professor. The material  was fascinating and challenged the way I think about the world 3 times a week. I will spend a lot of time thinking about the micro world and how it connect to our every day physical universe. This is definitely one of the most memorable classes I've taken!
This class is wonderful. Please take it.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Philosophers, don't be scared of studying quantum mechanics. Scientists, don't worry about the philosophy part. Take this course.
This class is exactly as awesome as it sounds. Ned is an amazing lecturer who's enthusiasm for the material is contagious. Expect it to be a good deal of work, and some of the readings are quite dense even, but you get out far more than you put in. Definitely recommended for physics concentrators interested in what quantum mechanics implies about reality, but should be an enjoyable experience for anyone else too.
It's a lot of fun to delve into this confusion of philosophy and science intersecting in quantum mechanics. It's cool to have 9 AM class with homemade cookies with super enthusiastic classmates and an awesomely chill and smart professor. Be warned that the interdiscplinary nature of the course means the philosophy people will feel lost in the math, the sciencey people frustrated by the crude distilling of the math, and the assumption that you know what the word ontological means. I almost enjoyed the class more as a chance to think hard about the underlying assumptions scientists have in thinking about the world than actually learning about quantum mechanics.
Really, really great class... if you're interested in quantum mechanics and don't want to take a math- and physics-heavy version, this is the perfect class. The readings were interesting and Ned was a fantastic professor. It took too long to derive some of the physics results (Born statistics, Bell inequalities), but the philosophical questions we explored changed the way I thought about physics.
You absolutely must take this class!! Ned is an absolutely wonderful professor and the engagement he has with his students and material definitely make the 9am three days a week worth it!
There are five main reasons NOT to take this class, listed here in order of validity:1. It conflicts with another required class2.  You hate not knowing definite answers3. Math scares you more than death4. Neither Quantum Mechanics nor philosophy of Science are interesting to you (who are you?)5. You hate comedy and cookies (go see a doctor)
Ned is the most effective teacher I have had at Harvard.  This class is incredibly engaging and fulfilling.  The readings and topics and very interesting.  Take it to experience the awesomeness of Ned.
This course is difficult, but it is the kind of difficulty which really pays off. Ned is an amazing lecturer, he will change the way you think a course should be run. This class will tune you in to some of the strangest, most puzzling open questions in physics. In doing so, it will likely change how you think about science as a whole, and how you understand the universe you live in. This course is honestly awesome, but you have to be willing to put in some effort to get the most out of it! The assignments and exams were all very fair and the reading load is more than manageable. Definitely take this course if you have the opportunity/are interested in science/puzzling metaphysical paradoxes!
This course is a lot of fun, though not super rigorous. It is a nice overview of interpretations of QM and of the purpose of science more broadly.
Enjoy it!
this ought to be a highish level philosophy class. but that really depends on who takes it.
The best and most fun professor!
Probably one of the best classes I have taken so far at Harvard. Literally mind-blowing.
epistepheliacs!! get reading to have your mind hurt in the way you like most!
Every science concentrator should be forced to take some class like this (but also anybody who likes logical thinking will enjoy the course)!
it's worth thinking about why we trust science; this class breaks science down a bit, showing what it's comprised of.
I thought this would be a great class, I love Ned, but it turned out horribly. Maybe you need to invest 100% in it and you'll get a lot out of it, but I doubt most people are here to do that.  Things were really scattered and unrelated and not planned ahead. I often felt like I was swimming in a) non-understanding b) too many assignments at once.
This is a great course! It really gets you to think long and hard about the mysteries of quantum mechanics. If you took quantum mechanics but were never satisfied with the explanations they gave, you should take this course. Conversely, if you know nothing about quantum physics but are interested in philosophy, this is still an excellent philosophy course.
This is amazing class for anyone interested in QM and philosophy. But don't be fooled, while you don't need any background going into this class, you need to be able to handle the math and perform philosophical arguments to do well in this class. While the course avoids unnecessary math calculations, it is not cursory. Neither the philosophy nor physics portion of the class is dumbed down. It is hands down one of the best classes at Harvard.
This is probably the best introduction to Quantum Mechanics you can possibly have. There were quite a few Physics majors in my class and I was surprised to notice that they really had no *conceptual* understanding of all the math that they had learnt (and learnt reall well, no doubt) in their Physics Quantum Mechanics class. This course would help you make sense of what really goes on behind all that math.Don't get freaked out thinking you would have to do a lot of math. There is one linear algebra worksheet which is much easier that it looks like. DON'T decide against the course because of the math. Reading is not much but you should read everything at least twice. I suggest from experience that you read relevant chapters *before* the lectures. I also suggest you make friends right in the beginning because all assignments and final should be done in collaboration (you don't have to but it would help massively). As for grading, Ned is a very fair grader so he would make things easier for you. And, yes, Ned is the *best* instructor you can ever have, as a person and as a lecturer (his lectures are crystal clear!). In general, it is a good idea to take whatever Ned offers every semester especially if you are Philosophy major.
BEST CLASS EVER
This course is a great introduction to the philosophical difficulties of quantum mechanics, but it is aimed at non-physicists.  As a physics concentrator, I was rather bored during the first half of the course and was disappointed by the quality of conversations in section.
It's a great outlet for working through existential anxieties, especially for physics students who were unsatisfied by the treatment in traditional physics courses of questions related to wave collapse. Ned Hall is awesome and so are Zeynep and Damian. Great class to take pass/fail and just dive into the questions without worrying about the grades. Bear in mind that the class is a mix of philosophy and science students and therefore in some cases we can't do either too seriously (linear algebra was a drag for physics students and I'm sure philosophy students noted the lack of sophistication in certain philosophical discussions by the scientists who didn't know proper philosophy terminology). I also wish they had brought physicists in to talk earlier on in the course, because some of the ideas we dwelled on (ex/Bohmian mechanics) seemed to be at least somewhat discredited by modern work in physics. Overall a very different and excellent class. Lots of small meaningful assignments kept us sharp and up to date on material.
The class is awesome and Ned is an amazing teacher! My view of how the universe works has changed for the better, and I believe I become a stronger philosopher. Just remember to keep up with all of the assignments and mini-responses/questions- there are no large assignments, but many smaller ones to keep up with.
I had taken Phys143a prior to this class, and can really only speak from that experience.  While there were interesting theories of measurement in QM and some interesting ideas on the philosophy of science presented, class time was frequently dominated by explanation of spin experiments and bra-ket notation.  I found it frustrating how much time was spent on the fundamentals of the physics and not on implications of theories or philosophy.
Hands down most awesome class I've taken.  It's hard work, but you'll enjoy it immensely!  Ned and the TFs are fantastic and so helpful.
A great way to learn a bit about quantum mechanics and a lot about some of the major problems in the philosophy of science. Don't be too intimidated by the quantum mechanics--just some interest in physics is enough to take the class. Ned is an amazing professor, too! Go to office hours if you have time. Finally, the class is perfect for taking pass/fail. It is extremely modular; the course has 100 points, and each assignment is 7 points with each question assigned a point value, so you can choose to engage with whatever interests you to whatever extent it interests you. That being said, the course's grading is pretty transparent and generous if you're taking it for a grade. The final is long and tough, though--start it early!
I came in as a physics concentrator who had taken Quantum I and II, and this course was a great experience and would have been so even if I had not been a physics concentrator. A physics background is useful, but by no means necessary for the course. Although the course started out a bit dry, soon we were delving into fascinating realms of superpositions and collapses. Many Worlds and Many Minds yielded some particularly "space-cadet" (to use Prof. Hall's terminology) discussions that were just really cool. The TFs will help you through any confusions you have, and I thought evaluations (in the form of the assignments) was initially quite rough but ultimately quite fair. Plus, we got to drop a few assignments. The course is very much a philosophy of science course, and you get to ask some of the most fundamental questions that pertain to the philosophy of science. (What is probability? Must we give an intuitively comprehensible picture of the micro-world and why? Are we fundamentally equipped to understand our universe?) This course was amazing. Take it!
Take this class. It gets you think in a way a liberal arts education would want you to think. The subject matter is fascinating and makes you question everything fundamental in the world and yourself. The workload is pretty small and the grading is fairly relaxed, so do not worry about difficulty. Background in philosophy helps a lot more than in physics, but neither are really required to do well here.
I was extremely enthusiastic about this course -- it's one of the most interesting topics, in my mind, in both physics and philosophy! However, I was moderately disappointed by the course. The course structure has some flaws; the assignments are often onerous, the take-home final is extremely painful due to excessive length, the graders returned work really slowly, and the course generally felt a bit disorganized. The course material is interesting, but I felt that I really needed a better math/physics background to truly grasp it; it was somewhat unsatisfying to treat it at such a mathematically/physically low level. Basically, I learned some things, but it wasn't as awesome as I thought it would be, and mostly made me want to take Phys 143a or Chem 160.
He promised cookies and there were no cookies!!
Take the class. You won't regret it and it's a great opportunity. Ned Hall is the man.
This course was pretty cool. Mostly a philosophy of science course, where quantum mechanics is treated as a case study. The work was very manageable, in that 3/9 could be dropped. The section component was far more effective than many other sections at Harvard: it was aimed at real discussion rather than review.
Make sure to participate in lecture and section.  The discussions are the central component of this course.
An excellent class taught by an excellent professor with the help of excellent TFs...expect a decent amount of work, but if you are willing to put in the time the teaching staff wants you to succeed and will work with you to make that happen
I was overall quite disappointed in the course, and I came in with high expectations based on the professor's reputation and the Q scores. The material presented is fascinating, but there was a lot of (too much) time spent going through purely scientific matters at a slow pace, and when we got to the interesting philosophical questions, Ned often opened the floor for "free-wheeling discussion" instead of encouraging us to analyze arguments with any kind of philosophical rigor.
The material you will talk about in this course is incredibly interesting, and Ned is easily one of the best professors at Harvard.  That said, it was incredibly disorganized, the sections weren't great, and most of the work was assigned at the end of the semester.  And the assignments are not easy by any means.  Overall, I think the pros outweigh the cons, but I definitely think the course can be improved.
One of the coolest classes at Harvard. It's extremely well taught, and it really teaches you a ton. I've recommended it to pretty much everyone I've talked to.
It's a fantastic course, but a difficult one. Don't take it unless you are willing to commit to it.
This is a fun class where you learn a lot
Amazing class, if you put the time and effort into it you will get a good grade and learn a ton. What all classes should be like
This class is very philosophy heavy. Ned is awesome as are the TF's. Go to office hours!! Especially for the final exam. This class will challenge your classical conceptions of the physical (and non-physical) world.
Take this course. Ned is awesome and the topic is really cool.
This class is about quantum mechanics, but it is MOSTLY a philosophy of science class. Most of the physics we learned was put into a context of philosophical argument, which often obscured the intriguing nature of QM. Don't expect to take this class and learn much about how our universe works. You will consider questions like "what is science?" and "how do you develop a good theory", rather than questions like "what is quantum tunneling?" and "what are the ethical implications of quantum mechanics?"
This class was extremely interesting, and Ned is FANTASTIC. Though there were some organizational difficulties (e.g. having most of the work be assigned towards the end of the course), I'd say it was really worthwhile.
This will be one of the most memorable classes you take at Harvard. Ned is a brilliant guy, but the material is inherently challenging. A math and physics background is helpful to well in this class. The workload is high, but it is very very rewarding. No other class at Harvard will make you question so many deeply held intuitions.
This really did not feel like a philosophy course; if you don't feel comfortable with high level math and physics material you probably will not excel in or enjoy this course.
I absolutely loved this class, but I found it quite difficult. You can succeed in this class, but time management is key! I frequently left assignments for the last minute and there struggled with them.
Take this class if you think you know what Quantum Mechanics means. Too hell with the mad easy math.
Aside from all the nonsense you read about Quantum Mechanics, this course teaches you what the real questions are that QM posits.  You'll have the chance to think critically at a level very comparable to the leading minds in the fields; some details are left out, but the central questions are the same.Think the idea of a multiverse is cool?  Wanna find out how you can instantaneously beam to the opposite side of the universe?  Want to know what the hell is going on with that guy's cat?  This is the class for you.
Tons of work, but totally worth it if you're interested in the subject matter. Completely changed my perspective on science's modern worldview.
I can't recommend this course highly enough.  The material is mind-blowing and will change how you think about the world.  I had so much fun and in every class I felt like my brain was working over time.  That is a great feeling when you haven't experienced in most of your other classes.  And I am not somebody who normally invests a lot in my classes, but this class motivated me to invest as much as I could.  Professor Hall is so much fun, so smart, so enthusiastic, and so ready to give you as much help as you need (as is Nina!)  I've never felt so challenged and so intellectually fulfilled as I did in this class.  Discussion is amazing!  And you'll bond with the other people in the class.  I met a bunch of great people.
TAKE IT PASS-FAIL. My god will you regret it otherwise.
You should without a doubt take this course. Professor Hall is an amazing teacher and philosophy of quantum mechanics is an awesome subject. What more can one ask for than being taught something great by a great teacher. This course will expand your thinking.
This is one the best classes I've taken at Harvard!  It will blow your mind and give you enough things to wonder about for the rest of your life.  It is a phenomenal class and Ned Hall is such an amazing professor.  He is funny, extremely intelligent, understanding, accessible, and just overall awesome.  The problem sets and exam are challenging, but work does not feel like work when you really enjoy and are interested in what you are doing.
This class is singlehandedly the most difficult class I have ever taken. Comparatively, it takes up more time than CS50. However, the feeling you get after finishing an assignment is surreal.
-It was a pure elective for me and I spent more time doing work for this class than for all my other classes combined, no joke-If you keep up with lecture material and readings, you will never feel unengaged, but you must be making an effort to think about the concepts we cover in lecture. Just hearing them once in class is usually not sufficient to "get it"
It's a fantastic introduction to the philosophical problem of quantum mechanics, and I think it will complement very well my learning about the physics of QM.
It is really interesting but extremely demanding. The grading is tough and unfriendly, and there is A LOT of new things thrown out at you in such small periods of time. This is not an easy A. Also, only take the class if you will a schedule that allows you to go to many office hours for help (which unfortunately did not.)
This course is a lot of fun, and a really good compliment to ordinary physics dept. courses in quantum mechanics.
Start the take-home early
This is one of the best classes, although it requires a lot of work.
This is a great class, but be careful not to pair it with too many other difficult classes in one semester. Professor Hall is engaging and class discussions were generally very robust and interesting to listen to, with or without actively participating. However, a lot will be expected in assignments and grading is not terribly lenient. Finally, don't leave the blog posts until the last week of the semester, and be sure to remember to email a question each week the day before class! It can be very easy to forget!
I would say without reservation that this was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  I am currently a bit upset that it is all over.  Ned is an excellent professor who obviously puts a lot of effort into his class and his students.  He does a great job teaching the course in an easy-to-follow, clear way even when we get into very difficult and odd concepts and theories.  As far as the philosophy side of the course, Ned had us ask ourselves difficult and interesting questions that I think many never ask or consider.
This class is a really great experience, and you will definitely learn a lot about how to think.  A word of caution: this is a really challenging course, so be prepared to spend a lot of time just thinking about really confusing stuff.  If you are taking this as an elective, I would recommend doing in pass/fail.  Also, this course will not inform you of the true nature of reality, so don't expect any conclusive answers :)
this class really pushes you to understand things, rather than to have a vague grasp of most of the material. you will find that you have never thought in this kind of way about the world around you, it pushes you to new insights that will forever change your life!!!
This course is a headache, and I complained about it all the time. But it was also the interesting class that I told all my friends and family about. I don't regret taking it at all, I just was happy to be done with it. It really is cool as elective, but it took up some time and a good deal of stress and worry.
Professor Hall is quirky and a lot of fun, and this class really covers some fascinating stuff.
Phil 151z makes the really interesting ideas found in QM accessible to any concentrator.
A psychedelic journey through the landscape of quantum theories with an enthusiastic, knowledgeable, and occasionally deviant sandal-and-sock clad guru as a guide that will leave you wondering whether your mother is a mindless hulk or an aspect of the jigglings of the One Particle.  And maybe there will be cookies.
Interesting course! But it would help to have an overview of the physics behind the theories and on how to write using philosophical logic.
The course was awesome. It accomplished the difficult of feat of being accessible to students with no background in philosophy or physics, while also being plenty rigorous and meaty for students with more philosophical experienced. Professor Ned Hall's lectures were not only crystal clear; they were lively, engaging, and always at the discipline's cutting edge. His capacity to solicit thoughtful student feedback and respond to it thoroughly and analytically was amazing. He's also really funny. Overall, the course reminded me of why I love philosophy.
Best class at Harvard.
Be prepared to be perpetually baffled, confused, and feel utterly hopeless that you'll ever understand the course every week. That's normal. But if you put in the work you can soon enough feel confident in contributing to the discussion and writing quality papers. If you don't know how to write philosophy papers, learn and learn fast. And always remember that the class is ultimately about thinking like a philosopher (at least that's the impression I got). The topics were fascinating and eye-opening, but being forced to discuss openly and honestly a topic that is so complex and unique is the goal in itself. Very rewarding class.
