mark richard is brilliant and eccentric. it's difficult material but well worth the effort
Enroll with caution. The title sounds more interesting than the course itself is. It is much more logic heavy than it is advertised to be, and at times seemed more like a math class. It is a lot less linguistic anthro than it is formal logic. I also assumed there would be more phil of mind and psychology involved. Not so. I would only recommend this course if you have already done some reading in the field and enjoyed it, or if you have taken logic and are very interested in it (and also very good at it).
Richard is a good guy, though sometimes the course is disorganized. Having taken logic will help, though it's not absolutely necessary. Probably shouldn't be your first philosophy course, especially if you haven't read about contemporary analytic philosophy on your own.
Not for everyone, especially those who are primarily interested in the history OF the philosophy of language, not in actually becoming philosophers.
The readings and assignments are quite difficult, but ultimately quite eye-opening and informative. Lectures are highly interesting, and you will have the opportunity to hear from (and speak with) an undisputed expert in the field.
you must take either i) another philosophy course, or ii) a course in linguistics, before taking this one. it would also help a lot to take intro logic (qr22). the readings are short and super interesting, but dense. the papers aren't too long; but, you may only be given a week between the topics being given out and the deadline, which is not the best arrangement. prepare to pull all-nighters for this class, but learn more than you ever have about language.
This is obviously a field of philosophy in high demand from students. The topics in the field are obviously very interesting. The problem is that the essay prompts in this class are not the best and the section will be a hit or miss depending on the TF. Richard is good in lecture, but I think there are likely a handful of other philosophy classes you haven't taken that might take first consideration.
if this is a field that you want to go into, then def take this class. you cover a lot of materials in a very rapid pace, so you will have to do a lot of work outside of the class. on the other hand, prof richard talks about contemporary debates in the field as well, so it's pretty exciting and enriching at a very high level. this should NOT be your first or even second philosophy class.
This course is challenging, fast-paced, and very fiddly at timesbut Prof. Richard is very open to hearing questions and talking with you. The essays assigned were not necessarily fair evaluations of our understanding of the material, and the topics were somewhat scattered; I would recommend the course if you are definitely interested in philosophy of language, but don't take it just because you feel you should know the material.
Philosophy is just a huge misunderstanding of language yeeeeeeeah
The class is a little disorganized, and you'll spend most of the time trying to understand particular papers on particular topics. Not much time is spent trying to give you an overall feel for the field, or trying to tie things together. Nevertheless, it's a great excuse to read a bunch of seminal papers in 20th century analytic philosophy, and Mark Richard is hilarious.
I just don't see how anyone could be interested in the vast majority of stuff that we learned/read about.  There was only one reading (the reading for the second paper) where I could understand why someone would be interested in it.  If you know you are interested in philosophy of language, then go ahead and take the class, but only if you really know you are interested in it (as in you have actually studied it before and liked it, not as in you are interested to see what it is like).
the course matieral is very diffictult. and prof nickel is not the best lecturer bc his lectures are hard to follow and his handouts are opaque. the handouts are long, don't get me wrong, but there is little sturcture to them and they just read like a long list of randomoly assorted bullet points. but prof nickel is extremely gracious with his time and his always willing to meet with students to talk about essays, and he wants very much the best for his students. his feedback on papers is some of the best ive seen.
Very demanding - philosophy of language is a high level topic and it is treated with complexity. Not a course where you can get the general idea from lectures - you either are paying attention and understand or you are lost.
The material is very good. Nickel is very dedicated and explains things well, but shows obvious biases in the classroom (esp. toward men). He can make students uncomfortable and is sometimes passive aggressive. He can be a little intimidating sometimes. He demands precision, which is really great, but he can also make you feel like an idiot, and that can make you less likely to want to participate.He has a very generous late paper policy--no grade deductions for late papers--but I know a few students who got really behind in the class because of it. I think it would be more effective if he had a late paper policy (with grade reductions) codified in the syllabus, and then was generous with extensions if people asked.
This class is incredibly well-suited for either philosophers or linguists, and anyone with interests in either of these areas who has some background in philosophy would benefit from taking this course.
It's a trivial and petty subject! Bewaaaaare
This is a great course in the philosophy department. The teacher is approachable (even though he was really intense in his office hours--totally tore me apart for my wrong ideas) and the material is fascinating. The TF this time around kinda stunk, but otherwise it was a good course. Also, there were a bunch of grad students in the course also.
These are important ideas to come across if you are interested in philosophy.
If you're interested in philosophy of language, this is a very good class. It integrates material from several different areas in philosophy (metaphysics, epistemology, logic), so it's a very engaging, informative class.
Professor Nickel is great.  He is very high energy and enthusiastic which keeps the lectures interesting.
If you are even tangentially interested in philosophical questions surrounding language, or have ever wanted to know about philosophers like Kripke and Wittgenstein, or even have a strong interest in modern philosophy in general, this is a fine course to take.
It's not as basic as it initially seems. That said, if you're willing to put in the effort, it can be a very fruitful experience.
Only take this course if you are really curious about the subject, because it dries up rapidly if you don't have a strong interest.  I also hope you analytical reasoning skills are a lot better than mine, and that you're willing to pour a lot more effort into the reading and writing, because I sort of just skimmed the surface once I found true understanding too difficult.
Nickel is not only a good teacher, but good looking too!! ;)
Philosophy of language may turn out to be quite different than what you imagine it to be antecedent to having exposure to it.
We were told by our section leader "If you write like the people we read in class, you will recieve a bad grade."  However, the people we read in class are supposed to be experts in language.  Something doesn't fit.
Excellent class, but only take it if you are really interested in the material. Expect to be perplexed, to be entertained, and to probably end the semester with more questions than answers.
1.  Make sure you know what philosophy of language actually is before enrolling.  No, it's not social anthropology, and no it's not about interpreting literature.2.  Don't let Mark Richard put you off the course.  He comes off as intimidating and strange at first (he may or may not talk to an invisible student named Bob who sits in the back of the class), but he's actually really great.  He's a very generous teacher, and there were a couple lectures in which I laughed so hard that I started crying.
If you like thinking about language and communication, I enthusiastically recommend taking this course. I didn't really know what philosophy of language was before taking Phil 147, but I feel well grounded in the material now. Mark Richard is an expert in this field, and it shows. He's exceedingly smart, and his open, enthusiastic feminism is refreshing, too.
This class can be highly rewarding, but you have to be prepared to work really hard in it.
This course is a good survey of topics in analytic philosophy of language. On the other hand, the course neglects significant areas related to language from Wittgenstein, structuralism/post-structuralism, and postmodernism. Bernhard is very good at the details of the arguments, but less good at contextualizing things in the bigger picture.
Bernhard does a great job in making fairly dry subject matter accessible. His handouts are very thorough and he's very helpful in office hours.
This is a good class! You will get a good understanding of what philosophy of language looks at, and your writing skills will improve tremendously with Professor Nickel's detailed feedback. The material is tough, but lectures are interesting, and Professor Nickel gives you every opportunity to understand what you're studying. I would take it again.
This class is interesting, but you need to have an extremely strong philosophy background and a lot of spare time on your hands if you want to get anything out of it / do well in the course.
Take this class! Bernhard is an excellent professor, and the class is small enough that every class feels like a section with a great TF!
It's a pretty good class, and covers good material you should have exposure to. The feminist philosophy of language was a new idea, and it honestly wasn't that great; hopefully in the next iteration of the course it'll be dropped in favor of spending more time on classic topics, which could certainly use the additional time to develop.
This course will give you a lot of new ways to think about language, and to discover puzzles about language you never knew existed. You'll also be able to explore just how much language and its nature relate to other things: our minds, the world, and so on. Not to mention, Professor Nickel is an amazing lecturer and teacher. Your thinking and writing will be better for having taken a class with him.
