Best class of my freshman year.  Take if you love science, take if you love philosophy.
definitely take it if you're interested in the questions it addresses. Otherwise it will seem tedious and technical
This class is essentially exactly as promised. A fair bit of work, but a surprisingly deep survey of all the greatest hits in terms of issues in mainstream philosophy of science. Some of the greatest hits are really irritating to read and frustrating to think about, but KNOWLEDGE. Ned is a phenomenal teacher and very accessible, so take advantage of that and go to office hours! Doug is a phenomenal TF and very chill, so take advantage of that and go to his office hours if he's TFing again! Also, for those without much background in philosophy: if the class dynamic is like ours was, there will be a few people who think of themselves as *philosophy students* and do the majority of the talking. Don't be intimidated - sometimes they say stupid things too, just in sentence structures that sound convincing. Assert yourself. That is probably true of every philosophy class, actually. But because nobody has really ever done phil of sci before, nobody has much background, so it should be even more democratic.
Go expecting to learn things about this field. Don't go expecting to develop your ability to argue philosophically.
This class introduces you to philosophy of science's most interesting questions. You'll be challenged tremendously, but the material is incredibly interesting and engaging.
This class is amazing.  It does change the way you look at science.  Ned is amazing.  He is very intelligent, is an engaging lecturer, and really cares about his students.  This has been one of my favorite courses I have taken at Harvard.  Definitely consider taking this class.
Ned Hall is terrific. The teaching is excellent. The topics are well-covered. It's an introduction to a great way of thinking, which can sometimes get tedious.
I think this class might have taught me, in a 'learning how to think way', more than any other I've yet taken. Not perfect, but *really* good--I highly recommend. Also, Ned [Edward Hall] is a gem and you should take anything he teaches ever.
Amazing course, you will find something you like.
Good class, a lot of work.
Ned and Susanna are great, and being able to learn from both of them was a real treat. The material in this class is really interesting. People looking at this class because they think they might enjoy the topics it covers should take this class because it does them about as much justice as a single semester can.
This class tries (not always successfully) to cover a lot of interesting topics. This class is less about actual science and more about thinking about how science is done and if that's how we should be doing it or not.YOU MUST TAKE OTHER PHILOSOPHY CLASSES BEFORE TAKING THIS ONE otherwise you will be completely lost over 50% of the time unless you can make this class your top priority. You have to be paying absolute attention at all times to do well in this class. The teaching staff assume a familiarity with modes of philosophical argument and jargon.
Overall, this course is great. Susanna and Ned are incredibly engaging lecturers, who also provide good opportunity for in class discussion. The "science of happiness" is rather uninteresting, but worth tolerating for the rest of the class.
One of the best classes you can take in the philosophy department.
This is a very good class with two brilliant professors. Plenty of work but very interesting and I would say requisite for anyone going into the sciences.
This course is a fascinating and wide-ranging survey of important topics in the field. Only write the longer paper if you have a topic you're really interested in  otherwise, you'll probably get more out of the short papers. Ned and Susanna were both engaging and clear lecturers. Ned often brought cookies.
Incredibly interesting material taught by one of the department's most competent professors. I was regularly amazed by how engaged other students were with the material. I don't think I've taken another course at Harvard where the learning environment was this strong. If you want to get anything out of the class, DO THE READINGS. Also, it can be tough to catch up if you fall behind.
This is one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard - an incredibly well taught, well-balanced overview of a fairly unique topic that is both intellectually and practically valuable. It's rigorous and the teaching staff has high standards (in a good way!), so if you're not interested in the topics discussed, it might be difficult to stay motivated. But if you're at all interested, or are looking to round out a philosophy concentration/secondary, I'd highly recommend it.Practically - go to office hours before writing the papers, even if you have a philosophy background; I found the topics to be a little more slippery and difficult to pin down than those in other philosophical subjects, and thus OH feedback to be more significantly useful. Discussing your ideas with someone from the teaching staff to make sure you're grasping the topics accurately and arguing effectively is very helpful. And get to know Ned and Susanna (and Kate, if she's still the TF!) if you can - they're all great!
Amazing professors, great material, be prepared to spend a lot of time editing writing.
This was my first phil class. It was tough, but I definitely came out of it a more precise thinker. Highly recommend if you like discussion or have a background in the sciences. It's a very different perspective on the science!
I found that this class did generate very interesting discussions, especially in my related courses, but I feel that it could have been handled much better. The material is very difficult - you'll spend a lot of time reading everything and trying to understand. The lecture styles of the two professors are very different - they lectured for a month and then switched. I ended up preferring Susanna's direct lectures as opposed to Ned's style that allowed much more student discussion. A lot of the readings were not decided until part way through the semester. I did enjoy each professor - both are good lecturers in their own right and very helpful when I met them one on one. I wish I could have met with Susanna more, but she cancelled her office hours often. Ned was very helpful in his office hours - that's where I got the most out of discussion with him. My section was not very helpful in understanding the material; it seems like we were doing related work and not focusing on what was going on in lecture or in the readings. I think this class would work much more smoothly with a better planned structure.
This class is a fun sample of various areas of philosophy. You won't learn too much, but it raises some interesting questions.
