This class is very difficult! You should have at least a strong background in math OR a strong background in analytic philosophy and logic OR a very deep and specific interest in the course topic. Of course more than one of these is even better. When taking the class, make sure you understand what is going on during each step since often, the papers and the exams ask you to synthesize many intricate arguments and definitions, and it is a tough call to figure that all out at the last minute. Office hours are a must.
We didn't get any feedback whatsoever over the course of the semester. Literally none at all; the midterm was never handed back, even. I have no idea where I stand in this course at present, and it's finals week.
This was a fantastic class. It was eye-opening to read Frege, Russell, and Wittgenstein together in this way. Frege in particular is a wonderful writer and ought to be much more well known than he is. Prof Goldfarb is brilliant and hilarious, and very genuinely cares about his students. He is very accessible outside of class time. A math background will help with understanding the "spirit" of the technical material in this class (specifically, Frege's construction of number, and perhaps Russell's construction of the external world by means of sensibilia).
This class is great. The material is interesting and pretty cutting edge for the area.
While some of the logistical aspects of the course may leave a bit to be desired, the fact remains that this is a superbly taught course. It does an impressive job of presenting valuable insights into some terribly dense but important texts, and for anyone who has an interest in the role of logic or mathematics in philosophy, this course is an excellent choice.
Fantastic material. Goldfarb is a great, clear lecturer and his passion for early analytic philosophy is contagious. That said, this course is probably not for you if you don't like highly abstract arguments...this course is basically about how three thinkers laid out their philosophies on how to do philosophy. If you like beautiful, abstract arguments about the nature of thought/logic/language/world you will love this class, if not, you'll be bored sick and confused. Also, we didn't receive any feedback in the course before our final paper and final exam happened, which is anxiety-inducing for some.
It's a quite good class, and it's sophisticated. Some of the techinical stuff (FRege's construction of number and the Russell paradox) are the hardest lectures I have attended at Harvard. But it intriduced you to how analytic philosphy got started very well.
Be prepared to grapple with very abstract and obscure ideas. The struggle to understand these ideas will make you smarter and a better thinker, but it will be a struggle at times.
STAY AWAY from this course unless you have a serious, avowed interest in propositional analysis and/or mathematical logic.
This class is good for students who want to work hard, who are interested in the subject, and who have background.
It helps you get a good foundation in Russell and Frege (especially Frege), so you know what other philosophers are talking about when they refer to these thinkers. Also reading the Tractatus at the end was quite interesting.
The content is why you have to take the course. But make sure that you understand the material by going to office hours and reviewing the notes because the assignments are going to come sneak up behind you and you're going to get screwed.
Very interesting; but very difficult. Fascinating subject.
This course examines some of the most interesting developments in recent intellectual history.  The topics discussed in this course are some of the most complicated and difficult to understand, and this course provides an excellent introduction to them.  For anyone who would like to seriously study analytic philosophy at some point, this course is a first-rate starting point.
The class is very interesting, but be aware that you won't know what to do for the assignments.
The course is a great introduction to a fascinating period in the history of philosophy and a great way to approach the intersection of philosophy and mathematics.
This course is fantastic, provided you are interested in the material from the start.  If you are not interested in questions of the foundations of mathematics, logic, epistemology, and ontology, then you will be sorely disappointed in the course.
The single paper which this class involves can be very difficult.
This is a really important class for understanding the foundations of analytic philosophy. In other words, if you are a philosophy major, you are missing major foundational material if you don't take this course. Prof. Goldfarb is good in lecture, though he doesn't take questions generally so make sure to go to office hours (or buy/rent some secondary literature to help you understand what's going on--the Cambridge Companion to Frege, etc.) This class is super relaxed because there are only a few assignments, so you can sort of do the reading on your own schedule. Take it, or at least shop it! Logic helps but it's still definitely worth it even if you're not great at logic.
Be prepared to fight; the later readings are a challenge.
The material is really interesting, but I would never take a class with Goldfarb again. The class was terribly-organized. Examples include: - The midterm date not being announced until one week beforehand (it was take-home, as well) - The first grades we received were as the term was ending, so evaulations were few and far between -To this day, I still do not know what percentage of my final grade is determined by what assignment, because no one bothered to decide - The readings for a given day were always very unclear; often no announcement was made - No information about the final exam was given out until four days before, IN EXAM PERIOD The material is fascinating, but this class was way too stressful and disorganized to be worth it. Disappointing. Taking it pass/fail would be a good idea.
Fascinating material, though it can be dry and abstract at times.  Goldfarb is enthusiastic and a great lecturer, but his actual lecture notes are the place to find traction.  If you keep up with the reading and ideas, the class is definitely worth it, especially finishing with the Tractatus.
This course changed my understanding of philosophy entirely. While I had done philosophy for a couple years before taking this course, I don't think I appreciated fully what philosophy was until I took this course. I recommend this course more strongly than any course I have previously taken.
I was not entirely satisfied with this course, primarily because I had trouble connecting with the subject matter, possibly through fault of my own.
Have a solid background in contemporary analytic philosophy (e.g. philosophy of language and logic, epistemology, metaphysics) before taking. Keep up with readings as they come; don't postpone till exams/papers. Start paper as early as possible.
This is best class I've taken at Harvard. Anyone interested in analytic philosophy absolutely must take this course. It teaches you to think in a completely new way, and it also forces you to evaluate and reevaluate the arguments made by the three authors just by virtue of the development of their ideas. The material is very challenging, so be prepared to read it very carefully. There is absolutely no point in taking this class unless you take it seriously. Goldfarb is a fantastic lecturer and an incredibly nice guy.
