If you like rigor or math or both, this class is a much better option than EMR17. You will learn a lot. If you are not a math-person, Goldfarb will make you feel like you are an inferior human being, and that's humbling (only slightly worrying because there is some truth to it). This course is a great introduction to Frege, Russell, Wittgenstein, Quine, philosophical logic and philosophical math.
I like Professor Goldfarb very much. I like logic very much as well. I think you can learn a lot from this class and really master the fundamentals of logic. I just hope you have a different TF. The material is super interesting, but the lack of support (aside from Prof. Goldfarb's office hours) make it a very difficult course--the psets are very challenging and will take up many, many hours.I also would not recommend this as an introduction to logic--only if you have a very, very strong background in math/are a math concentrator. This seems like a Math class at times.
Summary of the Course: Goldfarb=Brilliant, Dr. Etlin (the TF)=Confused, problem sets=reasonable, grading=too difficult, midterms=fair, lecture=phenomenal, Goldfarb's stories=amazing.
A good class but sometimes fast paced.
This was a really cool course! Apparently its the harder version of EMR 17  we finished the textbook (Deductive Logic, by Goldfarb himself) partway through the semester and then moved onto cooler stuff like axiomatics and higher order logic (i.e. set theory). If you have any math background its still a fairly easy class, but the tidbits about foundations of math (we looked at compactness, induction, cardinality, etc. from a logic standpoint) are not to be missed. As a lecturer, Prof. Goldfarb is very enthusiastic and eccentric. Expect to hear lots of anecdotes about his own logic education back when the course was taught by Quine! The only reason I wouldnt give this course a 5 is because there were significant problems (organizational and otherwise) with the TF, but I doubt hell be back next time the course is taught, so its a nonissue.
This class is difficult. You have to put a lot of work in. Also, sometimes you will think you don't know how to solve a problem at first. When that happens, don't give up. Reread the book, go to office hours, and DEFINITELY get a study partner. You can't do well in this class if you're doing it all on your own, because sometimes the only way to come up with how to solve a problem is to talk it through with someone else to make sure you understand it. But there's nothing quite so satisfying as solving a difficult logic problem, and this class affords a lot of opportunity to do that. If you've fulfilled the prerequisites, and you have some natural ability at mathematical/logical reasoning, you should be fine. I suggest shopping the class, doing the first problem set, and then deciding whether to take it, because this is really not a class for someone who has no previous experience. But if you do well on the first problem set then I definitely recommend the course. You come away feeling proud because you have learned a lot.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS IN ITS CURRENT FORM. It's wonderful to build from EMR 17 and go in-depth on topics barely covered. But the combination of the problem sets not even being tied to the current lecture material, and the horrible awful teaching fellow (who openly told us in section that 1) he was only doing this cause rent had gone up and 2) no one else and would do it and 3) casually mentioned that he hoped he wouldn't grade our psets drunk) made this class arguably the worst I have taken at Harvard. The material is interesting, but you'll never learn it properly to really appreciate it.
The class can seem a bit pedantic and boring at times, but if you like formal logic, this class is a good way to get introduced to it.
This class provides a great introduction to the fundamentals of logic and some more complicated issues in logic (including soundness, completeness, axiomatics, and second-order quantification. The class definitely moves a lot faster than EMR-17, and must of the learning happens on your own -- reading the textbook, doing problem sets and talking to other students.
This is a fascinating and difficult course. If you are interested in logic at the theoretical level and want to move quickly through truth-functional/more basic material, this class if for you.
This is a good course for engaging in reasoning and challenging oneself to think hard and problem solve. It is not a good class to take for fun, because, well, it isn't particularly fun.
This class is a fairly rigorous introduction to logic punctuated with many (related and unrelated) digressions. Prof Goldfarb is fond of anecdotes (if you've heard rumors about this, they were probably not exaggerated) but is a clear and highly comprehensible lecturer. Most of the class followed Prof Goldfarb's *Deductive Logic* textbook very closely. A good balance was struck between flagging philosophical issues when they came up and not getting bogged down in them, and I always appreciate a professor as forthcoming as Prof Goldfarb is about his philosophical predilections (or biases). I also wouldn't call this class difficult (though I might not go so far as to call it "easy")- it's just about mastering the material.
The course is challenging, but rewarding. You get a taste of some serious maths, and I think that everybody should be exposed to the material in order to develop more rigorous and careful habits of working and thinking.
