This is an excellent course, though it's also quite difficult.
The course centers on a pretty interesting topic-- even if it isn't immediately obvious. Prof. Behrends makes class engaging and fun plus he's very knowledgeable on the subject. While there is a decent amount of writing to do, it's worth it and helps sharpen philosophical writing skills.
If you are interested in thinking rigorously about difficult conceptual problems, this class will not disappoint. The course is most clearly defined by the weekly memo assignment-- 1-2 page essays on a text that Prof. Behrends uses to direct the class discussion. I took this class because I wanted to be challenged by interesting problems and also to take a class that spread its workload over the course of the semester, rather than concentrating it in intense midterms that would have been challenging to manage alongside my thesis. This class absolutely lived up to these goals.
This is a great philosophy course to think about the reasons we have to do things, and to get acquainted with a modern area of philosophical research. Professor Behrends is great at facilitating conversation and getting everyone engaged in the material. Take this course especially if you're thinking of doing more philosophy in the future: the course's assignments and content will make you well-poised to do so.
Practical reasons is a super fun topic, take advantage of being able to take a whole course on it.
It's a really well-run course, if you are interested in the topic. It is a pretty esoteric topic, in my view, so probably not for everyone.
The structure of this course meant that I engaged more with the readings each week than I ever have in a philosophy course. The weekly memos didn't feel like busy work at all, as we were frequently called upon in class to lead discussion based off of our memos. Intellectually, Jeff kept the discussion rigorous and engaging without allowing more knowledgeable students to dominate the conversations. Would highly recommend.
This class is probably the best philosophy class I've taken at Harvard. Make sure that you're interested in the the kind of questions that the class asks. If you aren't you might not like it. If you are, then you'll find the class discussion to be highly engaging and the assignments to force you to do very hard thinking. The way the class is formatted through the reading memos forces you think read critically and advance your views. This is a great class!
A really solid higher level phil class. Some things that are probably good to know: 1) be aware that there is a free, legal, online copy of the book Slaves of the Passions is accessible via Hollis+. 2) a reading memo a week actually ends up being a decent amount of work, since each memo requires a thorough reading of the assigned article and a decent amount of brainstorming, at least for me. That said, all the writing made me feel a lot more prepared for phil writing in the future. 3) class discussion is really fun and it really gives incentive to do all the readings since if you enjoy talking about philosophy you get a lot of chance to do so. 4) Prof. Behrends is super nice and super smart, definitely go to his office hours/take him to classroom to table or whatever else. 5) if you're curious what practical reasons is really about, look at some of the readings - it's pretty cool that there's kinda this whole area of philosophy dedicated to thinking about reasons for action. You'll feel like you have a good sense of the field after the course.
This is a great and interesting class. It explores one question very, very deeply.
Jeff Behrends is the greatest strength of this course. He is simply an excellent professor -- brilliant, clear, and approachable. I am struck by his ability to take any students' contributions, find the most important kernel of content, and tie it to the class's ongoing discussion. He's willing and eager to engage with students of all philosophical backgrounds. If you have an opportunity to take a class with him, do it. From Jeff stems everything else of quality in this course. Some examples follow: His system of reading memos. What a way to encourage critical engagement with the source material and presentation skills in a low-stakes setting. His grading values the right things -- quality and consistency of writing. I especially appreciated that he prioritized writing assignments over the ability to deliver original philosophical arguments on the spot in class. His approachability and availability is off the charts. Few professors will spend the time necessary to take poorly-formed instincts and develop them into fully formed thoughts. He does this.Be aware that the course is writing intensive. We did a total of 40 pages of critical writing throughout the course, in response to some very dense reading.USE JEFF -- especially if you're new to the philosophy department!
