I would encourage students to challenge themselves with this courseit isn't easy, but it's proven to be one of the more relevant/applicable courses that I've taken at Harvard. If you take it seriously, you'll find yourself considering the content of the course frequently outside of the context of the course.
Amazing class that will give you a way to philosophically and logically defend your intuition about racial issues. The class is quite left-leaning (obviously given the title), which didn't bother me since I am too, but may be off-putting to conservatives .
This class was certainly not easy, but it was very informative. It gave great background and sparked extremely interesting discussions about issues that are currently at the forefront of the American psyche.
The readings are very hard and the lecture was somewhat dry but the conversations it fueled were generally great!
The lectures can sometimes be dry, but the class is what you make of it. The topics dealt with are very important and the reading assigned covers them very well and will complicate your opinions on things you thought you had already reached decisive conclusions on.
This is a great class, but only if you take an interest. Patricia is a great TF, and Professor Shelby is a good lecturer. Both of them were also very helpful in office hours- the essay topics are harder than you originally think, so talk them through with one of them! The readings are interesting and not very difficult, but this is a philosophy class, so make sure you understand how to analyze these topics from a philosophical perspective.
If you take time to really engage with the readings, following lecture is much more helpful, and then responding to the paper topics is more approachable.
This course is as valuable as you allow it to be. You can do well without doing every single reading but for it to really matter you would need to delve deeper and really examine what you are reading and being taught.
This course provides a balanced overview of analytic philosophical perspectives on race and social justice. If you're into this stuff, this is a great chance to think about it much more rigorously. If you're not, maybe you should take the course anyway, because it's super rigorous, and by the end I'm pretty sure you'll at least have a sense of why social justice/race matters. Professor Shelby is a good, dynamic (but not excessively so) lecturer, and the TFs (well, Ronni who was my TF at least, and Patricia, the other TF, seemed pretty great) are really stellar.
It's important to understand that conversations around race and racism are difficult and complex - there is no right answer.
This course is fabulous. Tommie Shelby is a legend; the TFs were really great, and cared a lot about making the assignments and sections really helpful. The lectures/readings were occasionally a little tedious and "in the weeds," so to speak. Some were really fascinating, but you needed to do some of the more nitty gritty pre-work on a topic to get to the better readings. Also, if you really want a personal interaction with this material, then this course will frustrate you. It's intentionally abstracted (in a philosophical way).
i enjoyed the section portion of this class because you are able to talk openly about the issues surrounding race, and there are only 3 papers so not very much work. the lecture portion of the class was pretty boring though.
Take this class. You might be skeptical about engaging with such fraught, rightfully emotionally-charged subject matter in a discipline that appears to ask you to remove emotions or passion from debate. While it's frustrating that people should ever be expected to remove emotions or personal experience from discussions about race and social justice, there will always be some people who check out when they feel that someone else is becoming "emotional," and this class offers the tools not only to continue to engage with such people, but also to channel individual emotion and lived experience into the arguments you build. A background in the discipline of philosophy would be super helpful for succeeding in the course, as would experience with the subject matter of race and social justice from disciplines besides philosophy. However, this is an excellent class to grapple with either the discipline or the subject matter for the first time. The teaching staff is ridiculously thoughtful and built the course and assignments really carefully to support you to learn something. Both in office hours while preparing an assignment and in the comments we got back after turning in an assignment, I don't know that i've ever felt like so much time and thought was put into assessing my work at this school. It didn't even feel like it was being read to be assessed so much as considered, taken seriously, processed. I really appreciated that. It was also cool to have the submission and grading of papers be anonymous--just another example of how carefully thought out the course was. I heard pretty much only great things about the TFs from people who had Patricia and Ronnie. Lecture directly covers the readings, so it definitely felt easy to skip lecture sometimes if you wanted to do the reading carefully, i'm not sure how much attendance at lecture was monitored, but there were definitely a lot of people who thought the same way i did judging by looking around the classroom. Bottom line: super interesting material, incredibly thoughtful and intentional teaching staff, a great way to satisfy this gen-ed and learn a new discipline at the same time. Philosophy felt more relevant than i ever expected it would.
Great course. Fascinating readings and one of the best TFs I've had at Harvard. If you don't have any background in philosophy, expect to be stretched to catch up fairly quickly without much explicit conversation about the discipline. I don't think this is a problem, just something to be aware of.
Very interesting and relevant class that more people should know more about.
What you get from this class is directly proportional to the amount of effort you put in.  You can certainly get away with skipping most readings and still do well on the papers, but you will then find lecture and section to be extremely boring.  If you put the effort in, however, you will find this be a rewarding, challenging, and worthwhile class that truly forces you to tackle complex issues that are extremely current.
Minimal workload and great instructors but not a very interesting lecture - astonishingly low attendance rate
Definitely a gem worth taking if you're interested in the material. I took this pass/fail thinking the material might be a bit nuanced or the grading would be hard, but I regret doing that.
Enter this class with an open mind, try to follow arguments and it'll be great
Very interesting class and a good way to fulfill ER gen ed!  Lectures can get a bit dull but the information is generally really thought provoking and section is engaging, fun, and awesome!
It's great, weekly post is a bit of a drag but otherwise you learn a lot with not too heavy a workload
I took this course for a concentration credit (I'm not a philosophy concentrator, by the way), and it was relatively painless while pushing me to think beyond how I normally think. This philosophy course is satisfying because it revolves around the issues that consume our world today. I recommend!
The class really allows you to think in a structured manner about what you might think is intuitively true about race and social justice. It gives you the tools to soundly craft arguments that either back up or refute what you previously thought, and it will, at times, change your way of thinking. The lectures for the class are great; Shelby would lecture over the readings for that day, then spend the last twenty minutes or so with a sort of back-and-forth discussion about it. Sections really allow you to think about the material and parse through arguments. Honestly, a great class.
Every Harvard student should take this class. Learning to think critically about race in America is necessary knowledge for every single person on this campus. What is race? What is racism? These are questions that every single student needs to contemplate academically with as little partisan noise as possible.
well worth the discussion.
Even if you are already knowledgeable about contemporary issues of race and racism in America, this class will push you to articulate and understand the assumptions behind your arguments better and in a way that will be highly effective even if you want to be an activist. This course will give you skills that are highly useful for understanding and combating the bullshit that gets tossed around in American public discourse about race.
A really fascinating look at race and social justice in America today. Not the most engaged students but Shelby is awesome and so were the TFs so a little sad that no one really came to class.
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Shelby is brilliant, and his lectures are engaging and encourage participation and critical thinking. I know a lot of people had problems with this class, in that it approaches social justice issues like racial profiling/reparations/affirmative action from a philosophical and logic-based approach, rather than rooting arguments in experience -- like many students feeling that this specific philosophical approach can hit too close to home with some of the more contentious viewpoints on the syllabus, especially with all of the campus discourse this semester with #BlackLivesMatter and Missou solidarity and the hate crime against black professors at the law school. However, Professor Shelby was incredibly transparent at the beginning of the course regarding the approach he would be taking to a discussion of these issues, and that the course would not be for everyone. I highly recommend this course if you're interested in learning how to construct philosophical arguments to support experience-based viewpoints, but I would not recommend it if you're only interested in this class because of its focus on racial social justice.
It is a class that fulfills a Gen Ed requirement in the way that Gen Ed program was originally intended. I am glad that I took the class both to explore philosophy and to look at race and social justice in a new way. It is not too much work, so it would also be a class that could balance out a heavy workload. As a heads up, if you are looking for a class that will give you tools to talk about race or social justice, I would recommend taking something within the Af-Am or Sociology department. This class looks at things through a purely philosophical lens and is not too concerned with the specific narratives or statistics within these topics.
This is a course that is heavily enmeshed in the tradition of analytic philosophy.  I think that some students were frustrated that the course relied so heavily on cold argumentation and (sometimes) preposterous and even morally distressing thought experiments. To give you a taste, a prime example is a thought experiment in which it is stipulated that Black men commit crime at a much higher rate than any other demographic.   There wasn't a lot of room for things like personal testimonial, statistics, sociology, etc.  The professor also made a conscious pedagogical decision not to address current events.So, you have to take it for what it is.  I myself am partial to analytic philosophy, and I thought the course gave students a lot of fantastic and invaluable tools for thinking through complex issues of race in their own lives and in the current events in the USA.   However, if you don't want to approach the subject from an abstract philosophical angle or you find the approach distressing or distasteful, you are probably best off taking a different class.
While I think the material the course covers is super important, I'm not sure I'm a fan of the purely academic approach. However it definitely provides a decent toolkit for discourse if you were to encounter someone who is and wish to engage with him/her on the topic. Lecture was incredibly dry and uninteresting. Section was really great and Ronni created an environment where we all felt very comfortable sharing and learning from both her and from one another. Essays are due at 9am which is beyond rough and should definitely change in the future. The syllabus said they'd be due at 5pm and honestly might have affected my decision to take the class had I known about the 9am deadlines.
Lectures are not very interesting, but the subject matter (ie the readings) are very interesting if you have a background (personal and/or academic) in the topics of race, racism, and social justice.  This class definitely requires you to think critically about these issues.  Do the readings before section for sure, but it is not entirely necessary to have done them before lecture. This is a great class, I just wish that Shelby's lecture style was more engaging.
it's a wonderful and rewarding learning process!
Tommie is not only brilliant, but also has a sense of humor and warmth--a combination that is rare to find in academics these days.
The worst introduction to the philosophy department around.  For devotees of the subject and style only.
heavy reading load, tough paper topics
Don't take it if you don't like philosophy
This class is painless and interesting with very few requirements.
Very interesting course that provides a new perspective on subject matter that most are familiar with.
That is certainly a philosophy class, but that the class looks less closely at the black and white aspects of race, and more into the gray areas that are often overlooked. While this is a good thing, you will probably find this class to be extremely boring.
make sure you get signed up for the section that's at a normal time.
Be sure to utilize office hours! The prompts sometimes may be less than clear and there is a lot of intricacy to a lot of these philosophers arguments.
It's very interesting subject material, but I think it's taught poorly
Interesting and covers many topics relevant to today's society
If you are looking for a class about solving problems of racial inequality, YOU ARE IN THE WRONG DEPARTMENT. This is not a sociology class. You will not be discussing strategies for helping people. Rather, you will ask questions like, "what exactly makes racism wrong?" "is there a difference between racism and racial solidarity?" "is affirmative action justified?" If that sounds interesting to you, then take this class! Shelby is a clear and humorous lecturer. Enoch is the chillest TF ever. But if you're on a crusade to save the world, look elsewhere.
This is an incredible course to learn about very relevant issues which are such an enormous part of Harvard community dialogues.
This class is very good, as long as you know what you're getting yourself into. An academically detached, philosophical approach to racial issues is not for everyone. That said, it provides a valuable perspective when thinking about modern issues in social justice.
Although I was dissatisfied with this class at various points in the semester, I ultimately found it rewarding and I learned a lot. This class requires that you don't just engage seriously with the material, but also with the discipline of philosophy. You need to put in a lot to get something out of the class. Unless you keep up with the reading, go to lecture, and spend a lot of time on your papers, you will probably feel frustrated and bored with the class.
TFs are really inexperienced, if not new to the subject, and were more concerned about not having students' feelings hurt than facilitating real discussions. The readings are interesting but the lectures and sections don't offer anything new.
Fabulous professor, but weak sections. Don't take for the gened
If you don't have any experience with philosophy, you may find the paper-writing difficult (you need to know how to write a philosophy paper). However, it doesn't take long to get the hang of it. Go see your TF before the first paper, to learn about the structure required. Other than that, the class is very straightforward -- just one article to read for every lecture. Shelby gives well-organized and interesting lectures. Grading is fair.
This class covers a lot of interesting topics, and doesn't require a lot of work on a weekly basis.
~*~*~*gr8*~*~*~
Great Gen Ed. Really interesting topic but warning it IS a philosophy class.
Good way to fulfill ethical reasoning gen ed. Easy workload and interesting material though it can be a little dry at times.
It helps you define why/how you feel a certain way about issues surrounding racial justice, which I see as one of the most important topics we have today.
This has some high points, addressing provocative issues and incorporating some interesting readings. Given the fascinating course material, the class should be more engaging and stimulating than it is, and I've come away feeling somewhat let down.
You are going to be talking critically about race and are extremely likely to have very ignorant and racist people in your section.
Be ready to do a different type of writing.
More challenging than you think it will be, particularly if you are social science concentrator who's taken a lot of classes related to issues of social justice. Philosophy is a whole different animal for discussing these issues.
Pretty decent class. I got by pretty well by going to all of the lectures (Shelby's a great lecturer!) and sections but barely did the readings. Effectiveness of section really depends, some things that my classmates said really shocked me but other days the quality of debate was great.Writing for philosophy is very different but I got good feedback from my TF after my first paper so I got the knack of it for my second and final paper. No exams! Which I appreciated, I didn't want to memorize every author's line of argumentation or something... Also meant that if you really didn't understand one of the readings, you could just avoid that topic for your paper.
Take this class if you want to scan facebook for an hour every morning. Lectures are basically awkward reiterations of the readings, so many people pick one of the two evils and just stuck to that and neglect the other.
If you would like an ER that is very focused on social justice and race, take this one. It's a very focused topic compared to others, so you can go more in depth. It's a great academic component if you're extra-curriculars are somewhat related to this. One must be warned that it is not easy and you need to be able to grasp how to be a philosopher. It requires a lot of thinking and reading requires a lot of time. Writing papers need to be thought of beforehand, not left to the last day or two unless you are strong in thinking philosophically.
Excellent class, tremendous section, not a hard workload
It's okay. It is a pretty chill Gen Ed credit.
none needed, but you can tell when people don't have a background in AfAm or a background in philosophy. So there's a huge range of students -- from those who are taking as a joke to those who are taking it very seriously. The material is good but how much you get out of it is a question of how much you choose to put in.
Really interesting course with little time commitment.
I would tell future students that they need to have an interest in the philosophical side of race issues. This class is not about developing pragmatic solutions to issues of race but is focused on accessing current situations and solutions.
If you want to think differently about race and race relations, take this course!
Readings are the most interesting component of the class and section is engaging. A nice introduction to applied philosophy or exploration of deeper moral questions.
I honestly thought this course was amazing. The grading was a little harsh, but other than that, you're going to learn a lot. You REALLY need to keep up with the readings for you to do well. However, I think the information is so interesting that you'll find yourself wanting to do the readings and keep up with the course.
If you're interested in social justice, this is definitely the course to take.  It gives you in-depth exposure to the most thoughtful philosophical work on race and justice out there, and it gives you a great opportunity to grapple with these ideas, their theoretical roots, and their implications.
You should being willing to do a lot of reading to be successful in this class. Also, at the beginning of the course, you should attend the workshop/lecture on writing a philosophy paper. There are very different expectations from a philosophy paper compared to other papers.
Very interesting subject along with very intellectually satisfying discussions.
Do the papers early and get them edited
This is a relatively easy, manageable philosophy class. Come with an open mind about race-related social policy issues and you will emerge with a better sense of what should be done about our unjust society.
This is a reasonable course to fulfill the ethical reasoning gen ed requirement.
A good amount of reading. Philosophy experience definitely doesn't hurt. Most satisfying if you're prepared to be consistently actively engaged.
Grading is a little harsh, but the material is relatively interesting and the class is the least painful way to get the most awful Gen Ed requirement fulfilled.
It's a good course. I didn't like it at first, but it got better.
Incredible course. The workload is more than reasonable and the lectures/sections are straightforward. The material is challenging and relevant, read everything, talk to your classmates about it, hash it out in section, really great opportunity for awesome mind opening convo
this class deals with interesting content, and as far as moral/ethical reasoning core/gen eds go, is good.  however, lectures are not phenomenal.  but shelby is nice, fun, it's a generally relaxed and pleasant course.  sometimes dealing with tough emotional issues in a detached and philosophical way was frustrating.
This course can be very rewarding if students come to section prepared and willing to actively engage in the discussion.
I would definitely encourage all future students to both do all of the reading and attend all of the lectures to get as best an understanding of what is going on as possible.
This course is GREAT!  It's a really great way look at philosophical themes in complex real-life situations.  Really, really good option for the core; don't be scared by it's place in the philosophy department!
Take this course if you are interested in the theory behind many big questions pertaining to race and social justice.  I think some of my classmates took this for the general education credit because of an abstract interest in racial justice but ended up feeling out place because the class is not a discussion of what is practical or what is administratively possible in the real world--most of the class focuses purely on what is theoretically right or wrong from a moral perspective.
Take advantage of office hours with Professor Shelby. Professor Shelby is brilliant and very down to earth. Ted Alexander is also helpful but I wasn't able to go to his office hours because I had class during that time but he always made himself available.
Professor Tommie Shelby is amazing and makes this class worth taking. However, don't be dragged in by the sociological appeal of the topic of "Race and Social Justice" if you're not ready to deal with the differing standards of the philosophy concentration
It is a great class with great teachers.
If you are interested in issues of race, racism or racial justice or just plan on being involved in any position in which these issues will be salient take this class! it is sooooooooooo useful in terms of honing your thinking around these issues.
i would recommend the course if you're new to philosophy and interested in getting a feel for what philosophy its like.  however, while i think many would disagree with me, i'm not sure how helpful it is to look at some of the issues discussed in the course through the supposed apolitical and calm discussions staged in lecture and in section.  it feels very removed from how these debates play out (with very real consequences) in life, and while shelby stated at the beginning and the end that its helpful to have a space to refrain from the heatedness of these conversations, i actually think that framing them within the politics they're fought over is a more helpful and incisive way of understanding the core issues at stake.
Take this course only if you would like to consider questions of race in a very theoretical (and rarely practical or policy related) way and if you enjoy understanding all of the nitty gritty details in a reading. If that sounds like you, you'll really enjoy the class and learn a lot. Professor Shelby is a really precise and thoughtful lecturer too.
don't take this course unless you are a philosophy major.
This class is a good way to meet a GenEd. The reading assignments are excellent and the work is minimal. All in all, a great class.
great
It is work doing all the readings for this course.
Know how to write and think philosophically. Many students tried to take a more empirical approach, which was unsuccessful.
It is tough and should be taken with a lighter workload of the other classes to have a good amount of time to dedicate to working with the readings...Though they're short, they're hard to get through.
