The material was fascinating, and Professor McDonough generates enthusiasm for it. I was engaged in class. However, I needed more direction in terms of what Professor McDonough was looking for in papers. There was a lot of material and not much guidance in terms of how to engage with it. Lectures at times got hard to follow.
This is a great class. Professor McDonough is an excellent teacher, the readings are manageable, and the papers are fun to write.
If you are at all interested in the philosophical thought that still inspires much of our contemporary scientific discussion, this course is an excellent introduction.
If you're interested in these topics, this is the class to take. Prof. McDonough is great!
I would highly recommend this class for it exposed me to the value of studying philosophy from the history of ideas standpoint. I consider myself very fortunate to have been exposed to the philosophical thought of Berkeley and Hume. Also, the patient examination gave me the opportunity to think over, and appreciate the gravity of some of the issues discussed.
This is an incredible course, Professor McDonough is a must-take professor before you graduate, you will have a lot of fun, and of course, you will learn a lot about British empiricism in the process.  Could not recommend this course more strongly.
This is a great class that picks up some interesting issues. Professor McDonough is wonderful! I would recommend this course.
This is a well taught and engaging course. Come to class prepared to discuss the readings because it is taught in a seminar style instead of the traditional lecture.
professor mcdonough is great
Readings can be a bit tedious, so you should know what you're getting into.  That said, if you like Philosophy or History of Philosophy, it's an excellent way to do close readings of Empiricist texts.
This is a difficult and demanding course, but it affords students the opportunity to get a really in-depth look at the central empiricist texts.
Professor McDonough's lectures and the readings are wonderful. If one has any interest in epistemology and metaphysics, I would recommend this class wholeheartedly. I loved it.
This is a painless way for philosophy concentrators to fulfill their history of philosophy requirement. This material is not my favorite area of philosophy, but I actually found the class really interesting. Both the professor and TF are really good at explaining things, and there isn't a huge workload.
Great course, interesting material, phenomenal teaching staff.
This course was an excellent introduction to the British Empiricists. The reading list was excellent, and there were plenty of recommended secondary sources to either help guide you through difficult passages or explore central points more deeply. Furthermore, Professor Simmons is knowledgeable, interesting, and helpful. Her lectures are highly engaging and do a good job of setting the stage for the theories to come. Finally, the final exam is a real treat; take Professor Simmons seriously and prepare well, as this is where important themes are crystallized and understood. Overall, I highly recommend this course.
Prof. Simmons is a good lecturer and the British Empiricists are a fine read.
Really good class. Spends a little bit too much time on Locke and Hume gets shortchanged a bit as a result.
Very interesting class; you'll enjoy reading the seminal books in philosophy that are as important today as they are then! You'll be inspired, as I was by Hume and Locke!
Professor Simmons is amazing. She is a ferocious grader, and will criticise/question any aspect of your writing that it isn't entirely clear or justified. But this class is, precisely for that reason, amazing. You will find yourself pushed to clarify your language, and your internal thoughts.
Alison Simmons fully deserves her reputation as an unrivaled teacher. Lecture was great and office hours are a must. The texts are slow going, but the themes are insidious and the sort of philosophy that sneaks up on you when you're trying to go about engaging with the world in a normal way in daily life.
Alison Simmons is the best teacher you will meet at Harvard. (I am not kidding). This course is the course where you will meet 3 of the most interesting thinkers in world's history and it will push you to look at cognition and the human mind in a different way. You will develop close reading skills, and you will start thinking more clearly. Even if you dont care about the subject matter that much you will be surprised to see how much it matters and how shocking the results can be when you ask questions a little deeper than one might normally. These thinkers are so appealing because they all start with the assumptions that we embrace, and then things get more and more shocking. Go to office hours at least onceit will be an amazing and humbling experience.
Any class with Alison Simmons is a gem, but the empiricists are particularly fun. Readings are lively and vivacious and forceful. Alison is ultra approachable and you should definitely take time to chat with her in office hours. This class will make you think deeply about your own fundamental beliefs and the reasons you have (or lack) for having those beliefs. Not for people with idea inertia.
Few philosophers can start with premises so agreeable and end up with conclusions so unexpected as the philosophers studied in this class. For that reason alone, the course would be worth taking for anyone with an interest in the history of philosophy or empiricism; the fact that the quality of teaching in the course is also so high makes it truly excellent.
Course is great!
Alison Simmons is an a dynamic lecturer and excellent professor. She employs a Socratic method that encourages thoughtful discussion among the students. What was particularly impressive was her ability to cater to undergraduates and graduates at the same time, and also to students of varying philosophical background within each of those groups.
I have been proselytizing to everyone I know. This is an awesome awesome class -- it's particularly great for people who have a history requirement to take care of and need someone to hold their hand through the text, but also want an engaging and challenging class. It was really fun, interesting, and I even feel like I know a little bit about empiricism now.
Professor Simmons is amazing. She is incredibly nice and approachable. Definitely go to lectures.
This class demands a quite a lot of time, but the readings are fascinating and one can expect to emerge with a solid understanding of Locke, Berkeley, and Hume.
This course provides essential grounding in early modern theories of metaphysics and epistemology, which are both enmeshed in the moral philosophies of the period (including the ethical theories of the British empiricists themselves, notably Locke and Hume) and which later become points of reference for Kant and others who reject aspects of the empiricists' theories.
It's not the most exciting course, so I wouldn't recommend it to most students, but I would recommend it to other philosophy concentrators.
This is one of those classes that changes the way you think about the world.
EXCELLENT! Professor Simmons is accessible, funny and makes the material really clear. The essay prompts are well thought out and section, dare I say it, was fun. An amazing course.
This is a great course, and Professor Simmons is an amazing lecturer who will not disappoint.  I would have preferred more big-picture discussion about the empiricist project in general, but I really enjoyed the more specific lectures and discussions, as well.  My first time reading Berkeley, and I thought it was a great environment for it.  I would recommend this course if for nothing other than the great subject matter (the empiricists really do deserve a semester of your time) and the quality of Professor Simmons's lectures.
