Bump this class! Prof Cohen does a great job.
Best class I took
It is extremely interesting and useful for everyday life, and the workload is not demanding.
Please read! You can get a lot more out of this class by simply doing the readings (they aren't that long)
great professor and very interesting course.
A very good Gen Ed. Professor Cohen is an engaging lecturer, and the bible is actually quite interesting.
THIS IS AN AMAZING COURSE. You will learn in a stress free environment from one of the most amazing professors at the College and will learn to read clearer and understand the foundational document of Judaism and Christianity (and western society). TAKE IT!
It's an easy course, but if you take it seriously you will definitely learn a lot and gain a new perspective on religion from a historical standpoint.
This class is great if you need to balance out your schedule, and you'll actually learn things!
The course will expand or make you aware of complexities within the Hebrew bible that would otherwise be easy to skip.
It is a great course to read the Bible and look at it from an unbiased way. I thought it was taught kind of like an English class but the assignments were quite rich. I feel more aware of the world after taking this. Professor Cohen and the TFs are really great especially Tyler who made section super fun. Helpful staff!
Yes, this an easy GenEdbut if you engage with the material even just a little bit, this is probably one of the CB classes you can gain the most general value from.
Painless way to fulfill the CB requirement--take it if you're interested in learning more about one of the most foundational texts in the world.
Great course with very little work involved
Dr. Cohen is a nice guy and a great teacher. The course is low-stress, easy to follow, and very interesting if you put in even a  minimal amount of effort. Overall 10/10 would totally recommend.
It is definitely worth taking and offers a lot of opportunities for improvement.
This class is very easy, but it's also interesting. If you do take it, make sure to keep up with the readings (somewhat) so that you feel ready for the exam. Also, take the course seriously, because it is fun.
You learn a lot about the Hebrew Bible and Judaism. A lot of 'common knowledge' about the Bible is actually incorrect, so it was cool to see those debunked. It is quite a bit of reading, but Prof. Cohen helps you stay organized with very clear assignments. Generous amount of time to write papers. TFs are very knowledgeable about the subject matter. Keep up with the readings, though! It adds up very quickly.
Yes, it's as easy as everyone says, but I don't think you should take it just for that reason. I went in with a good attitude, thinking I'd learn something and find the material really interesting, but it's really hard to motivate yourself to go to the lectures once you realize how easy it is/the fact that you don't need to go in order to get an A. Section was incredibly boring. It quickly becomes everyone's lowest priority, so no one really does that reading or cares about section. Take it if you really need the easy A.
This course gives a taste of the creation, function, and application of mainly two forms of Biblical criticism, i.e., the Documentary Hypothesis and the broadly defined traditional interpretation. However, it does not cover all the possible approaches to reading and understanding The Hebrew Bible.
This class's lectures are very interesting and allows one to think about what is their view concerning the Bible. This class leads one to expand their view about the Bible, coming from someone who had a parochial view of it prior to taking this course.
This class is super straightforward and if you stay on top of the readings and go to lecture regularly, you'll be fine. If you start skipping lecture and saying you'll do the readings later, the assignments and terms will pile up and you'll be stressed up trying to memorize it all in 1 day.
Great class.
I think this class is a must-take for anyone with little or no knowledge of the Bible, and who plans on engaging with the Western cultural world. I loved reading the Biblical stories and learning about such a seminal text. Since many students take this for an "easy A," section is not necessarily the most dynamic and fun part of the week, but it was still helpful.
This was a great survey class. I learned a lot but didn't have the pressures of too many assignments or evaluations. I would definitely recommend this class.
This is a great course and I highly recommend taking it. I had never read the Bible before and through this course not only did I get a great understanding of it, but also really enjoyed learning more about the topic as well as the role of religion in the society. Professor Cohen is amazing and Luke is the best TF ever! Additionally, if you do the work, you will get the grade you want.
This class is easy in the sense that the entire test (the questions) is basically given to you before your exams. However, this doesn't mean it ensures an A. As a student, you still have to go through material to seek answers for these questions and prepare for the exam. But if you utilize what's given to you beforehand to prepare for exams, you'll do great.
The ideal gen ed. Not too difficult but fascinating material and well taught.  Also, the teaching staff puts a lot of conscious effort to represent different perspectives and not pressure you to conform to one particular bias (which is more than I can say for a lot of Harvard professors). Although I'd avoided this class for 3 years, it ended up being one of my favorite classes! Made me wish I'd taken more religion classes in college. Prof. Cohen is a gem.
If you take any other class for your CB, you don't know how to Harvard. Hebrew Bible is the one true gem.
Very easy gen ed.
If you want an introduction to the Hebrew Bible and, more specifically, the interpretation by the Modern Biblical Scholars, you will enjoy the material.
Do the readings, be active in section, you will be fine.
So much return on the time you invest in the class. I really enjoyed it!
Best class. Simply.
If you attend class and follow along with the weekly readings and terms, this course will be extremely easy and you will barely have to study for the exams. If you don't do any of those things, the course is still manageable; you'll just have to cram a LOT. Still worth it though in my opinion- two nights of stress a semester is a worthy trade-off for never having to attend class/do homework.
Just because this class is known to be a painless way to fulfill Culture & Belief, do not take this as permission to slack off. Your life, especially come exam time, will be much easier if you stay on top of the readings and attend lecture (or watch the lecture videos). Professor Cohen makes his expectations clear from Day 1; do what he says, and you'll do fine. You definitely get out of the class what you put in. The material and readings are actually quite fascinating, so pay attention when you can!
I actually learned a lot from this class, but make sure you actually study for the exams...
- a fantastic way to come to understand the roots of Christianity, Islam and Judaism. - learn a lot about your own beliefs on God and life's great questions.
great exposure to Bible for those who have never experienced it. even without doing the readings, will leave with appreciation for complexity of the Old Testament.
You'll take a lot from this class.
The course is not very much work at all. If you're not familiar with the subject material, definitely do the readings, because otherwise it will come back and cause problems towards the end of the class. Readings are optional for those familiar with the Hebrew Bible.
This is an course with a relatively low workload. If you stay on top of the readings it is very manageable.
Unless you are passionate about the bible, this class is an extremely boring class, which I am unlikely to recommend.
Very good gen ed, take it!
This class is a great way to learn a little about the Old Testament or the Hebrew Bible
I can only speak for my TF - I know other students who had different TFs didn't share my experience. However, I felt my TF was WAY too picky with grading my essays. I was either too broad or too specific, never quite hitting the nail on the head (according to him). It's definitely an easy class, but be wary of the fact that because lots of the Bible is ambiguous it's very easy for graders to screw you.
Professor Cohen is amazing, funny and engaging, and the subject matter is fascinating. This should be a required course!
Take the course, especially if your are religious.
Take this class. 100%.
Great class! Take it. A Harvard gem.
Very little workload. Very easy to do well in. Professor Cohen is awesome. You can get away with not going to lecture or even watching the videos and still do well, but the material is actually really interesting and lectures are definitely worth going to
This class is a great opportunity to expand your knowledge of religious thinking and interpretation during a time when differences in interpretation can cause serious violence and oppression.  Just a gem.
This class is NOT easy. There is so much to memorize, and knowing the Bible is a really difficult matter.
Very easy class. TAKE IT. YOU WILL THANK ME
The professor and section leaders make this class enjoyable because of their enthusiasm. If you do the readings and engage in section, this class will be one of your favorites.
This course lives up to its reputation, but not in the way you'd think. Keep up with the readings during the semester... do not let it all sit until the very end, because although it's not too not difficult, there is a lot of information that is incredibly tedious and (maybe even impossible) to learn and memorize one or two nights ahead of exams.
This class is a great way to learn a bit about the Bible.  It is not a ton of work.  The lectures and readings were very interesting.
This is a great class. It is intriguing yet doable. Take it.
Hebrew Bible is an awesome course for a few reasons.  For starters, the material is pretty cool.  If you go into this class and you want to learn a lot, you legitimately have that opportunity.  The bible commentary provided by Kugel was really fascinating and well presented.  That's definitely there for the people who are genuinely interested in getting wrapped up in biblical studies and leaving with a really deep understanding of the hebrew bible.However, the course is also easy.  It's possible to get by without doing very much.  Regardless, even if you do the bare minimum of breathing in section, you're going to get something out of this class.  Maybe you'll catch a biblical reference you would have missed, or maybe you'll have a greater understanding of documentary hypothesis and ways of reading the bible.  Because of this, I'd highly recommend this course to someone taking a heavy course load, a lot of extracurriculars, or someone who is just really busy and needs a culture and belief gen ed.  You can choose to learn a lot.  You can choose to not learn a lot.  Either way, you'll learn something with very minimal stress.
You'll get out what you put in. I did the readings for the first half of the course and really learned things. I fell behind and then just never did them for the second half and it didn't affect my grade but if affected my enjoyment of the class. If you need a super easy class that requires very little time from you take this class but know that you will like it a lot more if you actually do the reading.
This is a great, laid back gen-ed that can be interesting as well.
It's a great class. Low workload but you get a lot out of it. The TFs are very helpful and professor Cohen is a joy to listen to. Best way to fulfill the CB requirement.
The class is easy overall - you get out of it what you want to put in to it. Actually a lot more interesting than it initially seems.
Do the readings and participate in class
Interesting if you do the work but many people do not. You can learn a lot from the class.
Very easy class
A lot of students will say this class is a breeze. It takes a bit more effort than people make it sound if you have no prior experience reading the Bible.
Very low workload, very generously graded and really nice teaching staff
great class -- low work load but also pretty enjoyable
This is a pretty chill class that also teaches you a fair bit about the Old Testament. I'd definitely recommend this class to anyone who wants to learn a bit more about the Hebrew Bible, as well as anyone looking for a relatively pain-free way to get their CB requirement.
easy gen-ed but won't learn much unless you put in extra effort
People say that this course is really easy, but I think that if you put in the work you can really get a lot out of it. I loved that this course was not too overwhelming and allowed me to enjoy the material.
Great class, just out on the effort to do the readings and go to class
you must do the readings in order to do well but they are enjoyable if you are interested in the subject matter
Very good and chill class. Definitely take if you are interested in finding out more about the bible and where it comes from.
Fun and Interesting course
Overall the material is interesting, the reading is a bit much but the pre-typed lecture notes are very helpful.
Cohen is absolutely amazing, please take this class. Low amount of work required to do well, but I think the work/readings that you do are actually rewarding--I recommend with enthusiasm!
You will learn a great deal in this class if you are willing to engage in it thoroughly
This class is amazing.  Professor Cohen is highly entertaining and very engaged.  I highly recommend it.
This was a great course! If you do the readings and come to lecture, you can really get so much out of this course. I learned a great deal and thought Professor Cohen was great - I would definitely recommend this class.
This is a great class. Dear God (YHWH) you should take this class.
Painless way to fulfill CB!
Excellent introductory course
A gem of a class.  The teaching staff is great -- Cohen is sweet, funny, and smart, and all the TFs are as well.  The material is interesting if you feel like reading it, but if you have a busy week then you can totally get by putting in no work.  It's the easiest class you can take here and it's still fun and interesting.
I would strongly recommend this course as an elective or gen-ed. It offers very interesting material for those who have no religious experience and an interesting perspective for those who do. The readings are very relevant to what is taught in lecture and the workload is definitely doable.
Can be a little bit tricky
It is interesting and not stressful.
If you are one person that wonders what the Bible's significance is I would say you are supposed to take this course. For those who already know what the Bible is, I challenge you to take the course and realize how much you actually do not know about the Bible.
It was a ton of reading but was worth it in the end.
The Hebrew Bible is a GREAT class to take if you grew up with a Christian background. I came into college wanting to strengthen my faith and become more knowledgeable about the Bible, both academically and spiritually. CB39 really fulfilled my goal of becoming academically well-versed in the Bible, because I actually studied and read so many biblical texts that I wasn't familiar with previously (ex: the destruction of the Canaanite nations in Joshua/Judges, the monarchical reigns in Kings/Samuel). It also challenged me to really take ownership of my faith, because there were many things in the Old Testament that I didn't agree with or was really shocked by. Forcing myself to reconcile the loving New Testament God with the wrathful Old Testament God was difficult, but ultimately so rewarding.
Stay on top of the reading.
Def not as easy as it was before, but still EZPZ. It gets hard if you don't go to class. Go to class.
This has been considered an extremely easy class that is an automatic A, but that has not been my experience. There is a lot of information and you do need to put in the work to get that A.
Be sure to keep up with lectures
Really enjoyed the class.
It's a great course to take to balance out 3 other hard classes.
If you want to boost your GPA this is it.
Great Gen Ed if you're interested in the Bible!
Main perk of this class is the relative lack of work -- you'll probably end up hardcore cramming right before the midterm/final and right before the two papers are due, but outside of that, you can honestly get by without too much time spent.
Shaye Cohen is a very emphatic, fun professor.  The course itself doesn't require a lot of work.
This was deceivingly hard and I struggled a lot with this. Teaching was terrible. Final was super difficult
For anyone interested learning about the Bible, this course provides an easy-to-manage but informative experience. The perfect gen-ed!
This is a very insightful class. Even though there is not much work, make sure to do your readings and participate in section, as they will be very fun!
SC is a great, great lecturer.
Class gives the students a great understanding of the origins of all monotheistic religions and shows the evolution of israelite thought, identity, and motivation.
Very easy class, but super interesting as I did not have any background with Judaism/Christianity. Basically required knowledge for anyone living in a Western culture. Almost no work outside of class.
Just study what's given and you will do great!
Attending lectures and paying attention in them will make preparation for the final much easier.
The class is a great opportunity to study the Hebrew Bible, a text at the heart of Western civilization.
This class is no workload besides the papers, midterm, and exam. Definitely take it if you want a gen-ed that is not time consuming.
It was a very holistic overview of the Hebrew Bible. I came in not knowing anything about the Bible (I mean it. I had no idea who Abraham was), but now I know more than some of my religious friends!! I admit I took it it because it was known to be easy and I needed to balance out my other harder courses, but I'm so glad I took it. The class is only easy if you put in the work and remember the stories and terms, which is great because it forces you to learn all these super interesting and relevant biblical stories, but also not too stressful because you know that as long as you remember them and do the readings you'll get a good grade. Probably my favorite Gen-ed class so far!!!
Take this class! I had never read the Bible before, so this was a great introduction to religion if you're interested. Don't be worried that other people may be more familiar with the material, it is not hard to learn.
Great way to fulfill C&B, as well as an interesting class.
Prof. Cohen is a great lecturer. His enthusiasm for the material and his humor translates even in the lecture recordings, which I used a lot. Workload is fair. Great teaching staff. Especially great course for people who don't know a lot about this material. If you already are very familiar with this material, it may not be as fun for you. I took this after I took CB 23 and it had different emphases, so I still learned a great deal and enjoyed it as much I enjoyed CB 23. I do think CB 23 was a bit more interesting though because I liked the comparison between Christianity vs. Judaism.
If you are interested in learning more about the Hebrew Bible and the many narratives that are found in the Old Testament, I would surely take this course. It is a very friendly environment and they judge no one based on your background.
Very easy
If you put the time into it, this course can be incredibly rewarding. The knowledge that you will gain is critical to understanding many of the traditions and ideas that drive Western culture. If you are Christian or Jewish, note that this class focuses on Modern Bible Scholarship, and you will most likely have to re-learn perspective on the Bible.
it's an easy A. you learn as much as you want.
TAKE THIS CLASS especially if you have background in any Abrahamic religion. Chillest way to complete the gen ed and it's also a very interesting course that raises great questions and changes how you'll approach reading the Bible
This course changed my perspective on religious literature and the scholarship surrounding it.
I would recommend attending lecture
This class is painless, fun, easy and interesting! Definitely a good way to get Culture and Belief!
This class is really interesting, and the professor is great. Readings can be tedious, and the midterm and final cover a lot of material. Definitely doable, great gen ed.
This is an interesting course, and not difficult.  Very good for a GenEd requirement, with little time commitment. However, do not come in expecting a balanced argument about the bible - the bias is clearly towards Modern Biblical Scholarship, and if this is your only exposure to the Bible, it would create an unbalanced view.
Though easy, still needs investment to do well
This class is the definition of a "gem" class. It has truly no work - it's honestly really silly. Lectures are interesting but no one goes, so you feel like a try-hard simply for showing up to class. Something's gotta change in the gen-ed department, because these kinds of classes are simply useless.
This class is very easy, but it teaches a lot of interesting material. You can make an A without ever going to a lecture, but you get out of this course what you put in. I would recommend Hebrew Bible with enthusiasm to anyone looking to fulfill an easy Gen Ed.
My best experience with the general education system.
It is so important to have a basic understanding about something that is so important in our society, and this class presents it in an interesting and though-provoking way. Throughout the course of this semester, it really changed the way that I thought about religion. I would recommend this class to anyone, no matter what your religious background.
It's a easy but a pretty good class and worth taking.
This class is great to take if you are interested in Judaism or Christianity, like writing a few essays, and want an easy class.
Keep up with lectures even if you don't go to them
Take this course because it's a great culture/belief gen ed. It's also very important to learn basic concepts of the Bible.
This course is great as a gen ed and a good class in general. Professor is really engaging and the TF's - especially Eric - are helpful and facilitate interest.
keep up with reading or you will really fall behind quickly
Take this class! If you've ever wanted to learn more about the Hebrew Bible this class will provide you with a great introduction. The readings are all very manageable, Professor Cohen is great, and the assignments are painless and very interesting. Professor Cohen says on the first day that he wants to help you get an A, and that really rang true throughout the course. You're provided with everything you need to know for the exams, which gives you more time to appreciate the texts you're reading and get as much out of them as you can.
If you are looking to fulfill a culture and belief gen-ed, this class is great since it is interesting and does not require a lot of work
Really awesome class.
This course serves as a broad introduction to the Hebrew Bible. If you want to go beyond the essentials of what the lectures cover, it is really your onus to make it interesting.
GREAT course!! The Hebrew Bible forms the basis for a significant part of Western cultural history, i.e. in art history, literature, etc, aside from being the foundational text of Judaism. Having an understanding of the stories and themes of the Hebrew Bible part of being an educated citizen and scholar. Prof. Cohen is an incredibly engaging lecturer, and sections are well organized. Can't go wrong taking this course
Hebrew Bible is quite an interesting course. It challenges the basic assumptions of the Bible by taking an academic approach. Whether you're religious or not (I'm not), it's worthwhile, and not particularly difficult.
Really easy, really interesting.
Wonderful gen ed. Seriously, they prepare you for everything and give you all the materials needed to be successful in the class. But it's also very interesting, and you take a lot away from this class.
This is an enjoyable class in which you will engage with the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament. It is not challenging per se, though you will be kept occupied and stimulated
What you get out of the class is relative what you put into it.
Take the class!! It is so interesting -- fascinating, really -- and Professor Cohen is a really incredible professor/lecturer and a very nice person. He really takes the time to get to know students. This was one of the top classes I have ever taken in my life.
Definitely take this class! It doesn't ask too much of us, and what you get out is what you make of it. I personally feel like I learned a lot, and actually found myself enjoying studying for its exams.
This class was great! Low work, and you get to learn a lot of interesting material about the Hebrew Bible. Great CB choice
Do the readings, go to lecture. If you put in the time you will have no problems.
This course is pretty much the ideal Gen Ed course; you don't have to put in too much time (and in fact can get away with neglecting the course for the entirety of the semester and cramming for the exams), but it also features interesting material, especially if you have little or no experience with the Old Testament. Would definitely recommend as a flexible Gen Ed option.
This class is a gem! I strongly recommend it for anyone with a Jewish/Christian background. It will be easier for you because you're already familiar with the narrative and it will both supplement and challenge the way you view scripture in your faith.
You will learn and reflect a great deal on the Bible. Yet, you will not have to worry very much about your grades, allowing you to enjoy the course even more. Take the class to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement, or simply take it to pursue any interest you have in the Bible!
A fairly interesting class that will require more attention and reading than you might initially expect.
Great course. Will teach you the historical basis of the bible, and teach tut to read it in that context. I got so much more out of the text new that I have the knowledge this course gave me, which has deepened my cultural and spiritual awareness regarding Judaism.
I highly recommend this class!  Professor Cohen is excellent, and the course is very interesting.  Professor Cohen does an great job of surveying the Hebrew Bible in one semester, and we learned about the techniques used by modern biblical scholars when analyzing the bible.
This class is fantastic. The TFs are great, you learn a lot (but you get what you put in), and it's honestly one of the few Gen Eds I've really enjoyed. Take this class, you won't regret it!
You kind of get the idea after 1 lecture.
This class is great if you do the readings and keep up with the lectures. I always heard it was a super easy class, but if you're not actually doing the work when it's assigned you're going to have a hard time when the midterm and final role around. You'll learn a lot though!
Great class to take for the gen ed. Professor and TF's are great. Caters to a spectrum of interest levels.
Shaye is an incredibly engaging professor. Loved the course and teaching staff.
The material is pretty interesting, and is also very easy to understand. Paper topics were engaging and fun to write, and exams overall weren't too challenging. Completely unnecessary to show up to class, and sections were relatively easy to get through even if you didn't do the assigned reading. As long as you're capable of memorizing material for the exams and reading enough to write a good paper, you won't have any trouble with this course.
This is a great class--take it! Cohen is a phenomenal instructor. You'll learn a ton with a low workload--the sign of a great professor.
Great course. How Gen-eds should be taught.
Overall, this class is, in a word: fine. The material is actually quite interesting if you take the time to go to class and enjoy it. The assignments are actually quite annoying--the prompts for the essays are very open ended and it is hard to know exactly what they are looking for. Also, the papers are of non-trivial length. That being said, for both the midterm and the final I learned everything I needed to know the day before the tests. Overall, you will probably get an A in this class but youre gonna wish you actually learned more. Being surrounded by unmotivated students that only are there for the grade is very annoying.
lectures are interesting and it's great to actually analyze the bible yourself
This class will either thoroughly educate you on the Ideologies of the hebrew bible, or it will reshape some of your understanding and beliefs of the bible.
It's a very straightforward class. Just do the readings, show up to section, and everything will be great.
This class is a very good way to fulfill your CB requirement. Eric is a great TF. Papers and exams are fair, the material is interesting, what more could you want?
Shaye Cohen is good if a little dry at times.  If you don't know much/anything about the bible, or even if you think you do, it's a worthwhile course: it really gives you a good unified understanding of the themes of the torah, the bible as a whole, and thus the foundations of modern religion.  Decent amount of reading, overall good class.
Great class, really interesting, and absolutely worth taking.
This is absolutely great class. The Teaching Fellows all do an incredible job of making sure that you understand the lecture material and Professor Cohan is a very engaging lecturer. I would highly recommend taking this class to fulfill your Culture and Belief requirement. There is a large amount of support just before the midterm and final.
This is a great class. If you're interested in gaining a working knowledge of the Bible and learning about biblical scholarship, this is the class for you. The readings from the Bible and from the textbook (Kugel) are never unnecessarily long or dull; the course provides an excellent survey that hits on the most interesting and relevant portions of the Bible. Furthermore, Professor Cohen is an awesome lecturer. He always keeps the material fun and interesting. I highly recommend this class.
I liked this course. I had basically no background in any of the stories of the Bible, and I'm really glad that I now know of the most important ones at least in the Old Testament. I feel that people who have experience in the subject matter definitely have an easier time, but such is the nature of life and I don't hold the course responsible. You can get an A in this class if you put in the necessary time.
This course is a fantastic gen ed if you want to fulfill CB. You learn a lot and it's not too difficult. The assignments really make you engage with the material. If you go to every lecture of skip all of them, no matter what, you will leave the class with a good understanding of the Hebrew Bible. It's designed in such a way that forces you to learn.
This is one of those classes that you walk away with knowledge that will be valuable to you 5, 10, 20 years down the road.  Overall, a great class.
Its very fun.
Fairly easy class, with somewhat interesting material. Good way to fill CB requirement.
This class offers an environment of stress-free and interesting learning.  I wanted to learn the material and it didn't feel like work because it was very interesting.
Easy to forget you're enrolled in this class
structure of the class is great - the 2 exam / 2 paper structure ensures that you learn the material, but offers a bit more flexibility than some other classes in terms of scheduling - great if you have a bunch of pset classes
Super easy. Super manageable. Take it from someone who never takes non-science/math classes
Low workload class.  A survey class that even those with no previous exposure may appreciate.  Approaches the historical, theological, and political elements that worked together to shape the Hebrew bible.
Great way to fill this gen Ed requirement. An absolute gem.
This class was more intense than Q scores made it out to be. If you are a Jew or a Christian that already knew some of these stories then you were ready for this class to be smooth sailing. If not, you had to put in a lot of reading time and memorize a lot of ID's and identify Bible passages. The non-essays are also a little tricky but I think it's just because the idea of a non-essay is weird to me.
definitely take it if you have an interest in the bible!
Only take this class if you're interested in the material and will do the reading / are looking for an easy class. It's really easy to be not motivated because of some incredibly unmotivated people.
It is a really interesting class and you can learn a lot if you put time into. It is possible to do reasonably well without devoting yourself to the material, but it is much more interesting if you do and you will walk away with the ability to engage in some really interesting conversations.
This course is borderline must-take, a designation I reserve for very few Harvard courses. It is fascinating material with a brilliant and entertaining lecturer. They require no more work of you than is actually necessary for you to learn. The lectures are on video. And to put it over the top, it fulfills one of the more bizarre gen ed categories. What more could you want?
Take the class because Professor Cohen is great, lectures are interesting and you'll always come out knowing something you didn't know before.
Good class if you're engaged by the material, but it's very easy to do no work and not listen, and get very little out of it in the end.
It's a wonderful opportunity to not only read the Hebrew Bible but also learn about the scholarship surrounding the Bible and its composition.  I would also recommend considering the "intensive" section if they offer that again; it doesn't require extra assignments but the discussions were great.
The learning-to-work ratio of this is unreal. It's not hard, but I learned so so much. One of the few classes where I loved doing the assignments and readings.
This class is exactly what you think it is. If you have any background in the Bible, you can get an "A" without doing the readings or attending lecture. That being said, Kugel is fantastic, and I seriously recommend reading it. Cohen is also a charismatic lecturer, so try to attend lecture when you can.
This class is a fantastic gen ed! Definitely a great way to fulfill the CB requirement. Not a huge workload and deals with really interesting subject material. You take out of it what you put in. If you really want to learn about the Hebrew Bible, there is a ton of material with which you can engage. If you are trying to balance your schedule, you can also be less engaged and still do well.
It is a great class in which you truly learn a lot
This is a good course to take as an introduction to the Bible whether you ascribe to the Christian or Jewish perspective. It is also a satisfactory Gen Ed.
The exams take a good amount of preparation and the papers take some time to write though you can get feedback from your TF before turning it in. Cohen is interesting and friendly but not extraordinary. You will learn as much as you put in. There are probably better CB courses out there though this will definitely be a fine way to fill the requirement if you're struggling to.
They are making it harder and less interesting every semester
It's a stress-free easy Gen-Ed that is also actually interesting.
This class is fairly easy and you will learn cool things. Be warned that the final is harder than the midterm!
This course is a rare combination of interesting and very manageable workload-wise. A great gen ed for senior year and you will come away having learned a lot
This class is very interesting while having little workload.
Do the readings on time, don't wait until the exams.
It's CB, study of the past, and "English" for medical school prerequisites. Take it! If you want to, you can learn tons about the Bible and how Judaism came to be such a powerful cultural institution; if you don't, the exams are fairly easy and the essays straightforward and you can coast right through.
Fantastic course, no matter your interests you will enjoy it.
Take it - it's interesting, it's not much work, and the tests are more than doable.  Prof Cohen is also interesting in lecture, section is flexible in terms of recording attendance (can chat with TF for five minutes and get out of it but it's good)
Painless way to fulfill gen ed. Good punch class. Decently interesting, not much work but the work you do is worth it. I'd recommend it
It's easy, but not as easy as people make it out to be.  Read: you will actually have to study for the exams if you want to do well.  That being said, it's still pretty easy and Prof. Cohen is a great lecturer who is really passionate about the course material.
This is a wonderful class if you truly want to take the Bible seriously, and learn to analyze from an academic standpoint.
A great way to fulfill Culture and Belief.
The class in an excellent opportunity to learn about the Hebrew Bible. However, thorough learning would have to be through personal initiative since the coursework will not exactly demand it of you.
Put in the effort and you will actually get something out of this class.  The people who just try and get by will get by but won't actually be better off after the class is done.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It's easy, it's interesting, and you actually learn things you might care about.
This course is really good but you must stay with the material to understand the different material because there is a lot of different angles: different authors, different perspectives/religions, etc.
Offers a really interesting perspective on the Bible and how that affects thinking and traditions today.
This class is very interesting and not too strenuous.
This class has great section leaders
take. this. class. take it take it take it. it's so easy to fit into your life because of the taped lectures, and you still learn a ton.
It is a great class. The material is easy to learn, and the lectures are very interesting. Assignments and tests aren't too bad either.
Take this course to experience professor Cohen's lecturing skills.
This is a great, accessible introduction to the Hebrew Bible and should be required for those who want a good understanding of Western cultural/religious traditions/origins. It's good if you haven't had any exposure to the Old Testament and want to read and understand some of the stories and also gain some knowledge about the way modern scholars study the bible. It's not too much work (~4 hours a week I'd say) so it's a good Gen Ed to take!
Will exceed expectations. I dreaded AIU/CB general education courses but found myself interested in the material taught in CB 39. Professor Cohen succeeds in designing a Gen Ed course, not a religion course that ensnares unprepared students (as most AIU/CB classes do).
If you do the reading, you will get much more out of this course.
This course exposes students to most of the Hebrew Bible.  However, the course has strong Jewish and modern slant.  The translation used of the Hebrew Bible is significantly different from other common translations (e.g. King James) and key words are translated in ways which support the Jewish interpretation of the Bible (e.g. "young woman" instead of "virgin"). 
     In addition, the course claims to allow students to choose any interpretation along the spectrum from Modern Bible Scholars to Traditionalists.  However, in fact, the course and professor strongly support the Modern Bible Scholar approach.  While interesting academically, this approach involves many claims which contradict key aspects of the religious and traditionalist approaches (e.g. whether the Bible is true, whether miracles actually happened).  In particular,  the essay questions on the exams are most easily answered by supporting the modern approach.  This presents a serious dilemma for students who wish to approach the Bible from a traditionalist or religious perspective: should they regurgitate beliefs contrary to their own to get a better grade?
Day to day is easy, but writing the papers and studying for the tests takes time. However, those papers and tests are fair and plausible to score highly on if one studies hard.
Definitely take this Gen Ed. The workload is very manageable, the knowledge is useful, and the TF staff truly wants you to do well in the course.
If you are looking for an easy gen-ed that is still interesting, take this course.
This course has a reputation for being easy, but you also learn a lot for the amount of time you put into it. I really enjoyed this course.
don't take unless you have to. a snooze.
Take this class, but study for it.
Great class. Study a lot for midterms and finals. Don't let yourself fall too far behind.
Be careful. Many students will tell you how easy this course is...it is only easy (grade-wise) if you put in the right amount of effort. Luckily, I took this class pass-fail and put in very little work. I easily would have ended up with a terrible grade with the amount of work I put in; the course requires a lot of memorization for the midterm and final, but if you put in the work, you will get an A.
This class has a very high ratio of interesting things learned to time spent working. The lectures are interesting and engaging.
A really great class! You learn a great deal, especially given the amount of daily preparation needed.
Great Class
I think that this is a good class if you have some interest in the Bible and the history behind both its origins and its interpretations. It provides a great background to the cultural conversation about the Bible and religion. Exams are not difficult, and Prof. Cohen and the TFs work to help you succeed.
Not too much work, not that interesting however.
One of the easiest classes you will take at Harvard, in the best way possible. The lectures are relatively engaging, and if you've never seriously read the Bible before, it is definitely illuminating. Professor Cohen is funny, and the class is structured pretty well. I'm really glad I decided to take this course - it's the perfect fourth class if you have other difficult courses.
If you are looking for an easy yet interesting gen-ed, this one fulfills both those standards.
Make sure you get a good TF and read the material every once in a while.
You will get out of the course as much as you put in.
This class is a great course for those who are interested in learning more about the bible and how to interpret it. Very minimal workload, TF's are great, and Shaye Cohen wants the students to do well! Take it as an elective or for C&B credit.
Be ready to do some reading (aka get ready to read a lot of the bible)
This class is interesting and is a good overview of the Hebrew Bible.  The papers are straightforward and the exam material is all given to you before hand so it's just a lot of memorization.
Easy if you try, a little bit harder to do well if you don't
The course is not as easy as I thought it would be, but if you put in a decent amount of effort on a regular basis, you can definitely do well. It's a great way to learn about the old testament, which is at the core of both Christianity and Judaism. The papers you have to write are really fun and free form.
Great Gen Ed, it's super chill and the essay assignments are actually kinda fun. Take it. Work load wise, I recommend it unreservedly. It was a life saver to have this as a 4th course this semester.
Great course. Was interested in the Hebrew Bible - but how can one not be as one of the founding texts of the West, so often invoked, so rarely analyzed through more than one interpretation. The course takes two main slants on the Hebrew Bible - (1) how the traditional Jewish readers  interpreted or might have interpreted parts of it, (2) how secular modern Biblical scholarship  (MBS) interprets it. Also, a little bit, how it fits into Christianity. Good for believers and non-believers, though the slant is meant to focus on MBS. The intro video lays out the course so watch that and decide for yourself.
study for tests
This is a great class. Not too challenging, but still very interesting perspectives on the Bible.
I would definitely recommend this class. This was an easy class to balance my schedule. Professor Cohen gives you all the material necessary to do well on the exams beforehand, and the essays are painless to write - you get the option of submitting a draft to you TF.
A class that you get as much as you put in. Very little effort is needed to get by, but if you wish to learn a lot, that opportunity is also present if you work hard.
Take this course! SERIOUSLY do it! Professor Cohen is a great lecturer and you'll learn so much. Most Harvard classes can take lessons from this in terms of how to structure their course.
This was by far my favorite class this fall, it was excellent! If you are at all interested in the Bible or Judaism or Christianity or even just want to fulfill your Culture & Belief requirement I highly recommend this class. It is not too stressful or overwhelming (though the midterm and final do require a significant amount of preparation) and you will learn a lot! Even if you come into the class with previous religious knowledge of the Bible you will find that this course examines it from a scholarly perspective which is very different from the traditional religious context. No matter your beliefs this is a good survey of the Hebrew Bible and provides helpful perspective on the range of scholarly opinions about the Bible.
Fantastic class - Professor Cohen is great
It is a good class for an easy grade, just study for the exams
This class is incredible! Professor Cohen is so nice and makes funny jokes. He is honest about to class being easy (which it is if you study the materials given to you). I highly recommend this course!
This is an awesome class! A must take for the Culture and Belief requirement.
An interesting class without an overwhelming amount of work.  Accessible to students of all religious backgrounds.
I absolutely loved this class!  I originally only took it because my roommate was taking it and I needed a gen ed, but I actually really enjoyed this class, and it was an interesting take on how we think of the Bible.
a really straightforward course where you just need to memorize a lot to do well.
I took this class to fulfill the Culture and Belief gen ed and it was an amazing decision! Not only was the class fascinating, but also it was not demanding. It is a great class to take as a gen ed along with other tough courses. I was able to take a lot away from this course without putting in a lot of time.
Very informative especially if you lack broad perspective on the Bible
The course was really easy but at the same time I feel I learned quite a lot about being more open / objective about the Bible instead of believing things I was taught word-for-word growing up. Lectures are somewhat optional, and my section was super chill which was great too. All told I probably put in 20-30 hours of time outside of class/section doing readings/papers/studying for exams so it's really not that much work.
This is a fairly easy course for those with prior familiarity with the Old Testament/Hebrew Bible, BUT it is also extremely interesting. You should definitely take it to fulfill your Culture and Belief requirement.
There is a wide range of students in this class, and I think that variety allows each student to get something unique out of the course.
Not a difficult class, section is really interesting as is a lot of the course material.  He's a good lecturer but often the class goes at a really slow pace
Anyone who, like me, has some vague interest in the Judeo-Christian religion/culture is strongly advised to take this course. It helped me with my spiritual journey, in case you are one of those people as well.
This class was the perfect gen ed! If you still need a culture and belief take this one.  The teaching staff is great (and very lenient on grading) and the tests/papers are easy and great.  This class was the right amount of work for a gen ed and I still learned a lot.
A great course. I took it as an elective and do not regret it. Lectures are fun, sections are informative, and assignments are fair.
This class is a low time commitment, especially if you have background knowledge of the Bible. If you keep up with the readings, the class is great.
This class is good for a fourth class that you can't spend much time on, but when you do the material is extremely interesting and enlightening as to how you view the Bible. I did not go to many lectures and had/have to cram for exams but it is doable. Then again, I am Jewish, so I know some of the stories/names already, which helps my memory for what we learn in this class.
This is an awesome class and you can get a lot out of it if you do the readings and really listen to what is being presented in lecture. This course is not difficult to do well in, they want you to do well and enjoy learning about the bible.
This class is somehow able to give you a thorough introduction to a new topic without a strenuous amount of work.
This is an extremely well-organized course on a topic of great significance taught by an engaging professor.  Every person, religious or not, should at least be somewhat familiar with the thesis and discoveries of modern biblical scholarship.
I enjoyed this course thoroughly.
This Gen Ed involves more work than it may seem. There's a lot of material covered in both the midterm and the final. Shaye Cohen is a great lecturer though!
Go to lecture, pay attention, read the material, it's all very interesting, but you will lose the good experience of the class if you dont pay attention to lecture
This class is really interesting!  The class is a great painless way to fulfill the CB gened.  I loved this class and would recommend it to anyone interested in learning about the Hebrew Bible.
It's a really interesting course that will most likely engage you in looking at the Hebrew Bible/origins of Judaism and Christianity in a new, critical and historical light.
This is a very good Gen Ed to take, the workload is very low, while the class itself is interesting. You'll learn a ton, even if you think you know the Bible well.
This course is great. You learn a lot in an enjoyable setting. You never feel super stressed outall of the expectations are laid out from the beginning. I also feel like what you take from this class is largely dependent on how much you put in. You can get by doing the bare minimumstudying terms for the test and writing essays without much thoughts. However, if you do the readings, attend lectures (or watch them online!), and spend time struggling with the texts, I guarantee you will learn a great deal. Even if you have already read the bible, you will learn a new perspective that may change the way you view the text, or at least challenge your current view providing food for thought.
This class shows you a way to look at the Bible that many other people do not have the chance to see or think about.
Great class if you're looking for some answers about Jewish and christian religions
This class is really good but make sure you review for final and midterm a good amount.
Great course for an interesting Gen Ed! Very manageable work load, interesting themes, and it's something everyone should know about!
It is a very interesting class that is structured to allow you to succeed.  Cohen's lectures are effectively interesting and the TF's are awesome
If you're Christian, hold on closely to your faith. This course will challenge your faith and make it stronger, if you entrust God to keep you through it.
Wonderful class. The material is presented in an interesting and understandable way even for those new to the subject. The staff is enthusiastic about the subject and cares about its students. The topics of the papers are not very specific so you will have a ton of room to write about what interests you and the staff is incredibly helpful during the editing process (you are required to hand in a first draft) so you are very likely to improve. Lectures and section are interesting and you will find yourself naturally participating because of the warm environment created by  your TF.
Good way to fulfill CB, especially for those with any bible background.
This is an awesome class- very low work load and stress load. The material is very interesting despite your background with the bible.
If you're looking for a laid-back, awesome, yet somehow-still-relatively-educational-for-how-little-work-you-do-outside-of-class type of class, this is the class for you. Dr. Cohen is really nice and knowledgeable, and if you are lucky enough to get Yoni as your TF, you will have the perfect fifth class. Fulfills a Gen Ed and Study of the Past... can't ask for more honestly. It was a great experience, and if you are worried about a stressful semester, this is a great class to take.
if you grew up and learned in a religious school that taught the Bible you should be more than fine for this class
