The class itself is pretty good - interesting material and low work load - but my teaching fellow was terrible and made my experience in the class rather difficult.
This class is amazing. Lecture is really interesting, section is also really cool when you go to the museum and stuff.  Also, the thought logs and final project are great assignments that allow you to get involved in the material and analysis of photography without being overwhelming. The thought log also helps you to learn the material slowly and constantly instead of really quickly all at once for an exam.
really fun and interesting class with really cool readings if you're at all into art
History of Photography was certainly not my most difficult course, but it didn't quite live up to the hype of being a painless Gen Ed. First of all, the class currently has no quizzes, exams or papers. So currently the bulk of your grade rests in section participation and Thought Logs, which are weekly summaries and analyses of a set of readings that you later compile and revise for a final grade. The readings are often over 150 pages long and some can be very dense and hard to understand, and then you're asked to summarize the main arguments in each and compare them in 350 words. Each week. The final project is presentation about whatever interests you--this is actually pretty low-stress since all you do is write a casually-worded paper that goes along with a slideshow of photographs. Lecture is pretty boring, especially the first half of the semester which is more or less all about daguerreotypes and early photography, but it picks up towards the end. I liked section, especially since it was a lot better at explaining the readings than lecture, but I think it depends on which TF you get.
Really interesting material. Really interesting professor who brings a lot of his own background to his discussion of the material.Basically, one thought log a week based on the readings, section once a week (often in the museum, which is fantastic).The only thing I really took issue with is that the first "draft" of the thought log is ungraded, and then each six weeks you combine the revised version to submit for your grade. My TF didn't really evaluate my thought logs in the first place, so while I tried to incorporate discussion of the material from section and lecture, I got hammered on the graded logs because of stuff that could have been avoided. Overall, a fun, easy class!
It's not as easy as you think. The weekly thought logs and the readings that accompany them (mandatory) take quite a long time so don't underestimate the workload. Other than that it's pretty interesting class.
Extremely easy class as long as you do the readings
The time commitment is not a lot. The topics are interesting. You can be as involved as you want.
Readings can be long at times, but definitely not necessary to read all of it to do well. Definitely low workload still. Ended up feeling a bit dissatisfied though, not entirely sure what I learned this semester.
This class has the perfect amount of work for a gen ed as you do not get bogged down in the details but get a general impression of how photography played a part in history.  The weekly thought logs allow you to stay engaged in the material without being overwhelmed by papers or longer assignments.
Really interesting and not a tough workload at all -- it is definitely more philosophical and abstract than I expected, though. Also no real artistic analysis, which was a bit frustrating for me.
You have to enjoy history and photography
Keep up with the readings, lectures not as necessary.
A very rewarding course. I may not recommend taking it freshman fall like I did because I had no experience in college writing.
This is one of those GOLD CB gen ed finds. Maybe a time commitment of 4 hours a week, including the 2 hrs of lecture and 1hr of section. The material is somewhat interesting, especially in the first and last parts, and the grading is purely sections, small written responses (the other 1hr time) and a final presentation - no tests. You'll learn some cool stuff about the history of photography and bang out that CB requirement.
This course is a great, fairly easy way to fulfill this Gen Ed.  It's super interesting and relevant.  Sometimes the reading and thought logs feel like busy work but just power through them quickly so you can focus on the lectures and engaging in section which is really beneficial.
If you are interested in art history you will enjoy this class.
Very manageable.
If you're looking for a great culture & belief gen ed, definitely take this course!!! It's really interesting and very applicable to today's world, since we all interact with photographs on a daily basis. Furthermore, the workload is manageable, and the lectures are great. Professor Kelsey is very funny and engaging. I had an incredible experience in this course and recommend it to anyone who might like learning about photography!
It's a very easy Gen-Ed, but you really won't be able to get through the readings, thought logs, or final project (which is very time-extensive) if you don't find something from the material to engage with.
The course is deceptively more work than it appears. Though they assign one 350 word thought log a week, often they give 100 pages of reading to do it. Do not take this class just because it is a gen-ed, unless the material really interests you.
Fun, informative course in a very important field so involved in our daily lives.
An easy class where you will actually learn.  Especially if you are interested minimally in the arts, you will have no difficulty being interested.
This is an easy and interesting way to fulfill CB, so if you're interested in the topic, I highly recommend. This class is such a gem and I really liked the lectures. But only take it if you have a previous interest in photography! Otherwise you will not enjoy this class as much as others.
Only take the class if you REALLY love photography.
This class is a different way to learn about history. I decided to take this class solely to fulfill a Gen-ed requirement and I ended up enjoying the class. Professor Kelesy shows up to the lectures each day with enthusiasm and really makes the course interesting.
I really enjoyed taking this class. It is a really painless way to get your gen ed out of the way. The course load was super light, but the course was still really interesting. The lectures were engaging and I definitely learned a lot and gained a greater appreciation for photography.
This class requires a lot of self-motivation, as thought logs are only checked twice the entire semester and the final project is entirely solitary research. However, if you are interested in art history or photography, you will find it very easy to stay interested and engaged. Very fun and culturally relevant course.
make sure that each thought log is a good starting point for the midterm
If you want a class that is going to require a consistently moderate amount of work over the semester and a genuine section component to discuss the readings/content of the week, this gen ed is a gem. It'll also get you out to the Harvard Art Museums more then a few times during the semester to see photos how they're meant to be seen.
It's a relatively low-workload class with not a lot of overwhelming assignments, and it's one that you don't need to worry about falling behind in. However, it is bland and I found it a bit tiring to keep showing up to sections.
Having a great TF matters a lot.
Hope for a good TF and you should be set.
You will actually need to do the readings EACH WEEK to be able to do well on the thought log. Its not easy to skim and write well for these.  Also you cant have technology in class so don't take the course if you plan on writing emails through every lecture.  The course itself was interesting and I would recommend it! Interesting lectures, interesting assignments.
This was a very well-taught and planned-out course on what in my opinion turned out to be a tremendously boring subject.
Do not save thought logs until the last minute.
This class is absolutely amazing. The lectures are engaging and fun, Professor Kelsey loves the material and talks about it in a way that excites passion in you. If you're lucky enough to have Sam Ewing as your TF, you'll be engaging in thoughtful sections all semester and always feel supported/encouraged by him.
Overall, I think this course was quite enjoyable for a GenEd and allowed me to explore a completely different subject area. This class does not have any tests, midterms, or finals - only weekly responses to readings and a final project. I think that while some of the work was tedious and a bit like busy work, this class was able to change my perspective about art. I find myself automatically analyzing art pieces and that's a pretty cool mindset to have.Lectures really vary in how interesting they are - I suppose it depends on the content that we're covering that week. The mandatory sections some times are a bit slow, but we do have some opportunities to conduct visual analyses or to debate the readings a bit. Keep in mind that this is the first year they had this structure so the next year might be a bit different in organization as they're still trying to figure out what works best.
It is a great Gen Ed and, while it is not a large time commitment, you learn so much from Professor Kelsey.
Very interesting course if you're interested in photography - not taking photos but rather analyzing them, as an art history course.
As someone with no background in anything of this nature, I found it a great way to fulfill C&B. Probably the model of exactly how a gen-ed course should be: not exceedingly taxing but does require you to engage with the material and take something you dont often think about and consider it in a totally different way. It was really fun to take a look at some topic totally out of my comfort zone, but not feel burdened by the intensity of a course as if it were designed for art students. It isn't hard to keep up with the readings and do the thought logs, and if you do you will actually walk away from the course with some new (and for me, very different) knowledge and yet not have sacrificed weeks of your life toiling at it.
This is a great Gen Ed to fulfill the CB requirement. You'll learn more about famous photographs and their historical contexts, and the trips to the Harvard Art Museum to see some of these photographs in person are really great. The workload is pretty easy, and you get a lot out of the class for what you put in. I really enjoyed the class and wish it continued on for another semester!
This course is a fantastic introduction to the history of photography. Although i am an art history concentrator, no background in art history was necessary to take the course. Professor Kelsey's lectures are by far the highlight of the course. Sections, as with any gen-ed, are pretty hit or miss. Also, because so many people signed up for the course, I had a TF who hadn't planned on teaching that semester and seemed a bit unsure of the material which was frustrating at times. If you do all of the readings, there is a lot of material, but you could probably get by without doing them all. The final project is actually really fun (if you like photography and art history), and the course as a whole is pretty low stress! If you end up taking the course, I would advise you to really take advantage of the lectures and material - don't just skip out because you can. This class is a great experience and if you engage in it, you will come away having learned a lot!
You will get as much out of the song as you put into it. Section is amazing when it is at the museum! Beware that the grading is a bit harsh. Not much work.
This class is a really great way to get rid of the CB requirement! Professor Kelsey's lectures are really engaging and fun! In a big lecture class it is often difficult to engage students but Professor Kelsey does a really great job of asking questions to the class and encouraging class participation! Overall this class is really stress-free and there is no final exam!
This class was amazing! Kelsey is an incredible lecturer who believes in learning for the sake of learning. There are no tests. His lectures are purely meant for you to soak in the readings and appreciate photography and its history. Also, you get to experience famous works up close and just share your opinions. This is a wonderful class that I highly recommend!
The course is manageable but not particularly engaging unless you're really passionate about photography and art history.  I would suggest looking elsewhere if you're just seeking General Education credit; the expectations of the course are not clearly outlined.
This class is really interesting! It has a great format (no exams!) that encourages the development of sophisticated analysis skills over the memorization of content. The lectures and subject material are really engaging. While it definitely sparked my interest in the field of Art History, the class does not try to convince you to enter the field, and it is a great Gen Ed to take.
This class is going to change the way you view the world. With the rise of social media and photography being woven into our daily lives, this class makes you realized just how much photography can influence your actions and how you think about others.
If you are at all interested in photography and need a painless way to fulfill study of the past and culture and belief, take this class
This class is fantastic!!
This is a very interesting class if you have any interest in photography or history in general. The thought logs make up a large proportion of your grade, and while they sound like a very open needed assignment, the TFs actually have very specific expectations. However, the instructors are all very aware of the confusion and worked to make the expectations for the second set of thought logs clearer. I am sure that the expectations will be much clearer the next time this course runs. The final project (a fifteen minute presentation) sounds very scary, but all you need to do is read a seven page paper aloud. It actually ended up being a lot of fun to research my own topic.
Though the content of the course can be interesting, a lot of the best parts are buried in readings which are either inaccessible to the average student taking this as a Gen Ed, or so long that almost no-one takes the time to appreciate it fully. Without a good section leader I would have been completely lost in this course.
This class is very fascinating, especially if you have an interest in photography.  It's very heavy on the history, but it is a good class to take, especially for someone who really isn't artistic.
I'd definitely recommend this course to fulfill C&B or even as an elective! The lectures are great, and the weekly casual writing assignments on the readings (~500 words of whatever you want to write about) make the workload completely manageable. The final project was really fun, and you get a lot of freedom. Section was also often a museum visit where you got to analyze photographs as a group.
easy, boring if you don't care about history of visual arts (does not include digital age)
Although there is no final, the final project definitely does require a significant amount of your time! The sections in the museums are pretty awesome.
This class is a relatively painless Gen Ed. Prof. Kelsey is an engaging lecturer, and he encourages student input and interaction during lectures. Sometimes the readings are esoteric and excessive, but section does help to clarify any confusion with the readings. Weekly assignments just include a 350-word thought log entry, with a final presentation at the end of the semester. Overall, I highly recommend the class if you are even remotely interested in photography, or if you want a relatively stress-free CB Gen Ed class.
This course is for those who are interested in discussing the political and cultural implications of photographs throughout history. Many of our discussions revolved around historical events at the times that certain photographs were taken. Fortunately, visual analysis of the photographs was not the focus of the class. It is almost as if Professor Kelsey cared personally about expanding our viewpoints and exposing us to new ideas. His lectures were coherent and very to-the-point. Definitely go to lecture for this class. It is almost impossible to do the weekly assignments without going to lecture, because section, lecture, and the readings for the class are so closely intertwined. This class is for students who like taking organized and relevant courses with clear expectations taught by bright and passionate teaching staff.
This is a wonderful Gen Ed! It could be a great introduction to art history or to new sources for social and cultural history. Professor Kelsey is fantastic lecturer.
It's an amazing way to view the world through a different lens and truly see photography's impact on culture and politics, throughout history, now, and into the future.
Take this course! It is stimulating and fun, and also an opportunity to benefit from the Fogg.
This class is amazing and changes the way you think about photography. Nicole is also an awesome TF who gives excellent feedback on your assignments and really wants you to succeed in the class.
The assignments are very ambiguous and do not have a clear direction of what is expected. The students get penalized due to the lack of instruction in the assignments.
It is a very good way to satisfy the CB GenEd and also to learn more about photography.
It gets better as the semester goes on
Unless you have a background in art and architecture, do not take this. The class expects you to be able to analyze critically as an experienced art history concentrator without teaching you how to do so.
The thought logs were interesting; the final project was great because it allowed you to explore and research independently.
This course is great.  Professor Kelsey discusses many different aspects of photography.  Both he and the rest of the teaching staff are available for any questions you may have.  Moreover, everyone involved with the course enjoys the material, which makes lecture and section more exciting.  The final project was also exciting and interesting!
Not the most interesting, but a good way to fill the CB30 requirement. Professor Kelsey is really excited about the topic, which is not a given in a gen ed. There are tons of reading requirements, but I was able to do just fine and get something out of the course by skimming the beginning and ends and going to section and some lectures.
This class is really interesting! I would highly recommend taking it. The course load is very manageable and the readings and assignments are enjoyable, not just busy work. The lectures are engaging - I felt like I learned a totally new way to engage with photographs, a subject that may already seem familiar.
Professor Kelsey is a very kind teacher who clearly loves working with students.  His enthusiasm for the subject matter is contagious.  However, the Thought Logs are challenging - only 350 words each, initially, and penetrating analysis is expected.  This is hard when the readings are numerous and/or dense.  I enjoyed the class immensely, especially sections in the museum, but I would say be prepared to devote a significant amount of time each week to writing assignments.
If anything, take this class to listen to the wonderful lectures given by Professor Kelsey! He really made the material quite interesting to learn, and it was amazing to see how intertwined photography was with other aspects of society, such as history, culture, science, etc, since its invention. It's an amazing gened course with a very light commitment. Just make sure you know exactly what to do for the Thought Logs, as I didn't know initially and got burned on the first grading.
n/a
If you have any interest at all in the realm of photography, I would highly recommend this course to you.
The assignments did not make any sense but we're not too bad when you did them
You don't need to attend lecture to do fine in this class.
Is a fun course that might ask a lot of work but doesn't necessarily require it all. Can really apply a lot of the lessons to life, more than just analyzing photography.
This is the best gen Ed I took at Harvard. kelsey is a fantastic lecturer and the assignments are super easy. Perfect balance of interesting coursework and laid back work load.
Professor Kelsey is really a fascinating individual. His commitment to the liberal arts education is unparalleled at this school and ultimately compelled me to take the course. This is one of the few courses that have really reassured the values of a liberal arts education for me. In the process of learning from his philosophy, I also learned interesting things about photography. My main take away is an appreciation gained for the art, as well as a much better eye for viewing it.
Not well done at the section level. Poorly communicated expectations
I would take this course if you are interested in photography beyond just instagram. It's an art history course, so know what you're getting into.
Great Class
I think that it was a class where no experience was necessary and the faculty was incredibly easy to access despite it being such a large Gen Ed class.
This class is great, a very interesting subject and an engaging teacher who is really passionate about his field. If you are interested in photography, it won't only teach you the history but you'll also gain a deeper understanding of the aesthetics and the art through being immersed in so many great photographs.
take this class!! not hard at all, kelsey is a great teacher, i learned a lot.
Pay attention to the thought logs. Nice without a final. Final presentation was easily done.
I loved this class. If you have an interest in history and photography, this is definitely the class to take. It's not very demanding but the work that they make you do really makes you think and ponder about new perspectives in photography.
Great professor, fun material, structured to help everyone be successful.
This is an AMAZING class. I loved every minute of it. Take it when you're taking other hard classes or less-motivating classes. Going to lecture and hearing Professor Kelsey talk was so interesting and enriching. I have become a better person because of this course -- more cultured as a person.
It's a fantastic class. Take it! Professor Kelsey is a gem.
This is a great course; a little more work than I had anticipated, but the readings are interesting enough that the work isn't a big deal. Professor Kelsey is an excellent lecturer, and the assignments are not super high stress.  I would definitely recommend this course.
Put effort into thought logs - doing so every week results in a much easier time for the final project and the two assignment submissions.
Boring material and strict grading
You learn a lot about photography and the role it has played. You learn to think differently about this phenomenon that we are all very familiar with.
Informative, fun, and easy. Gem ed
A great class for anybody who's interested in learning about photography, how it has changed and what we don't realize about it. Incredibly easy (almost too easy, actually) yet still worthwhile. Kelsey is a phenomenal lecturer and I went to all his lectures even though they never took attendance. Do your readings (they're easy and short), write your thought logs, participate in section, and you'll be fine!
Take it - its really easy, great way to get your cb gened out of the way. Also, its pretty interesting. Kelsey is a really good lecturer.
Interesting class that ends up being a monstrous amount of reading.
Pretty easy gen ed. Not too much work, but you have to do well on the assignments since there are hardly any. The final project was very doable and very interesting.
Prof. Kelsey is a fantastic lecturer! The final project was really interesting and enjoyable as well.
This Gen Ed course has probably been the most rewarding Gen Ed I have taken at Harvard. The workload is very light, but the material covered is interesting.
This course was very interesting.  I loved the material and got a lot out of the course without having to spend too much time on it.
The readings were more work than expected, and so were the thought logs (ended up being basically long paper for the midterm and final thought logs).  Sometimes the class material was dry, so make sure you're actually interested in photography if you're going to take the class.  It was definitely cool to be in the art museums looking at the works.
This class is not as good as you may think it would be. The grading is much more difficult than it needs to be. Overall, I would not recommend.
This class requires little work and should be taken by students who are genuinely interested in learning more about the history of photography. Weekly assignments are informative.
The readings are helpful when it comes to test time.  Do them, even if it just means skimming them for meaning.  Also, make sure you absolutely know which author said what, because that is absolutely necessary for the tests.
I think it's one of the most fascinating classes I've taken at Harvard.
I think this course gives a great introduction to photography and its social impact. I have learned to read visual cues much better. This course has allowed me to understand the photographs around me better and has given me the tools to evaluate photographs critically.
Kelsey is a great professor and makes lectures so enjoyable because he knows how to teach the material. It was a very interesting course especially for those with an interest in photography.
It's excellent to be aware of how the images you are constantly bombarded with in daily life function and to be critical of how they manipulate information and affect viewers.
It is a great class, especially if you have a great TF like Maggie Gates.
CB30 was a fun and interesting class that expanded my views of photography and its historical significance. The class is great for visual learners and Professor Kelsey is passionate and extremely knowledgeable about the course material. However, the lectures can feel a bit long and packed with information, so students who have trouble paying attention in lecture should avoid this class. Furthermore, readings are not required to get by week to week, but necessary for exams, so less dedicated students will find themselves having to complete 1000+ pages of reading in preparation for the exams. All in all, I enjoyed the class and had a positive experience and would recommend it to everyone, granted they are proactive workers and capable of keeping up with Professor Kelsey's quick speech during lecture.
Going to lecture is both worth it and necessary to get a good grade without working really hard.
Photography is something that is so ubiquitous that we often do not consider its impact on the way our society functions and what it means about truth, time, law, family, and many other things. This course covers them all.
The workload is light but the exams are really difficult.
Prof. Kelsy is great and the lectures are quite interesting.  He's entertaining and makes the course enjoyable.  Also, I really enjoyed the material.  It isn't too much work either.
This is the worst class I have taken at Harvard. If you like photography, run far, far away. It will make you doubt everything you ever liked about photography.
This is a great class to learn about the history of photography.
The midterms and finals were unfairly hard.
The class covered some very interesting topics, but was not cohesively structured and a little all over the place.
It's not for everyone, but if you think you might like an HAA course, take it. It's fun, it's informative, it's actually real world practical in a surprising way. It's not an easy core though.
It really helped me to be more critical of the images that are fed to us on a daily basis. It changed the way I look at advertising and press photography.
Writing assignments are vague and poorly explained/guided. Lecture is very interesting, but taking this class for a requirement is difficult because you must already be able to think in a very (sometimes outrageously) abstract way about art interpretation.
It was an interesting class, but the assignments were difficult to understand, and should be improved.
lectures are really interesting, and the artists you're exposed to are great, but there's very little grounding in reality (esp during the modernism unit) and exams are very difficult
This course is so interesting and fun to take. It teaches material that you normally would not think about. Also, the professor speaks very well and gives amazing lectures.
This course will make you a more literate viewer of photographs, but it will probably not change your life.
Robin Kelsey is a gifted and enthralling lecturer, and genuinely cares about education and his students. The reading is relatively short and painless, and the assignments, too. Which is great, so you can focus on digesting all the awesome photos! I never appreciated visual aesthetic media before this course (I was always the antisy-est at museums), but now I can really look at a photo and sincerely find beauty in it. The feeling is SO RAD!
This class requires a suspension of belief in many respects and often makes you question whether the images are just being analyzed for the sake of being analyzed. If you don't buy into the whole "the light is coming from the right which implies...." etc etc, do not take this class.
Until it works out the kinks subject-wise, I would hesitate to recommend the course as it is not really about photography theory like I had hoped.
I would tell them this class makes you really think deeply about art and you should be prepared for that.
It's a good Core or Gen. Ed class, just some of the concepts would fly over your head, and the pace is extraordinarily fast. The final is difficult, and keep up with the readings, but pay a lot of attention when Professor Kelsey discusses them. Also, make study groups with your section - our section was particularly excellent at that.
This course, as interesting as it was, is NOT a painless way to fulfill a Gen-Ed requirement.  Speaking as someone with no background in photography going into the course, I found it a struggle.  This obviously cut down on my ability to enjoy the class.  With that said, Professor Kelsey is absolutely phenomenal.  If you have a background in photography (or want to take this class pass/fail for non-Gen Ed purposes) I would highly recommend it.
Professor Kelsey is an excellent lecturer, and he presents a thoughtful argument on every topic. The class is a great introduction to photography and doesn't require any previous experience.
This class is interesting and requires little concrete work (the readings are usually pretty light), but essays and tests are graded harshly.
Do the reading and go to office hours. Also, don't multitask in lecture. let your mind wander and really look at the images presented. slurp coffee and go a little crazy if you have to. but focus and put yourself in the space of the image and you will see new things.
You should be interested in photography and comfortable with theoretical material to enjoy this course.
It is really enjoyable!
Professor Kelsey is incredibly charismatic and a great lecturer. If you like photography, you will like the course. The new creative photographic project is a great addition and means that you can opt out of a research paper, which is a nice option to have.
lectures were really hard to follow, but the class had a light work-load and the project was fantastically enjoyable
It makes you think about pictures in a whole new way.
It is extremely interesting subject matter taught by a wonderful professor; the course's kinks will most likely be worked out over time.
If you're looking for an easy way to get rid of a gen ed class, this is definitely not your class.  If you're looking for an absolutely fascinating look at the way that photography and human history have interacted with each other, this is a great class for you.  If you're willing to work hard and you want to take a stab at art history and hear from a fantastic lecturer, this is a great class for you.
YOU MUST DO THE READINGS!
This is an excellent course that will actually give you insight into photography. It isn't just useless knowledge, you will actually learn about topics that can you later converse about in real life. Additionally, Professor Kelsey's lectures are extremely interesting.
A really great class!
Lectures are absolutely amazing. Readings can be long and unpleasant. If you're the kind of person who is irritated by humanities "fuzziness," you will hate this course. If you're okay with a little bit of that, you will learn a lot.
Cool class. Very history based which was a bit of a turn-off for me, but very informative. The information will stick with you.
Take this course but realize that the readings are not optional.
I would tell them that if they can handle the intense jargonand obnoxious crit theorist namedroppers in sectionthat it's a relatively painless way to fulfill the Lit B core.
This course will change the way you look at photographs. You will always be entertained in lecture. There is not too much reading but the assignments are strictly (and fairly) graded.
The lectures are great and there isn't much work during normal weeks, but the exams are difficult.  On the whole, the whole idea behind the class can seem sort of artificial and insignificant, but it definitely makes for good cocktail party conversation.
If you attend lecture and take good notes, you can usually get by pretty well without having to do the readings, at least in the first half. In the second half the readings are a little more in depth, and it helps to stay on top of them. I found lectures to be a calming and relaxing learning environment and would highly suggest them.
I learned a lot of photo history from this class, but you absolutely must show up and pay attention to all lectures. The tests are hard.
Exams can be unstructured/vague, but fine if you've done all the readings and can form well-supported arguments.
Really interesting subject, the lectures and section were both engaging and interesting. Covers a broad range of ideas that you would never have thought of before about photography, and the problems it faces with technology and representing the world.
I took this course as a senior, and it is one of my favorites.  There was just enough accountability that I kept up with the material and got a lot out of the class (section counts for a lot of your grade; it's really important to go to lecture because exams are open-notes), but the readings and workload were very manageable, and I never felt over-burdened.
There are better options out there.  It's an interesting topic, so if you need a culture and belief it's a fine choice.  But, just for fun, it's not worth it.
This is a great lecture course, featuring fascinating material that will change the way you look at images and think about photographs. Robin Kelsey is an amazing lecturer!
This course is a fairly easy Gen Ed that provides you with a good grasp on the major themes behind photography.  The lectures are interesting--you will actually want to go to them--and the photo project is a great alternative from a typical final research paper.
An interesting class. Be sure to take god notes, as they will be helpful on the exam.
The lectures could be a bit dry at times, and the midterm and final exams proved to be a bit difficult.
Good survey of the history of photography, and very easy to understand if you're not familiar with photography or art history.
The professor is excellent, and while the subject matter may be difficult to grasp sometimes, it is a history useful to have while analyzing photographs, especially in an age full of images.
The class deals with interesting and important material in an engaging way.
If you don't like the artsy, abstract kind of thinking, don't take this class. If you must take this class, then make sure you do the readings because you need them for the exam.  If you speak up in lecture, be prepared to be told your observation is "wrong" in a roundabout way.  Honestly, find another CB Gen Ed class.
Sometimes lectures are hard to follow along
You would not believe how relevant the material of this course will become to so many other disciplines (biology, history, chemistry, geology, gender studies, etc). It will also help you learn not only how important images are in our society but also how to read them critically.
Keep up with the reading. It's easy to put it off because there's really no consequences for not reading each week. But at the end, you'll find yourself with a lot if you don't keep up.
The professor is a lot of fun and makes the class a joy to go to.
One of t.he most engaging Core/Gen Ed classes I've taken at Harvard.
A solid class. Interesting material, good lectures, a great professor, and engaged TF's. I really enjoyed this class and the content of the course. Section was fantastic - I actually found it more enjoyable than lecture. It's not often you get to spend an hour on one photograph to discuss, engage with others, and puzzle out visual questions. The reading could be extrememly quick and easy or, more rarely, very complex and difficult to follow. Exams were also challenging. A great class all said.
This class presents you a very interesting look at great photographs. However, the discussions in class and section are the most contrived I've seen in any class. Never have I rolled my eyes more at what the students, TFs, and even the professor have said about certain photographs. This class has completely went undermined the mission of the General Education curriculum in my eyes and has shown me that 90% of thought in humanities classes lacks any substance/use.
I think you should definitely take this class!  Professor Kelsey is an excellent lecturer and the material is very interesting.  The sections are also really well-taught, and so I've come away from the course feeling like I learned a lot about the history of photography.
Professor Kelsey is an excellent lecturer, and this is a great introduction to the major figures in the history of photography. If you've taken upper-level seminars and tutorials in the history of art, though, you will probably find this course very easy.
This is probably my favorite class at Harvard. Prof. Kelsey is a wonderful lecturer - clear, engaging, and entertaining. The class is very well thought out: it's organized chronologically and each lecture focuses on a particular issue, artist or moment in the history of photography. There is not a huge amount of reading so it is easy to actually do all the reading (a rarity in many humanities classes!) and come to section prepared.
This class covers many topics in the history of photography and brings to your consciousness many of the important cultural photos that influence our pop culture.
This course is great!  It is an especially great opportunity for students who are interested in visual arts but who are looking for something that will allow them to explore it a bit more.
Robin Kelsey is a very engaging lecturer and I definitely learned a lot!
This is a great course to take to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement. While the workload is incredibly manageable, the topics covered in class are very interesting. Lectures and sections are very engaging, and Kelsey is a very entertaining professor.
This history of photography class made me really think about how the camera has evolved and changed our understanding of the world.  This is a history class that is quite open to interpretation, but provides a new lens for learning how the world changed and also provides new ways of viewing the current world.  Professor Kelsey is extremely insightful, funny, and very encouraging during lectures in hearing students' interpretations of the images he presents.  My section, led by Trevor, was one of the best sections of my life and acted as a forum for super interesting discussions about a ton of photographers and their visions.  You should really take time to do the readings because they become extremely important for both section discussions and exams, but they also really clarify lecture points. I enjoyed this class and recommend it to art history enthusiasts and students who want a generally painless but different class.
Overall it's a great class.  Professor Kelsey's lectures are good, the material is super interesting, and you'll definitely feel like you know a lot more about photography and art in general when you're done (I'm a CS concentrator, and I knew nothing of the sort coming in.)  It does get pretty artsy after the midterm when the class starts doing the more modern stuff, so watch out if you know your brain doesn't really work in that sort of way (mine doesn't).  There's a final project/essay, as well as a final exam.  I feel like they should do one or the other, especially considering the format of the final - 6 half-hour essays.
The course is delightful, and a wonderful introduction to art history (probably much better than HAA 10, in fact). Professor Kelsey is entertaining and engaging without being histrionic.
it's a great way to fulfill a gened and learn about photography in a new way! do the readings - they're fun to read anyways. the photo project rocks
This course is amazing! I suggest anyone with even the slightest interest in photography or art to take it!
if you really like thinking about photography and are really curious about it's long history in detail, then it's a great class. i think of myself as interested in photography but i didn't know all that background about how photography evolved since its invention, so it's good knowledge to have. and you get to think about images in a complex, interesting way at the same time
One of the classes that you'd not be bored at lectures at all.
I would definitely recommend this class as a way to fulfill the Culture and Belief Gen. Ed. requirement. You get the chance to look at and learn about a lot of photographs. I would also highly recommend, if you have any interest in photography, trying the photographic project for the final project, since it is a really cool way to fulfill a final project requirement.
If you enjoy photography and would like a creative outlet, this course and the substantial weight it places on the final project is perfect for you.
This course is amazing. Professor Kelsey is a fantastic lecturer and does an effective job of engaging the class. He generates great enthusiasm for the subject material, makes wonderful connections between time periods, and really forces students to think and grow. Just know that we focus on Western photography.
Great way to fulfill Culture and Belief requirement, interesting course material, wonderful professor and teaching fellows.
you should take this class if you're interested in learning how to interpret photography and put photographs in historical context.
This class is awesome --the professor is really funny and quirky and the material is really interesting.  Trevor is the best section leader I've had in my four years at Harvard and section is actually useful and not a waste of time (rare at Harvard and even rarer for a GenEd).  The photography project is fun --this class makes a great elective or CB.
Great lectures with interesting material.  Readings can sometimes be dense/ confusing.  Both the midterm and the final are open book. It is nice to have the option of doing a creative final project rather than a research paper.
This was the class I engaged with the most this semester. Very rewarding. Made me wish I had pursued a secondary in art history or VES.
Readings could be more than a little boring at time, but it gives a good overview at the history of photography and the lectures are interesting for the most part.
Professor Kelsey is great, and the sections for this course were helpful and painless. But if you aren't interested in art history/photography, consider taking a different course. This class double counted for my concentration and core, which is why I took it. I just found myself not interested in everything....there were some weeks, especially toward the end, when the material was great. But especially at the beginning, the topics can be dry.
This is an excellent course, grappling with photography's larger influence, which also provides a highly detailed introduction to a number of important photographers. Professor Kelsey is a very knowledgeable, enthusiastic and well-prepared professor.
grading is entirely subjective, exams are too long for the given time
too loosely structured
This course is wonderful: the readings are enriching not just for those interested in photographic practice but also in photographic theory.
Interesting but they ended up grading pretty harshly. and much better when you do the readings. Sometimes hard to catch the overall idea- found the layout of lectures hard to follow because it was only a series of about 30 pictures that we analyzed.
Professor Kelsey is one of the best lecturers I've had at Harvard! He asks for audience participation so it doesn't feel like you're sitting there soaking in words being spit at you. Really great for people interested in talking about photography in an art history context!
Loads of reading, but interesting to gain a perspective on an artform.
Definitely go to all the lectures.
Readings are pretty important so that you aren't cramming before the midterm and to appear informed in section. That said, this is an awesome course. I feel like I see all images in a different light now.
You can't go wrong with this class. It's one of the few Core/Gen-eds I've taken with material that's just as substantive as what concentrators are reading. Lecture is truly unforgettable because Kelsey is just so good and the images you look at are so well-selected. Every lecture at Harvard could and should be this entertaining. Also, the course is "easy" in terms of workload, but it does so much with so little. I feel the class has changed me and made me more visually literate.
This is a great class to take to fulfill your gen-ed requirements. You'll be surprised how widely applicable many of the insights are, and its really refreshing to have a class where you spend as much time looking at photos as text. Just make sure to learn how to write about art/photos before taking the exams. In my experience, it was a different form than other humanities essays.
The professor is amazing. Also, this course helps students to become well-versed in the history of photography and many of the big photographers, while also helping to sharpen their critical skills and see art and the world differently.  It gives students a new lens with which to observe the world.
Take absolutely ANYTHING that Professor Kelsey offers...
This class is a MUST. It is not too much work, and is VERY interesting.
This is an easy class if you pay attention and either go to class or review all the images and their photographers online after class. The final ended up being more serious then expected so make sure you make a good study guide. The final project was very doable and quite interesting, but make sure you start thinking of ideas right from the start because it creeps up on you. All in all, a very interesting class, especially (but not necessarily) if you like photography.
Great Culture and Belief. If you like photography, or even if you just want a well-taught survey of 19th and 20th century American and European culture, this course is well worth it.
This class is the most informative class that I have taken at harvard yet. From start to finish this class was really engaging. The lectures were incredibly interesting and so were the sections. The readings each week were fascinating and they were not too long as well. I really enjoyed learning about photography and I want to continue to learn about it
Fantastic class, very interesting and enjoyable lectures, one of the best introductory classes I have ever taken!
The final project is great! Interesting class, but lectures don't always flow in a cohesive fashion.
This class was incredibly awesome! It was probably my favorite class this semester. Professor Kelsey is absolutely amazing, and did an incredible job of making lectures interesting and engaging. Definitely, definitely recommend this class, not only as a gen ed, but just as an awesome experience.
Low stress and very interesting. Lectures were a pleasure. Grading was a bit arbitrary on the exams.
This is a pretty easy class that has very interesting material.  Prof. Kelsey makes lectures very engaging.  There isn't a lot of work outside of the final project, and the midterm and final require a lot of memorization but are not that bad.  I took it pass/fail, but probably would have ended with a pretty good grade anyway.
Professor Kelsey is awesome. If you're looking for an art history class that will open your eyes to the way photography has evolved and shaped the culture/society around you, this is it. As far as GenEds go, this class gives you a chance for creativity and makes you think outside of the box. I loved this class and couldn't recommend it more!
Professor Kelsey is great lecturer and really does well with tieing in the readings into the lectures.
Definitely a good class to satisfy the Culture and Belief Gen Ed requirement, especially if you are looking for something different. An interest in photography helps, as well as the ability to write and think critically. The readings do not take too much time. The final project, for which I did a photo album, was engaging and interesting.
A unique opportunity to learn about the photographic medium. Readings are varied and do not take too much time, and the final project is a unique opportunity to do a photographic project. Would definitely recommend.
The professor is fascinating during lecture and his no-technology policy makes you focus during class. Sometimes exams can seem daunting and projects can seem unstructured, but overall, this course is interesting and fun.
It's a great gen eds. The lectures were very enjoyable, and the material is certainly interesting. I did not do most of the readings, but I definitely got by just fine, but do the readings if you are disciplined enough to do so. They are interesting and enjoyable reads.
This is as good of an introduction to photography as you will get at Harvard. It is both expansive and really interesting, and I would definitely recommend it. Professor Kelsey is also fantastic. Some of the concepts are a little difficult, and the final photography project (if you choose to do it) is more work than it seems like it's going to be, so review material along the way and get started early on your project. Other than that, it's a pretty straight-forward course.
The lectures are incredible, and the readings are very fun. At times, the course felt like it was running low on conceptual material, and by the end it felt a bit redundant. You certainly learn a lot, and it isn't too challenging.
Amazing lectures. Professor Kelsey is a fantastic lecturer. The photography project was an exciting and hands-on way to engage with the history, and a welcome break from traditional final paper assignments. We covered a huge breadth of material and history, and I learned a lot about social history through the history of photography because photography was so often a response to/product of social and historical context. My TF Akili was a fabulous TF and really seemed to care about the material and the students, and showed a genuine interest in my project. Also, having the gallery installation specifically for our class was pretty cool. Great class, definitely made me smarter and more knowledgeable and exposed me to/got me deeply interested in a really cool subject I previously had little interest in. Take it!
This course doesn't have a lot of work per week and all of the lectures are pretty interesting. It has helped me to see photography in a very new way which is cool. The tests and projects, however, are pretty hard so keep that in mind if you are dying to get an A in this class
Somewhat interesting; not the first class I would take in HAA.
CB 30 is a brilliant course if you have no background whatsoever in photography (practice/history) as it traces very neatly several threads throughout history. However, given Prof. Kelsey's specialty (American photographic history), there's a conspicuous emphasis on American photography with European bits scattered here and there (such as the Soviet photomontage & Weimar Germany collage). If you are interested in modern/contemporary photography more, I am afraid this course allocates very little time for post-1960's photographic practice, and it's a much better option to take Prof. Kelsey's Cold War Photography seminar.
It's perfect to fulfill your Culture and Belief and is a lot of fun!
The only lecture in all of Harvard College that consistently keeps me awake and interested. Even at 10 am.
Lecture is very engaging, but the readings are about the opposite...photo project is a lot of fun and way better than a 10 page paper any day.
The lectures were a bit dull, and the readings somewhat hard to grasp. Section was definitely interesting, but the exams are somewhat vague in what they expect from you.
This course is so worth taking, if you can get a good TF. If you want to take it, I would be very attentive to your TF for the first couple of weeks and transfer quickly if it isn't working out. Also, know that the TFs do all the grading, so your grade is essentially in their hands, not Prof. Kelsey's.
An ideal Gen Ed.  Low stress, high reward.  Hearing Professor Kelsey lecture twice a week is a treat, and the course really does make you think critically about the way that photography has changed over time and affected our understanding of the world.
There are a lot of readings that you can get away without doing week-to-week, but you'll end up trying to cram them in before the exams.  Section is pretty miserable, but a fair amount of the lecture material is interesting and Kelsey is a great lecturer.  I'm sure there are better C&B courses out there, but if you're at all interested in photo or art history, this class is at least worth shopping, but be aware that laptops aren't allowed.
A great class overall - the material is really interesting and the workload is quite relaxed. However, it does require commitment: lecture notes are not provided nor are lectures filmed, so you'll be left behind if you don't attend. I wouldn't recommend the class if you don't have at least some interest in photography and photographic theory.
Don't wait until too late to start your final project or the last week of the semester will be extremely hectic.
If you have any interest in photography, this course is a great way to learn about its history and the factors that have shaped photography's progression.
It's a great class, and you really don't need any background in photography. Prof. Kelsey is a very engaging lecturer, and the reading load is not too heavy. Overall, a very enjoyable class.
The material can be interesting, but the course is overall too tedious to be really worthwhile.
The lectures are great. Professor Kelsey is really passionate about his work. Be careful about the teaching fellows because I believe that can really make or break your experience in this course.
This is an awesome gen-ed class, particularly if you're thinking about concentrating in art history. Its definitely not your easiest option for Culture and Belief, as there is a decent amount of reading, and some tricky theory that you can't expect to have encountered before in any other class. Regardless, the course is really well-run, and is really fantastic if you have any interest in photography.
TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU HAVE ANY INTEREST IN ART AT ALL. Professor Kelsey is a fantastic lecturer and I came out of each lecture with my mind blown. There are so many connections and historical relationships that can be observed through the camera lens that we never stop to think about.
This is a wonderful course and it's few weak points will almost certainly be rectified the next time it is offer thanks to ample efforts by the professor and TF's to gather student feedback. The material is really fascinating and a lot of fun to study whether or not you think you are interested in photography. It will really change the way you evaluate photography and art in general and Kelsey is a phenomenal professor
interesting and manageable material.  akili is a wonderful tf.  go to his section.  go to prof. kelsey's office hours--he's really fun to talk to!
I would tell future students that this course is truly inspirational and thought-provoking. It is not that easy for a Gen-Ed, despite stereotypes, so one should really be interested so that they are motivated to study for this course. In the end, an incredible course that I will never forget.
Interesting, good professor, a solid class.
Great way to fulfill Culture and Belief Gen. Ed. It helps to be interested in history. But even if you aren't I think the course would prove interesting.
This class is very interesting, but do not take it just for an easy A. Although you won't have too much work during the semester, the midterm and project are graded very subjectively and you will not know how you are doing until the very end when it's too late.
Go to every lecture! You'll be lost without it, but mostly go just because Prof. Kelsey is fantastic! Section can be frustrating, with a lot of people blabbering just to get participation credit. But if you're genuinely interested in art history and the context of photography, it's a great course!
Probably one of the more interesting CB courses, but that's not saying much. The course is graded extremely subjectively with little justification for scores on papers and projects.
Painless gen ed.
It is an excellent way to fulfill a difficult category of Culture and Belief, although content and readings can be slightly lengthy or contain advanced content, the class offers a great environment for learning about art and history.
A little more difficult than your usual Gen-Ed but very worthwhile. Really intriguing subject matter and Kelsey is a fantastic lecturer.
Definitely one of the best courses I've ever taken, and I'm a senior. Professor Kelsey is an unreal lecturer with intriguing perspectives to teach, and the whole course is an enjoyable trip into the world of photography, if you're willing to engage with it!
This class is very manageable and interesting way to fulfill a gened. I truly feel satisfied with the new information I acquired about the history photography and the professor raised some compelling arguments about the development of photography. It is however ABSOLUTELY VITAL that you attend lectures and TAKE VERY GOOD CLASS NOTES ON THE SLIDES because hardly any information discussed in lecture is posted online, and only about half or less of lecture content is at all referenced in the readings.
Professor Kelsey is an amazing lecturer and the material is incredibly interesting. Also, the readings are reasonable and relatively easy, and there is very little work required to stay on top of things. Definitely take it if you're at all interested in photography!
I enjoyed the class, but I felt that I didn't learn how to interpret or connect ideas the way the course intended. The course heavily weighs your ability to interpret, but doesn't really teach you how to do so.
Lectures are engaging and an effective use of time. At times sections were onerous and not particularly enjoyable.
It's a very interesting class, but little artsy so be prepared to analyze photographs. You can't just do the reading, but do it. I didn't do it and had to study a lot for the final and the reading is also very interesting.
This class is an excellent introduction to the history of photography. The lectures are incredible, and Professor Kelsey is really passionate about the material.  However, be careful about which TF you end up with- grading varies widely between different sections.
This is a really interesting course that gives you a good overview of the history of photography. The lectures are fantastic and section can be as well (depending on your TF), but don't underestimate that amount of time and effort you'll have to put into this course to do well and really appreciate the material.
This is a really interesting Gen Ed for sure. Though the lectures are a bit dry, the readings are really interesting and the photographers and photographs studied are amazing. The expectations for the exams are somewhat convoluted, but the final project is a great way to personalize this class to your views and interests. All in all, a really fun, not too tedious Gen Ed.
If you are at all interested in photography, take this class. It is superb. Professor Kelsey is a pretty engaging lecturer, but even if he's not jumping off the walls, he does such a wonderful job of organizing the course that you'll come out of each lecture with a strong understanding of the themes of the week and how they relate to other themes discussed throughout the semester. It's so easy nowadays to forget what an amazing, groundbreaking invention photography was in the 19th century, and this course is a fantastic way to explore how much it has evolvedsocially, historically, artisticallyover the decades.
The lectures in this class are fairly interesting, and they build to some pretty important implications about the way our society functions. It was also a good overview of the technological changes that enabled photography's role within society to become what it is today. That being said, it was not at all conceptually satisfying, and sections were completely awful. My TF seemed totally uninterested in whether or not anyone was learning from the conversations. We barely discussed how photography fits into the rest of art history, and if you know anything about art, you'll probably find the class less than satisfying.
Kelsey is a fantastic lecturer, and the lectures are paced and organized in a very interesting and effective way.  The photographic project is a great way to get your feet wet in photography.
This class was certainly the best Gen. Ed. I've taken at Harvard--it's really interesting material, Professor Kelsey is a superb lecturer, and it also has a very low workload, making it easy to work around other more involved classes. I never wanted to miss lecture because they were always substantive, engaging, and well-delivered. I decided to take the class in part because of Professor Kelsey's professed philosophy of education, which was that a person should value it, and because of his strict ban of screens in lecture. I really appreciated his seriousness and clear dedication in both of those areas, and it was well worth it.
Pretty interesting course material with an enthusiastic professor. The topics sometimes felt disjointed from lecture to lecture and readings were pretty hit-or-miss, but overall a good gen ed class. The final project is a cool opportunity if you don't have photography experience.
I signed up for this course because it seemed like a pretty easy way to satisfy the Culture and Belief requirement and was about a topic about which I didn't know much. I'm so glad that I did. It was a low-stress, yet very interesting way to satisfy a Gen Ed by learning about something that relates to everyday life. The final project at the end of the semester let me put what I had learned to the test as I created my own photographic book. The teaching staff was encouraging and helpful. I wholeheartedly encourage you to take this course--it's a fun way to change how you think about the countless images that surround you at every moment of your life.
It's a nice class to take. The photo final project is really interesting and rewarding.
Wonderfully beautiful class!
This is a great class on photography. Kelsey is a wonderful lecturer, but the section component needs revamping before I can recommend it.
If you want to be more cultured or want to learn more about art, this is the class for you! Really taught me how to appreciate photography. I also loved the history component!
Fun, easy way to take care of that pesky CB gen ed requirement. You get to learn about how photography has taken up different roles in society and cap it all off with the opportunity to put together a photographic final project.
This is an awesome course, and a painless way to fulfill Culture & Belief. Professor Kelsey is a fantastic lecturer, and his "no electronics" policy in class is actually really nice if you buy into it - class becomes a kind of hour-long escape where you just get to look at pictures. With a midterm, project, and final, the workload is super light (you don't really need to do readings) and the class is interesting. You'll be amazed by how much photography can shape our lives.
This course is probably a lot more historical than you anticipate; for me, that was cool because I enjoy learning about the groundwork and timing in addition to the art, but just know that the emphasis is equally on "history" and "photography." There's a TON of information covered, which can be overwhelming, but by and large it's a really interesting class.
It's not a lot of work on a week to week basis but you need to do the readings and attend lecture to be prepared for section. The exams are tough so I wouldn't categorize this as an easy gen ed.
Second half really interesting. A lot of long readings that seems unnecessary and tedious.
This class was extremely interesting and informative. Definitely one of the most interesting culture and belief classes. You do not have to necessarily do the readings though, for the exams as well as for sections, they do help in the overall analysis of the pictures and content. The final photographic project option was a nice divergence from the norm of writing papers and allowed more creativity than is typical for a harvard gen ed.
The lectures and material are generally very interesting and the amount of work you do from week to week is very minimal, other than the exams and the project. However, the section component of this course becomes really tedious, with people just making things up the whole time. Because of that format, there is really no incentive to keep up with the readings. Prof. Kelsey is great though!
The best CB you can take by far! Kelsey is a wonderful, wonderful lecturer, and you learn about photography in a way that will last you long past the course. Take it.[I also took Art and Thought in the Cold War, and Jazz, Culture, and Freedom- if you like either of those two courses, you will love this one.]
Interesting class. Section was a bit on the annoying side. Lectures were great. Content was good but annoying to hear students give their opinions on it.
An interesting class with good lectures! Not too much work outside of class, which is always good. Exams are funky though.
Excellent lectures, and exciting course material. The best class I have found for fulfilling Culture and Belief.
You dont know how the midterms/final are going to be like. The professor is great and the material is interesting, but it is very unclear what they expect from you on tests.
Good lectures, but the TF can make or break the class.
Kelsey is a great professor and it was a joy to attend class. There are virtually no assignments except the project and the exams, which makes the class easy enough, although I loved the readings and feel like I got a lot out of the class.
Great lecturer, interesting material. Shop the first couple lectures, and that should give you a good idea on whether you want to take the class.
Robin Kelsey is a charismatic guy and also a great lecturer who points out insights that would be difficult to think of on one's own.
I would say that I was somewhat disappointed by this course.  This is not like a typical HAA class which I was expecting.  I feel like more emphasis was put on the readings than the actual photographs we were looking at.  Readings are very dense and the exams demand a lot
Many people wish to get their Gen Ed requirements out of the way as painlessly as possible, and for those students this is a class that isn't going to break your schedule. But I found the class very interesting and worthwhile in its own right and would encourage people to put some thought into their work, because I think this is really a class where what you get out of the experience is equivalent to what you put into it.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Professor Kelsey is brilliant to listen to, and Elizabeth is an amazing, knowledgeable TF. This class changed the way I view the world, and how I think about photography and its role in society. You also learn important skills like situation analysis, communication (both verbal and written), and critical thinking. So far one of the best classes I've taken here. The readings aren't long at all (<30 minutes a week), and it's possible to procrastinate on them and catch up before the midterms/finals. However, it's better to stay on top of the assignment, as it'll add more to your experience in section. GO TO LECTURE! DON'T MISS OUT ON PROFESSOR KELSEY!
The readings are fairly dry, and I think you have to be able to buy into some of the themes that occur in the history of photography even if you think they're just random.
This is a great class to learn about the various objectives that photographs have been used to convey.  This class will not necessarily make you a better photographer (it is titled "A History of Photography" after all), but it is still an enjoyable class to take.
The class is very interesting, but also comes with reading that at times is lengthy. However, the material and professor are well worth the hours spent studying. Overall, it makes one feel smarter and gives you great skill at analyzing art at it's core.
I shopped this class for the past two years and was so excited to cap my senior year with a course I had heard such good things about - but it was such a disappointment and so unclear that I took it pass-fail, feeling even more frustrated as the semester progressed. This class is neither for novices of photographic analysis like me, nor for experts - by reaching neither group, it ultimately served no one. Expectations for student analyis were not explicit but unreasonably high on examinations. Lectures were scattered, superficial, and broad, and students were not allowed to use electronics as a further frustration to the learning process for those who take notes on laptops. Sections were a waste of time, without helping us develop our analytical techniques. This class was such a disappointment, and I hope Prof. Kelsey takes the time to revamp the course seriously in order to make it meaningful and really teach students how to look at a photograph and understand what to make of it, because I never learned that skill and it was my reason for taking the course.
Professor Kelsey can be kind of classic art-snobby at times but he certainly knows his stuff, and usually has very interesting, insightful commentary on the photos and themes in the class.  Minimal work load, don't need to keep up with the reading, tests are very fair and don't try to trick you, and the final photo project at the end is a great option.  I recommend this class for anybody needing a C&B gen ed without any hesitation, and if you enjoy photography, I'd take it anyway.
Prof Kelsey is a great lecturer, the material is really interesting and the final project is very fun, during the semester not much work is required though you should definitely attend all lectures, the sourcebook is not worth the money and articles can be found online, and you learn a lot not only about the history of photography but also about events happening around the world between the early 1800s to today, sections are mixed between year levels so you can meet people outside of your class which is cool as well.
It is a great GenEd course to fulfill culture and belief. The exams are a little difficult, but the readings each week is manageable and the photographic project was really enjoyable to do!
Professor Kelsey is a great lecturer, there is a relatively low workload, and you get to produce a project of your own doing at the end of the year.  Overall, great way to fulfill the C&B gen ed, especially if you're interested in photography!
The midterm was graded harder than I thought, we'll see about the final.
You should be very interested in comparative art and know how to write about it in order to fully enjoy this class. However, Professor Kelsey is very knowledgable about the subject matter and is a good lecturer.
FAVORITE CLASS AT HARVARD. Minimal reading/work besides tests and final paper. Get Elizabeth as your TF, she just gets it- so smart and runs section so well. Take this class.
This class is wonderful. Professor Kelsey is an engaging and knowledgeable lecturer. Just make sure that you are able to attend all of the lectures. If you miss class, it will be a lot harder to understand and recall some of the concepts that you will need later when analyzing the works presented in lectures during the exams. Secondly, going to lecture makes studying for exams (as well as taking exams) MUCH easier.
The lectures are fantastic (do not be worried about not being able to use your comptuer to take notes!! You'd be surprised by how much you retain just listening and writing). Get Elizabeth as your TF! I heard that some TFs were subpar, but she is excellent!! My only reservation is the photo book project -- it is worth a lot. I took a risk doing it despite having no photography experience because the course heads said that our photography skills would not be evaluated, but when you hand in a photo book, no matter how ingenious or academic or well thought out your concept, TFs can only evaluate those photos. I had a much better understanding of the material than those photos may have communicated, and a three page reflection cannot do that understanding justice. If I had known the photos were be scrutinized, I would absolutely have written a paper. That said, definitely take this class! The work load is manageable and the material is interesting.
This class is great!! Definitely wish I had taken it back when it was open note, but generally SUPER interesting and engaging lectures that cover a wide variety of topics, painless assessments and the option to do a photography project instead of a final paper! Definitely take this if you're looking for an enjoyable Culture and Belief!!
This was an excellent class, and even though they don't claim to present a survey of the history of photography, to me it was pretty comprehensive and most of my favorite photographers were covered. You get a real sense of the role photography played throughout history since its invention, as well as the effect of historical events and changing social climates on photography itself. The lectures are excellent, the readings are really interesting, and I'd recommend this class to anybody.
This class is definitely interesting and worth taking. Some of the reading gets a little heavy, but it all is definitely manageable. Professor Kelsey is an amazing lecturer, and the leaders of the sections are very helpful.
It is a great course about a creative subject, but unlike some courses on similar subjects, you actually learn a lot.
