Great overview of interesting Japanese religions and the effect of external factors in the evolution of religion.
It was a really great course. It completely changed the way that I look at anime and gave me a whole new understanding of Japanese culture. Sometime that readings can be long or boring, but a lot of the material is also covered during lecture so even if you can't always get through all of the material, you will normally be prepared for section and the essays. If you like Japan or anime, definitely consider taking this course.
Great class for the Culture & Belief requirement: engaging material, engaging reading, great professor.
THIS IS AN AMAZING CLASS!! Take it.
Professor Hardacre gave enthusiastic lectures that holds your interest. She and the one TF work really hard to make it a great course, a really enjoyable class
Don't take this class. It's too much work to be an easy gen ed and not enough substance to be a meaningful class. It lacks real structure and it's focus is split between so many topics that t's hard to really get into anything. Film screenings take up more time than you expect and can becoming an annoying obligation as the semester gets busier.
Amazing teachers, fun lectures and overall concepts, although can get time-consuming with a heavy reading schedule and an extra movie section.
This is an extremely interesting, fun course to take for a Gen. Ed. The lecture/class material is extremely well-organized that you can follow and review everything. The required readings are very interesting as well. The course staff is very responsive to feedback. Also, keep in mind that this is one of those classes that end earlier than other courses (a lot of work in the first half of the semester). Also make sure that you can make the screenings! Everything has required attendance: the lecture, the section, and the screenings!
Very interesting even if you're not familiar with the culture or anime.
This is a great class if you're interested in anime, Japanese pop culture, or just Japanese history in general.  Lectures are very interesting, and the film screenings for the most part are well chosen.  The readings can be a bit dry and boring sometimes, but the class as a whole is fairly easy and not stressful.
This is a really solid class and an easy way to fulfill your Culture and Belief Gen Ed. Professor Hardacre is wonderful and always so enthusiastic about the subject she teaches and Eric has a lot of fun bringing in perspectives from Japan at the time and particular nuances / ties to his study of Esoteric Buddhism. Most of the films are really great and fun to watch with a couple of ones that are a little drier, but overall the screenings were very relaxed. Section rushes by really quickly and the response papers do not take a lot of effort. As long as you have done some of the readings or know a little bit of anime history, the exams are a piece of cake.
nice fun class, decent amount of work but not too much
It's just a good time!
Both Professor Hardacre and our TF, Eric, were very passionate and enthusiastic about the topics that were being taught which made the course a great experience. There are some challenging readings for this course, but they are very interesting if you take the time to read through them carefully. I would highly recommend this course to anyone who appreciates Japanese culture, film/anime, and manga. It is a great course!
this is an easy class and is fun to learn about. but this class is about religion, not about anime. thats not a reason to not take this class, but if you are looking for an anime class, this isnt it.
This course is fun with awesome material and fun films. However it also emphasizes critical writing with amazing feedback that seeks to make you a much better writer in the humanities. The teachers truly care about your feedback and implement changes to make the course more dynamic as the weeks pass on. Definitely take it and enjoy the Hayao Miyazaki films!
Films are wonderful and Professor Hardacre really cares about the material and teaching. Guest lecturers are wonderful too.
This class is awesome if you are interested in anime and/or want to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement.
You will never look at anime and manga the same way again! This course has given me so much insight into the contemporary world of Japan and of course, Japanese Buddhism. I seriously feel like this is one of the most engaging and interesting courses I have taken yet! My classmates were all interested in anime and manga and just that alone totally made for incredibly interesting discussion section - not once did I dread having to go to section. Also, the courseload is EXTREMELY light - either a discussion post or a (short!) response paper (it's changed to one or the other every week which makes the work feel less repetitive). Also, Adam is an amazing TF - he's kind, cool and taught me how to write all over again. Didn't think a class on anime and Buddhism would teach me how to write, but it did! Movies seemed to take the most time outside of lecture but if you plan to take this course and don't mind going to weekly screenings, totally worth it - the movies are wonderful (and some are interesting in different ways) and are very relevant to the course. I absolutely enjoyed this course and walked away from it knowing much more than I thought I would (and they even have a recommended anime list!) Take this course!!
If you are even slightly interested in Japanese culture, anime, or manga, you should definitely take this course! The lectures are awesome and Helen is one of the sweetest people you'll ever encounter here at Harvard. Definitely take this course if you're looking to satisfy a Culture and Belief requirement.
This course is a great way to get the Culture and Belief gen ed out of the way. Having one of two weekly sections consist of watching a movie and only one short response paper every week, this class is pretty easy in terms of workload. However, having a general interest in Japan would definitely be recommended, as your analysis will be directly compared with a majority of people who are either East Asian Studies concentrators, from Japan, or both. Also, minimal knowledge of Japanese would be helpful given all of the movies were shown in Japanese with English subtitles. From what I could tell, most of my classmates could speak Japanese fairly proficiently which could have added a certain depth to the films, considering at least a marginal bit of original interpretation is lost in translation when converting a language as characteristically unique as Japanese to English.
If you like anime, it's not what you think.
This is honestly one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. It covered Japanese religion quite well, and made strong, clear ties to the films it watched. Take this class if you're interested at all in Japanese religion or anime and film.
This is a great class to take if you are remotely interested in anime or Japanese culture and want to fill the Gen Ed requirement.
This course seems like it could be cool, and maybe it will improve after this (I think its first) year. But at least based on when I took it, I wouldn't recommend it unless you just want a totally easy class and want to watch some really good movies. The lectures and sections are really, really boring most of the time. Again, worthwhile if you want to just hang out and watch some movies, but if you want your classes to be really deep and engaging, I might pass on this right now.
This was a fun course, the subject matter is interesting and the films you watch are great!
