Do not take this class as your introduction to the folklore and mythology field (a bit ironic considering the title).  If you're interested in the concentration, take a more specific course first as the broad scope and historiography of folklore studies in the class can be very dry without prior study.  Steve and his TFs are great people, but lecture often felt dense with unnecessary tangential material.  Skim the readings and make sure to create a glossary as you go along because exams definitely hit you with material you didn't think you had read about.  Folklore collections (the primary assignments) were fun and easy.
You get from the class what you put in
This is an excellent class! Professor Mitchell is not only an expert in the field but is also an incredibly kind person who truly wants to get to know his students.If you enjoy studying traditions and culture, the subject matter is very interesting. The workload is also extremely managable: a midterm, a final, two essays, and three folklore collections (for which you gather folklore from different communities on and off campus). Though the three fieldtrips require you to wake up very early on Fridays or Saturdays, the fieldtrips (to Salem, to the Mashantucket Pequot Museum, and to the Longfellow House) were really fun and informative.
I came in thinking we'd be reading a lot more myths than we actually did (the course focuses much more on different types of folklore and legends and etc), and overall, we didn't do as much reading actual stories as we did reading about how to study and classify these stories. It was definitely an interesting class, although there was extensive reading didn't really relate to what was happening in the class/lectures until the midterm or final exam came around. The field trips to Salem, the Pequot Museum, and the Longfellow House were super fun!
This course is awesome! You learn about storytelling, mythologies, witchcraft, and much more, and how each piece of folklore is important to cultures and the world as a whole. Collections are actually really fun because you can be very creative with them. The first paper is confusing, but ask your TF or Steven how to handle and you'll be golden. The TFs are awesome, Steve has about a billion fascinating things to say, and the field trips are really cool. I highly recommend this course if you are trying to fulfill a GenEd.
This is an awesome course and Steve Mitchell is amazing! Go sign up for it right now!
This is a good class. There's a fair bit of reading, but the assignments are fun and Professor Mitchell really cares about the material. It's a great introduction to the concentration and a fun way to fulfill the Gen Ed.
Do the readings; it doesn't even take that long.
The course is for the most part interesting, and Professor Mitchell is obviously very enthusiastic about the material. If you keep up with the readings and take detailed notes on them, the midterm and final are quite manageable (however, if you fall behind you may find yourself struggling to catch up, as the readings do get more substantial). The collection assignments can be fun, but I would suggest starting on them early.
There are a lot of classifications in the beginning, but it is manageable and actually helpful in the end.
This class is a really painless way to do your CB gen ed. Field trips are fun, the material is really interesting, and there's not a lot of work. Pretty much all you can ask for in a class!
too many readingscourse material wasn't as engaging as I would have hopedI just reached where I stopped caring about different 'folklore' definitions
Be very attentive to details when completing your collections.  My teaching fellow evaluated less on what we said and more on the degree to which we followed instructions.  Be forewarned that exams require you to define terms found in the readings.  I personally found this class to be quite reading-intensive.  Because not everyone kept up with the work, discussions were frequently lackluster, and section was a pain.  That being said, Professor Mitchell is wonderful, intelligent, and enthusiastic, and the teaching staff is very approachable.  The syllabus includes some fascinating articles!
This class is a great gen. ed. class. Professor Mitchell and the TF's care a lot about the students and possess an impressive amount of knowledge on the course material. I especially recommend this course to those fascinated by cultural traditions and interested in learning about less well known traditions as the course emphasizes performance and oral traditions. There are a lot of reading assignments, but they are meaningful assignments that provide examples of the concepts covered in lectures.
This was a great gen ed course! The lectures, though sometimes were heavy on the classification of different types of folklore, were very interesting. Prof. Mitchell worked very hard to make the material relevant to folkgroups today. While it was heavy on Scandinavian groups, he tried to include examples from other cultures. Overall, a very pleasant course with minimal/enjoyable assignments (though the collections could have used more clarification in expectations). It also definitely opened my eyes to how prevalent folklore is--how it has changed over time, how it functions in groups....
Take this class! The lectures are really fun and you learn a lot about a variety of traditions. The readings aren't too intensive, and section is pretty laidback. You also go on a couple of excursions to various museums in New England-- they are mandatory and generally are on Saturdays, but the places are pretty interesting so it's definitely worth it.
This course was excellent but took a lot of time. The material was fascinating and Prof. Mitchell was brilliant, but I'm not sure I'd recommend it just as a gen ed, as its workload is rather heavy.
If you've ever been curious about the tales we humans tell ourselves, storytelling as an act, or folklore and mythology and how they relate to society as a whole, then you should definitely take this class. You'll learn a lot from it!
The main focus of the course is an introduction into the taxonomy of folklore and folklife. What is a folktale, a myth, a calendar custom, an urban legend, etc. Thus, the course is very definition oriented. However, because of the nature of the study of folklore, definitions are difficult to agree on, which makes it difficult to know exactly what is what and why the classifications are useful, other than classifications for classifications sake. That being said, the work is interesting (collecting Harvard foklore), the essays are not terrible. The book is interesting. The articles are varied so there's going to be something that everyone enjoys reading about (be in Disney, myths, or ostention). The field trips are fun and the staff tries their hardest to make the course enjoyed by all.
This class is a fantastic introduction to folklore that covers a wide range of unique topics. Also necropants.
This class was the first time at Harvard I've actually been able to study modern Harvard through my coursework.  You collect three sets of "Harvard folklore," stories, traditions, etc. which was my favorite part of the course.  It can be a nice class in terms of a relatively easy workload (you can have some flexibility in when you do the readings...but I do recommend that you ultimately do a lot of the readings, otherwise the final won't be fun).  Professor Mitchell's lectures can be a bit rambling at times, but he has really interesting stories if you're willing to listen.  The TF's were amazing as were the guest lecturers.  If you're curious about Folk and Myth, want an interesting and fairly chill way to fulfill CB, and if you're interested in taking a fun humanities class, I definitely recommend.
This is a great course if you are looking for a gen ed that is fairly easy but also interesting. The collection assignments were sometimes frustrating, but this was a great introductory course to the folklore and mythology department. Folklore and mythology is such an under appreciated field and this course is a great chance to experience some of the unique fields Harvard has to offer without committing to a concentration or secondary.
If you are looking into exploring folk and myth, this course definitely seems to be the place to start.Steve is a great lecturer and great person! The folklore collection assignments are a hands-on way to engage with the course material, and the exams are straight-forward.
This class is more about how academics consider folklore than folklore itself.  It is a very broad survey which can be very superficial in its treatment of subject matters.  There are some interesting case studies in the reading, but expect to wade through a lot of academic garrulousness.  The study of particular fields of folklore is fascinating and wonderful, but having to speak this language is irritating.
This class was very easily managed. It might have been somewhat helpful to keep a running glossary of terms throughout the semester in order to prepare for exams, but this wasn't necessary to succeed. ALthough the lecture component felt disorganized and unfocused, the readings, section component, and handouts were helpful in keeping the course focused.
You get out what you put in!
You'll get as much as you put in. It's a cliche, but it is super relevant to this class. It isn't that hard to do okay without doing any of the readings or really engaging yourself but then you won't get anything out of it. Learning about the human experience is enriching and you can really do that in this class by analyzing the folklore they put out.
This class definitely gives you a new perspective on human nature. It gives you a newfound appreciation for the diversity of each and every human, but also the collective traditions and cultures of a group of people. It teaches you to appreciate art, music, poetry, epics, ballads, and cultural creations of all sorts. It taught me to appreciate a saddle! (And the saddlemaker is Professor Mitchell's relative, too, so that's an added bonus.) Lowell is a great TF, and he makes this class upbeat and enjoyable (more so than it already is). I'd definitely recommend it. It's a great way to get CB out of the way, but also a chill elective. Some weeks are heavy on the readings, but not so if you're an English/Gov/Lit major, or others who are used to reading. It's really light if you're used to that.
a lot of reading and a lot of class content, but worth it. Stephen Mitchell's lecturing is engaging and friendly (although there is not as much scaffolding for newcomers as i would have liked at times), and section is a lot of fun. come prepared to participate actively in class and in section - this is definitely a class where you get out what you put into it.
Professor Mitchell is a great teacher, and very enthusiastic about the subject. However, doing the readings for the class don't correspond to lecture, making it easy to slack off. Be wary of the 9 AM lecture time as well!
Course is manageable, but be prepared to read a larger amount of materials each week
An interesting topic that I don't think is explored terribly often.
This class is really great! Steve is an excellent professor - really knows his stuff, very engaged and makes you excited abut the material. You get to jump around all over the field of folklore and mythology, do a lot of interesting readings and watch movies.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard- the material is interesting and relevant.  Great way to fulfill a gen ed requirement, and I would recommend it as an elective.  Definitely the kind of the class where you get out what you put in- doing the readings helps you get a lot out of the class but probably aren't necessary to know until the midterm and final.
This is a fantastic course! Steve is a great lecturer who captured my attention from the first day, and Nicole is a great TF who gives lots of advice, especially for the writing assignments. Definitely pay attention in class, because the topics are so varied and interesting.
The readings are really interesting. Make sure you do them and try to take some notes or keep up a glossary of terms. Definitely take the class, it was fantastic. The oral exam was a great format and the collections were brilliant for learning more about Harvard and talking to new people.
Don't be put off by the dry first lectures. This class is a lot of fun and really interesting. Steve and Nicole are wonderful faculty- incredibly sweet and approachable. This is a fun Gen Ed, low workload, you get to collect stories about Harvard. If you're interested in doing Folklore and Mythology (which you should) it's a great introduction to the department and the academic topics of folklore.
This is class is incredibly interesting -- and, fear not, it's not all Greek mythology and stuff from hundreds of years ago. You will definitely get a sense for what 'folklore' is, how it impacts our lives, and how it still exists today. The professor, Steve,  and the TF, Nicole, are fantastic, very kind, and always willing to answer any questions you might have about the course. Take it!
This is one my absolute favorite classes I have taken at Harvard.  It is really evident in this class that Dr. Mitchell and Nicole care deeply about the material and more importantly, their students.  This class is fun and very different from most other classes at Harvard. Absolutely anyone, no matter your concentration, will enjoy this class.  Yes, there is reading you have to do, but it is all very interesting, so it is enjoyable to do.  The important thing is that you feel supported and encouraged by the teaching staff in the process which makes it such an incredible experience.
The readings are helpful and very necessary for the exam.
I haven't taken any other classes in the Folk and Myth department, so I can't compare it to other Folk & Myth classes, but like most intro classes (I assume), this class was interesting at times but also sometimes a bit dry and tedious. Still, it's a good introduction and gen ed class overall. If you're hoping to learn all about ancient myths and folktales and interesting traditions from around the world, you will get some of that, but it's also much more about the study of folklore and how folklore is an integral part of society, so modern legends and stuff like that are also discussed. The workload really isn't so bad- readings are sometimes interesting but sometimes dull, but collections are pretty interesting (though writing the essay for the 2nd and 3rd collections was kind of annoying). The final is a take-home- you have about 3 days to write 3 essays, and it was due the first day of Reading Period. It was annoying, but nice to not have to take it during finals week.
The class can seem a little disorganized sometimes, but it's so worth it because the teaching staff is fantastic.
This class is super interesting! It also isn't too work intensive. The readings are fun, but sometimes long, but even if you can't do all of them you'll get a ton out of this class. Professor Mitchell is engaging and very enthusiastic, which adds to the already fun material. Take this class! A great way to fulfill Culture and Belief, or just learn a little about Folk & Myth.
While the ideas behind folk and myth are interesting, these lectures are not interesting, often fall off target, and meander around the topic at hand. Very little feedback on assignments. I wouldn't recommend.
Do not take this class if you are just trying to fulfill the general education requirement. The class does have quite a lot of reading, and unless you are fully invested or at least somewhat interested in this material, you will struggle to keep up with the assignments.
This is a good course if you're interesting in studying folklore or mythology or legends at all. The readings are pretty interesting because it all relates back to human traditions (like reading about legends of a Native American tribe, or traditions of witchcraft or the reason why we have certain holidays), so I felt like everything was applicable and relevant.
The course is a good introduction to the field and you get to practice collecting folklore. I think that it can do more to include minority cultures.
This class doesn't take very much time. You really just have to complete a few essays and a midterm exam. Good choice for those just looking to fulfill the culture and belief requirement with a lot of time-demanding classes.
The course introduces the foundation of folklore in an engaging manner and does a great job of relating it to current issues. That being said, the course is very disorganized and lectures are occasionally difficult to follow.
It's a very easy course most of the time, except for during midterm and exam periods. Also, the essay assignments are very vague.
This class was relatively simple and contained some interesting topics.  However lectures and readings were often a bit dull.
This is a good overview class for folklore any mythology. Not the readings, but most of the assignments center around Harvard itself. The assignments aren't bad, but the final take home essay was much longer than expected (9 pages in a couple of days)
The material can be interesting just a tad redundant.
I took this course as a Gen Ed, but that was a mistake--this is an intro for a concentration, so you must take it seriously.
This course is unusual but that's what makes it interesting. You learn to really engage in the course material and you really do learn a lot about a topic that isn't discussed much beyond class.
Folklore isn't as folksy as you think. Lots of contemporary examples are covered throughout the semester, and everyone enjoys urban legends
Professor Mitchell is amazing. His lectures are engaging and the subject material is impossible to find boring. The class is also lots of fun. The major assignment of the class is to collect various items of "HarvardLore", like the story of the Adams Pool, and the three things you have to do before graduation. However, not all TF's are created equal. One is nice and fun and a reasonable grader. The other is arguably the least effective educator I've ever had. He gives no feedback, just your grade, which is often low because he takes off a full letter grade for any spelling errors. Be careful! But don't let this stop you, the subject is AMAZING and so is the prof.
This course is a great introduction into the world of Folklore & Mythology, and those who find interest in this field should shop and consider this as their gen ed requirement. However, I recommend this course with reservations because the course content is extremely broad, and there will most certainly come a time in the semester when you are on a section that you have no interest in, and ask yourself "Why am I learning about this?". The answer of course is ostension.
The material covered is interesting whether you are planning to study folklore or just fulfilling a gen ed requirement. It might seem like the readings are optional and that you don't really have to do them, but the midterm and the final are very dependent on the readings so I would suggest doing them mostly on schedule. (It's possible to fall behind a couple weeks, but try to stay on top of them.) The readings are fun for the most part, though, and as they are basically the only work you get it shouldn't be too stressful.
This class is a low stress and interesting course to take if you are looking to fulfill a gen-ed.
This class is a great introduction to culture, through the eyes of folklore and mythology. No background in these fields is necessary and Professor Mitchell's lectures are so engaging and interesting. He is a great guy.  Be prepared to take good notes! There was never a dull moment in this class and all the topics were interesting. Although I originally took this class to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement, I am very glad I took it -- I've learned a lot about culture and how it is transmitted from generation to generation, and the teaching staff for this class is excellent.
Interesting class, laid back, fair assignments. Good way to fulfill core/gen ed requirements.
Do all the readings and come to lecture and you'll learn to love the class. It's as simple as that.
I'd shopped this course twice before, and both times kept putting it off (wanted to do a secondary) because the first lecture was very boring.  I sucked it up and took it this time, and was pleasantly surprised. It's a fun course, especially if you do the readings, although section will usually cover most of the important stuff.  It's probably not for everyone, but I really liked it... There's a bit of some semiotics stuff towards the end, but it doesn't go really deep.  You'll get from it what you put into it.  Maggie was really helpful, and Steve is very approachable.
It was a fine way to fulfill the Gen Ed Requirement.
fair amount of reading, but interesting subject and lots of relevant videos and internet clips
While the workload for this class is minimal and definitely light, the information covered in this course is dull and grading on assignments is incredibly unfair. The TF would make irrelevant comments and excuses for taking off points on tests and collection essays.
CB 16 is a great way to fulfill the general education requirement. As long as you put the effort (which is not very much) into the course and do the work required, it is an enjoyable requirement.
This a great class with interesting materials, but don't go into it thinking it's going to be mythology-centric.  The focus is less on Greco-Roman myths and more on folklore in your own life.
This is a good course if you are interested in the material. Not very work intensive and even if you feel like you might not be too sure what you need to know for exams from lecture, section will fill in those gaps.
Take it if you have an open mind and are willing to get passionate about something you might find random and unnecessary at first.
This was a fun course. The writing assignments were not too hard, and they told you exactly what to study before the exams.
A fun way to fulfill a Gen-Ed.
It was a great way to satisfy this Gen. Ed. The professor is really nice and so is the TF. They make sure you are prepared for the exams. Everything is graded very well and fairly.
The course is taught very well, letures and section were very interesting to listen to.
GREAT CLASS!!!!!
If you have to take it, it is enjoyable; if you don't, there are probably better culture and belief classes.  Also if you are contemplating a folklore concentration this is not the class to take, take a smaller class that counts for concentration credit first.
It's a really fun way to fulfil the C&belief requirement, and really, not too hard if you keep up with the readings. Attend lecture, it saves you a lot of time when you're reviewing, they're only one hour long, and the material covered then is most of what is in the exams.
I found myself applying this class to several other classes I was taking at the time - the crossover of the theory was extremely interesting and the professor and TFs were always ready and willing to assist me with anything.
It's an easy course...one you might want to take if you have other harder classes. On the otherhand, its kind of boring. The nice thing is you don't have to go to all the lectures to do well.
This lectures in this class are really good, Professor Mitchell incorporates tons of videos and music clips.  Section is really helpful for the midterm and final exams.  Learning key terms is important to success in this class but overall the class is very enjoyable and painless.
Class is a little boring, but it is a easy way to knock out gen ed, studies of the past, and second half of the writing requirement.
This course is fairly well taught but make sure you're really interested in learning about the subject matter, especially oral traditions.
its a mad easy class with a low time commitment
A painless, easy, and relatively enjoyable Culture and Belief course.
Be aware this isn't an easy A. There is work in this class.
This class is the PERFECT Culture & Belief gen ed.  It requires minimal work, some of the readings are really interesting, and the sections are great.  You have to be willing to make the material interesting to yourself -- it will help if you're interested in things like traditions, holidays, urban legends, superstitions, etc.  It will actually make you look at your own life, customs, actions, etc. in a new light.
one of the top 10 easiest classes at Harvard...why not?!
The course may have a lighter workload than most, but can become boring unless you have genuine interest in the subject matter, and engage the professor and teaching staff in discussion.
It's an interesting course and a great way to complete a gen ed.  Painless.  Readings are interesting.
This class is unclear.
The information you learn is very interesting. The course just seems a bit poorly organized.
stephen mitchell is an offbeat and fun professor. this is a chance to learn more about harvard as an institution and to look at it in a new light. the readings were all pretty interesting (especially the ones about satanic cults and urban legends). It's like reading the National Enquirer for class.
there is a lot of reading but the course is very interesting. There is a lot of writing to do.
This course was interesting, but a bit frustrating at times. The collections sound difficult, but aren't that bad, although it's kinda annoying to have to write a paper on one of the items in the collection, it isn't too difficult. The readings were short/fun most of the time, but a few were real dull and difficult to connect with the concept at hand. Professor Mitchell clearly knows what he's talking about, but he has a tendency to get off-topic during lecture and mumble the last few words of a point, which is at once amusing and annoying. The midterm and exam were relatively painless though, and the class itself is fascinating, you just have to be willing to put up with jumping through some hoops.
If you're looking for an easy, lecture-optional Gen Ed class on an interesting topic, consider taking this one, though be aware that its reputation as extremely easy means that the instructors are toughening up slightly as far as grading is concerned. If you're looking for an engaging class on the utterly fascinating topic of folklore, take one of the higher-level Folk & Myth seminars (which are apparently great, and none of which need this as a prerequisite), because it is definitely not a good introduction to the discipline of folkloristics. Too much reading, dull lectures.
The course is very easy, but do not take it unless you are genuinely interested in the material, because if not the readings and lectures can get pretty dry and boring.
Course is really easy. The material is really interesting even though half way through the semester you may be wondering what the hell you're doing. At the end, you realize you learned a lot, and you can apply it to a lot of different things. Mitchell is a good guy even if he's a bit stodgy, but otherwise, it's a great way to get done with a requirement or to fill out a tough schedule.
This is a good class if you don't want to spend time on your gen ed
Very good class to explore a new field.
This class is interesting if you care at all about folklore. If you are looking for an easy gen ed to take while taking a difficult courseload, then this is the class for you.
It wasn't too much work but wasn't an interesting class.
The course is reasonably easy but also extremely boring. If you don't mind being bored, you might appreciate this course as an easy way to satisfy CB 16
This class is probably best as an introduction for students who intend to concentrate in Folklore and Mythology. For students who take the course hoping to understand folklore as a factor of human society, the class leaves something lacking.
Interesting subject area that is also very accessible
You will learn some interesting and useful information in this class, but you will also have to wade through a lot of undesirable topics.  This class did not feature a lot of stimulating folklore or mythology, but rather spent most of it's time on the theories behind them.
it definitely was not what i expected as advertised in the course catalogue. it fell below my expectations
painless, interesting, a lot of fun.
A lot of fun, interesting material, but collections can sometimes be a pain
It's an interesting introduction to the study of folklore and does not require too much outside work, other than the folklore projects. It's a great core because you don't have to write any papers.
This class was really great - easy to follow, and very easy to relate to if you have any kind of imagination whatsoever.  It puts in perspective how important it is to maintain the study of folklore and mythology for those who know little about it.
interesting
Great way to satisfy Lit C but do not take for any other reason.
LIght work, painless
Core class that is easy, interesting, and enjoyable
Easy and interesting.
This is a good way to fill the Core/GenEd requirement for Literature C/Culture and Belief--painless and pleasantly different from the norm.
It is a painless core because it does not have a lot of readings, and the assignments can be completed quickly. However, it is definitely ranked high among one of the most boring course in which one does not learn anything.
This class is a little treasure.  It is so interesting and Professor Mitchell is great.  If you are looking for a class that you will be excited to go to, this is the one for you.
this class is fun, easy, and really interesting, very applicable to the world in general!
Interesting material, not too hard, good professor
This course is awesome! You get to collect Harvard legends, the reading is interesting, the Professor is awesome and funny, and the midterms are really easy. A classic core class.
Folkore 100 is a fun class. It provides an interesting perspective on one's own life and experiences with folklore while introducing the fundamental topics of its study.  It is a class that is painless and accessible to everyone.
This class is a great way to fulfill your core or general education requirement that has a decent amount of work and is graded fairly; both the professor and the section leaders are extremely helpful and approachable.
The class is so much fun.
not to take it unless they have a strong interest in folklore theory, that is not to say, an interest in folklores.
This class is relatively boring compared to what would be expected. There's also very few lectures on folktales, which is the main draw of the course.
Very painless class, but it can be frustrating at times because the lectures don't make sense.
It's very easy but very enjoyable.  The stuff you learn in this course has a weird way of becoming relevant for your other classes.  It's a good course to take as a freshman because you learn a lot about Harvard traditions.  The assignments are easy, but seem somewhat futile at times.
That it was a fun and interesting way to fulfill a core requirement, and a class I would have probably taken again even if it hadn't fulfilled a requirement.
Really boring, really easy.
GREAT way to fulfill a core requirement, highly painless since there are no real papers. Even if you think you have no interest in folklore and mythology, this class will not overwhelm you and may well turn out to be decently interesting.
If you would like to actually learn, doing the readings and asking questions in vital. This is a very easy class but to take a lot of knowledge away is up to you.
Easy, you get what you put into itTeaching staff is nice
You won't read as much folklore as you might believe.
This is a fun and easy course with no essays.
It's painless, entertaining, and a nice, fun, chill class.
I would really only recommend it to someone who thought that they might legitimately go into Folklore and Mythology as a major or minor. There is too much focus on the study of folklore and not enough on the actual folklore to make it general-interest.
I completely recommend this course as a fun, (relatively) easy, and painless way to complete your Lit-C requirement.
If somebody needs to get a Lit-C out of the way and wants a course that isn't boring and isn't hard, I'd recommend this to them.
Know that this class approaches folklore and mythology from an almost entirely academic perspective. You will read very few actual items of folklore but rather cover mostly theory.
Go to lectures.
Learn the secrets of the necopants!  Folklore invisibly influences every aspect of human society.
it's fine. not a ton of work, but not that interesting.
take it if you want a class that you can get by in without putting in any work. the readings are inane.
It is a great course if you are open-minded and interested in the material/the idea of folklore.
This class does not look at the fun stories of folklore and mythology, it studies the origins and culture of the story.  Take another class if you want better stories.
This isn't a life-altering course, but it definitely illuminates a huge part of our everyday lives that we are too quick to pass over and often miss its value
Easy course so long as you do the reading or attend lectures (one or the other, both if you can).
It is an easy class that if you are passionate about the subject, you will enjoy.
As someone who has no interest in the field, but found the prospect of reading folklore and mythology intriguing, this course was quite disappointing.
This class is not so much a folklore class as it is a class about the study of folklore. The material was different than what I expected it to be, but this in no way takes away from the interest that it generated.
you should be open-minded, and willing to think about folklore/mythology in a different way than you'd expect (not just about greek mythology)
it's a lot of fun! there are cool readings and the material is so relevant that you'll find yourself finding folklore everywhere!
It is not a difficult class, but definitely familiarize yourself with the way of "speaking" folklore.
A good way to fill a core.
easy, silly core
There is a good amount of reading.  If you are busy, don't bother doing it (although some of it can be interesting).  Forming a study group is clutch.  Before midterm and final just form a study group with about 15 people and divide up the readings/review guide.
What a painless way to fulfill a core requirement!
It's actually about the study of the study of folklore, and thus not as interesting as expected
I would highly recommend this course to anyone interesting in Folk and Myth, anthropology, and really the humanities in general, but would not recommend it to people who want an easy Gen Ed class.
Students should take this course but the collections can be very difficult.
This course does not cover what one would typically think of as 'folklore and mythology,' so if you are looking to take a course on greek gods and those types of myths, don't take this course.
While this class is very easy, I would only recommend taking it if you have a genuine interest in the material. Otherwise, you will not look forward to going to lecture, doing the readings, etc. In retrospect, I probably would not have taken the class because it did not interest me enough to like it, despite its level of easiness.
The class isn't as interesting as it might sound.  The assignments weren't difficult but were annoying, as was the grading in the course.
Painless Gen Ed! TAKE! Daily hw is minimal, this course is a breeze.The major assignments are just three collections of Harvard folklore (basically any team initiation or finals club legend you've heard). But do try to keep up with readings for the midterm and final.One thing to note - you don't study myths and folklore so much as the STUDY of myths and folklore (classification, theories, etc.). So the material is easy, but boring.
Good class to take in addition to some other demanding courses.
It can be very frustrating at times and feel completely pointless to be in the class. The collection assignments were fun, but studying for the midterm and final was a very long process. If you want a relatively easy culture and belief class, I'd recommend the class, just keep in mind that the material might change the way you view folklore and folktales, potentially not for the better. It removes the magic from them..
You'll get as much out of this class as you put in. You can learn a lot or nothing at all.
It is a very interesting course and the professor and teaching fellows are passionate about the subject and very willing to help.
This class is easy, fun, and fulfills a Core/Gen Ed.  Professor Mitchell is funny, section is low-stress, and the papers and assignments are very minimal.  Take it.
This is a good course, but be prepared to study a lot of theory. Some readings are much more interesting than others.
This class was relatively low in workload, but relied a lot on your ability to look deeper into things that really have no meaning. I now know more about the classification of folklore than the actual stories themselves.
Easy course, but the subject matter is rather dull.
There is a lot of reading, so I would only take it if interested in the subject.
fun! opens your mind
This is a wonderful choice for Culture and Belief. The teaching staff is considerate and among the best I've worked with at Harvard. Professor Mitchell genuinely tries to integrate contemporary examples of folklore into his lectures.
This class is meant more for concentrators, and teaches you how to look at folklore and mythology, rather than giving you an overall survey of them. That said, Professor Mitchell is enthusiastic and involved in his teaching, so take it if you want a relatively painless gen ed class.
This class is a fairly painless way to satisfy the Culture & Belief language requirement, especially if you aren't interested in taking a class in the comparative study of religion. However, make sure you're actually interested in the study of folklore, because otherwise the major assignments (collections of 5 items of folklore with an analytical essay) will be quite annoying.
This class is good if you want to fulfill the Culture and Belief General Education Requirement.  The concepts, however, are very abstract, which can make this class unnecessarily frustrating, although it is not that difficult.  Professor Mitchell is entertaining, as is some of the material.
It was an interesting class if you stayed on top of your work and reading. Lecture was not important or necessary, but if you want to get the most out of it, I recommend sitting in or near the front so that you will pay attention. It's not hard reading and the assignments are not demanding at all, but grading is really subjective and it's easy to fall behind on reading when you have other classes that are less lenient and forgiving. Do the reading and join a study group for the midterm and final, these things will save you.
Pretty relaxed class and the professor makes class interesting.
Very easy core. Be warned, though, there's very little reading of actual folklore or mythology; the emphasis is more theoretical.
One of the easiest classes at Harvard
This course is great, but probably only for a certain kind of person (though anyone can gain something from it). You should be willing to see questions as open-ended - there is not always a definite answer in folklore, and you might leave with more question marks floating in your head than you came in with.
Do not take this course simply as a core. Unless you are interested in Scandanavia, do not take this course
This is a great way to get the Culture and Belief Gen. Ed. finished, and at the same time have a lot of fun. I know I was skeptical going in, but I quickly realized how enjoyable and informative the class really is, so long as you get through the first couple readings.
Make sure you join a study group. The class is really about folklore as a study, not as much about different folktales and how they have progressed through time.
You will learn some interesting things in this class, and at its core the topic is cool (witchcraft, urban/campus legends, etc.) but be aware that much of the things you learn will be about what the field of folklore & mythology is all about, its history, various theories of categorizing folklore and its origins, etc.  Also, the main assignments are to do "collections" where you ask people you know about their customs, superstitions, etc., and then write analytical essays about them.  Professor Mitchell is a cool guy.
When I looked at the Q guide for this class, the most frequent report I saw was "painless." This class is indeed painless. Painless if you don't mind learning a lot of terminology before understanding why it should matter. Painless if you don't mind confusing lectures where what the professor is saying usually doesn't mirror the slides. Painless if you disagree with a lot of the theories being presented but don't mind not having a deep outlet to express your frustration.
This is an interesting course with great lectures and engaging topics.
Take it for an easy core. But at least for me, not the most enjoyable class.
I would tell them that its a very easy class and it fulfills a gen ed requirement but i did not find the course material interesting so it made it very difficult to pay attention
You must understand that this course focuses on the STUDY of folklore and mythology, not the fun part of learning folklore and mythology. That's an aesthetic interpretation class, I think.
Don't go in expecting to read fairy tales. And don't be surprised when the fairy tales aren't your favorite part of the course, because there's a lot of other cool stuff. Highly recommend for a fun/painless way to fulfill the core/gen-ed.
Get ready for a lot of theoretical stuff at the start and actual interesting concrete information in the second half of class.  Oh, and spelling any of the countless Scandinavian names....good luck!
It's a very interesting class and Dr. Mitchell is the most amazing teacher ever.  Just don't think you will be studying Greek mythology or anything- you are studying the CONCEPT of folklore.
This course is more work than expected when the collections roll around, and there is more theory then I expected (although the harder stuff didn't really come up on the exams).  Very US and Western-centric.
the ability to write an incredible amount of bullshit is necessary for success in this class. In order to do well, you need to be able to suspend reality. My best papers for this class were written when i would say to myself that "None of this matters and is a bunch of crap but putting that aside heres what they want me to say" before starting to write.
The class is quite easy, but overall rather tedious.
A very painless core. The exams are straightforward, and the lectures are funny.
If you are expecting a course where you learn a bunch of cool myths and legends, this course isn't it. This course puts more emphasis on the classification and structure of folklore rather than the stories themselves.
N/A
If you're interested in the subject and have time to do the readings, it is definitely worth taking.
If you do the readings, get involved in section discussions, and, most importantly, convince yourself that the subject is not a complete waste of your time but rather find some way to make it important to yourself, then you will probably gain something from this course. Don't set out with the mindset that it is silly or fluffy, but rather approach it with excitement and you will probably enjoy it.
Just keep in mind that this is more theoretical than actually reading/analyzing folklore
Keep up with the readings, etc. because they are crucial to doing well on the midyear and final exams, which are a huge chunk of your grade.
medium amount of reading, pretty interesting material, not too much writing, collections are fun even if somewhat difficult.
easy but a complete dud
Do not take this course. You will be wasting your time and money. The importance of folklore studies is unquestionable, but the way this class is taught absolutely destroy all urgency to this study.
It's a great introductory class to folklore & mythology.
A great class to take f you are looking for a general education requirement. But also if you are looking for an interesting elective course.
I wouldn't recommend taking this course unless you like analysis and studying courses with gray areas. Some of the material is really interesting and you learn to look at folklore from a new perspective, but there is a lot of attempting vague definitions and formulating theories.
I would say that it is a good introduction into the field of Folklore and Mythology
not a breeze...but fairly low workload
This class is really fun, even if it doesn't stray far from the prototypical Harvard class.  Steve Mitchell is a really interesting lecturer and a very nice man.  Be sure to become his friend.
An easy way to fulfill a requirement, but not a class which will capture your imagination.
The course covers interesting material and interesting ideas--especially anthropological theory--but you have to do the readings.  There is a lot of reading and if you get behind it will be really hard to catch up, so stay on top of it.
It's not as easy as other people might say.
You're going to learn a lot of surprising things you wouldn't otherwise, and it's a nice break from pset classes.
I would recommend it only to people who wanted to find an easy class. It gave me some perspective, but not enough so that I would recommend taking an entire semester dedicated to folklore.
It's a pretty fun class and relatively low workload. The only caveat is that the curve is incredibly high because of the easiness of the class.
Don't be fooled by the course description, the class is really very dry, with the main focus on defining terms and laying the groundwork for the concentration.  Don't do much if any readings of myths or stories, but instead work a lot on sentence structure, defining words, and folklore theories.
Reading the readings and going to all of the lectures will greatly help you in this class.
Folk and Myth is very up in the air, but it's a good course that makes you think about all the possible meanings and definitions in a piece of folklore.
This course sounds pretty easy and somewhat interesting, but there was so much busy work to do and so much weird material, I definitely would think before taking it.
The course does not have a lot of focus on folklore. The course mainly focuses on ways to analyze folklore, which while interesting, doesn't seem to adequately fulfill a literature and art requirement. I was actually really excited to learn some folklore and myths... this course was definitely NOT that.
The latter half of the course is a lot more interesting--especially with the college lore, because it is so relevant to the Harvard community. The best part of the class is the collections--because they encourage you to go out and get to uncover so much more about Harvard. You learn a lot about why certain clubs or organizations have had such sustainable success. However, the ballads and folk art parts may be less fascinating and relevant. The lectures are also a bit all over the place, but the professor is one of the nicest at Harvard! He also really knows so much about folklore and it's really enjoyable when he shares stories.
The class is poorly taught and the item collecting exercises are pointless and time consuming
