Great class! Professor Robson is a fantastic lecturer, and he is great at making the topics both interesting and memorable. He also ties the traditions back to examples in today's world, and it's really interesting to see how everything links back to religion.
take this class
CB 33 was a great elective with a relatively low workload; however, I definitely learned a lot and genuinely enjoyed going to class. Professor Robson is incredibly enthusiastic about the material, which makes lectures much more interesting.
If you want a low stress class that is fun and interesting, look no further! You don't even have to be particularly interested in the subject-- just one lecture and you'll have caught on to the enthusiasm that Professor Robson imparts-- it's contagious!
Overall, this class was enjoyable, interesting, and not too stressful at all. It's eye-opening to study these religious traditions that we typically do not learn about in Western education. The evaluation format was really fairtwo tests and one paper made a lot of sense, rather than three tests or three papers. Exams are easy enough as long as you study the guides, and there were a lot of final paper topics to choose from at the end of the course. Lectures sometimes dragged, but overall Robson is an awesome lecturer. If you can take the course with Rory as your TF, do it - he was awesome, and made learning the material so much better.
This is a great class if you are interested in Eastern religions and like a bit of philosophy. Workload very manageable and interesting readings. No busy work.
This course is brilliant!  Easily my favorite course of the semester and maybe even the past year!  It goes so much deeper than a mere factual introduction to the various religions of East Asian, but connects them to wider issues of religious and social theory regarding defining religion, civil interaction with it within a pluralistic society and much more!
It's pretty chill and Prof. Robson is a fun guy and a great lecturer. Definitely a great way to get your CB req out of the way and you can learn a lot if you want to. Be a little wary of the final paper because it can creep up on you, but otherwise great course and highest recommendations.
Very interesting class that isn't very intense workload wise.
Be prepared to take quick notes! This class was a really nice way to learn about the religious traditions in East Asia and have definitely helped me understand the cultures of India, China and Japan much more than before. The midterms are generally painless with a bit of study, and the final paper requires a fair bit of work to write a good essay, but I found it really fun to be able to synthesize what we had learnt in the course. You are also able to develop your own question for the final essay, which was great because I could really explore a specific part of the course (modern practices vs. beliefs) that I found most interesting.
Overall, an easy gened. Workload is light and exams are easy. Beware of the final paper, though. Speak up in section and you'll do fine. Lectures can get very, very dry.
It's an incredibly interesting class that will greatly change your understanding of East Asian religions.
This class is not too demanding, and serves as a nice mental break, because you are learning about something that is truly unique.
Unless you are very interested in East Asian religions this class will be very boring
The course made me really appreciate the depth of religion in East Asia that is hardly known in the West. Here, our culture perpetuates simplistic, stereotypical notions of what Buddhism and Daoism really are. This has helped me understand my heritage, family practices, and modern Chinese culture far better.
This class was great. Robson is a super interactive professor. Lectures were great but since they were 1.5 hours, I got super bored at the last half hour. I felt like sometimes the lectures dragged on as well but it was interesting so I guess it wasn't so bad. The quizzes or "exams" are SUPER fair. You have 2 exams and a final paper-which is pretty flexible. The readings were also okay but I mostly skimmed them cause they were just too much. Also GET RORY FOR SECTION. He's amazing! Seriously is one of the reasons why the exams were doable. He really knows his stuff and breaks it down for non-eastasian religion experts. Also he's a fair grader!! #teamrory all day everyday. Take the class if you want low stress but be prepared to be bored at times and even get confused about what things mean anymore.
Take this class! It is very low stress so you can focus on learning and enjoying the material instead of worrying about grades or work.
Very interesting class. I like Robson a lot as a teacher and person.
This class is very well organized and run.  I would suggest taking it for the culture and belief requirement.  Robson is so amazing and enthusiastic that you will leave the course thinking you know everything there is to know about East Asian religious traditions.
It's a good class with a moderate amount of work.
This is a great CB/SW Gen Ed!! It's low work-load, you learn a lot, and the subject matter is interesting.
This was a great way to fulfill Soc World or Culture and Belief.  It was an interesting class that made me think more about my own views on the world and opened my mind to new ideas.  Lectures were very interesting.  The TFs were very good.  Not much work at all, as you don't really have to do the readings.  But if you don't do the readings during the course, be prepared to spend a lot of time on your final paper.
Very, very chill way to satisfy a Gen Ed requirement. The workload is minimal (two straightforward in class quizzes, one final paper, and semi-optional readings), but at the same time the material is quite interesting. I definitely walked away from the class with a greater appreciation of religion and East Asian culture in general. The section leaders are also uniformly awesome and helpful!
That you will learn about world religions that are very prominent in some parts of the world!
This is an excellent way to fulfill a Gen Ed while having a relatively light workload. Matt Hamm is the most amazing TF and grades really leniently. It's really easy to fall behind in this class because the lectures are super detailed (though very interesting bc Prof. Robson is a great teacher) and you can get lost. However, despite that, you can only study like 2 hours for the exam and get A's. Would definitely recommend.
This is a cool class! You'll learn a lot about the subject material, and it's not too much work.
This class is great! It does slow down a bit in the middle if you don't keep up with the reading, but Professor Robson is a great lecturer- try to stay engaged during class! Philip is a phenomenal TF
In my opinion the lectures were fairly boring. But overall, a pretty easy class that also manages to teach you a ton. Great Gen-Ed.
This class is excellent and should be taken if you have any interest in religion and culture.
Its a very interesting and fun class
This is a great way to fulfill the Culture and Belief Gen Ed. It gives a great overview of some of the cultural traditions in East Asia, dispels some of the misinterpretations of the religions there, and is generally a interesting, but not terribly time consuming, class.
Low workload but a ton of learning-- even when you're not realizing it. Learning about such different perspectives literally changed the way i looked at the world.
Perfect balance of low workload and interesting material. Lots of really interesting stuff in lecture and the readings -- James is an extremely impassioned lecturer with a lot of cool experiences. Matt is the best TF I've had in a class at Harvard.
This class is interesting, but your effort is not necessarily connected to your grade. You can receive the same grade with very little effort, which incentivizes working hard.
Enroll for the easy workload, stay for the potentially life-changing insights into religion and the importance of the questions one can ask about it
The course was easy to keep up with, but it's useful to take notes so that the midterms and essay are a lot easier to do.
Great class - interesting stuff and wicked easy.  Midterms don't even require any reading but the final paper takes some work.  Robson and his cohort are super fun, so class is entertaining and interesting.
Great GenEd! Professor Robson was a really good lecturer and was very enthusiastic and engaging. Not a lot of work. Midterms were straightforward, as was the final essay.
This is a gem of a gen ed class. Robson makes the material very interesting. Readings are assigned but you never need to do them, as they do not appear on the exams. Workload is light, just 2 exams and a final paper, so its a pretty chill class. Definitely recommend to add as an easy 5th class.
I took this course as a GenEd, but ended up really enjoying it. There are a lot of readings, but most of them are really interesting, and most of the material in them is covered in lecture anyway. There are no assignments other than the in-class exams, which were pretty easy, and the final paper, so this is a great course to balance out a heavy course load.
The course was a pretty decent introduction to East Asian Religions. Even though it uses Canvas, grading was really nebulous. Make sure you section TF is good--that can make or break this course.
If you are enthusiastic about religion, this is a fantastic introduction to a religious world that might seem confusing or impossible to understand without the proper background knowledge. Highly rewarding and practically useful to any citizen of the world.
This course offers an accessible general introduction to religious studies in East Asia, focusing on Buddhism, Confucianism (briefly), Daoism, Zen Buddhism, Shinto, and Chinese and Japanese folk religious practices. It combines a wide variety of media to achieve this end, including rap songs, film clips, documentary footage of monks and monastery life, key scriptures of Buddhism, masterpieces of ancient Chinese philosophy (you get to read the Daodejing, Analects, portions of Mencius, and Zhuangzi), a famous modern Japanese novel (Endo's "Silence"), and several fascinating photographs taken by the professor on his extensive trips through China and Japan. In that sense it truly is "General Education." The movement of the course is roughly diachronic and North/East-ward, from pre-Buddhist indigenous religious concepts of the Indian subcontinent, through Daoism and traditions of China across its dynastic history, to the shifting roles and guises of religions in the modern era of Japan. It's a lot of ground to cover. James Robson is eloquent, widely learned, and has a heart. His lectures are carefully made to complement the reading material. Unlike some professors at Harvard, Robson makes sure not to merely repeat what the assigned articles already say. He also manages to share his own research (he is a world expert on Daoism) with us without making it look like he is showing off. So that's a treat.  The Teaching Fellows were very well-selected, at least those I talked to (Phillip, Charlie). They really care about you and about the course. Minor objections: A bit problematically, the class name was somewhat complicit with the very categorical and limiting view of religions that Robson so persuasively shows to be a Western misconception. I would have liked the name of the class to be East Asian Religious TRADITIONS, as having "traditions" in only the subtitle really demotes its significance more than is necessary. Consistent with this, I found the tone of some lectures to be a bit more reductionist than they might have been. The class hardly covered the hermeneutic aspect of religious studies that Robson promised us in the syllabus, which is a bit of a let-down. It was latent in some moments, such as the discussion of koans, and the parables of the Sutras, but could have been brought out more. Robson is definitely capable of crafting subtle narratives, as he is a natural storyteller, with a sense of timing and texture, and this is part of what draws everyone to his course. The best of the narrative-lectures are a joy to follow. I felt that Robson held back, however, from exercising his capacity to its fullest in the class, choosing instead to dramatize how much we, as for the most part first-time readers of many religious texts, could get out of it. This choice worked at times, to be fair, especially if he actually read a passage (such as the Cook Ding from the Zhuangzi) aloud and then asked people to pitch in with close reading observations. But I often felt Robson would have been more interesting on his own. His on-and-off experiment in trying to engage the students impromptu, and quiz us on readings at random points in lecture, did not work so well with a class where, in addition to the emergent factor of diffused responsibility that comes from having 100+ students, many did not expect to give so much effort to the readings because they saw the course as a Gen Ed with lower work requirements. However, I think this Q&A technique might have been more effective if A) it was only used at the end of the lecture rather than throughout, B) students' participation in lecture was more clearly made part of their grade, and/or C) the class size were brought under 60 with a lottery. Overall, either way I would have liked to hear Robson talk more about his own insights into the texts. Otherwise, great class. Very memorable.
Overall this is a good course if you're interested in East Asia in general. Robson is an engaging lecturer even if 1.5 hour long lectures can be a bit much at times. Readings are pretty optional so this is a good gened with a low workload.
You won't regret taking it.
Honestly such a great class. Did not require me to put in too much extra work and really enjoyable every time I went to class. Definitely take it if you have a heavier course load. Also it is super interesting. Robson is a great lecturer, really makes it feel personal and is just so interesting! do the readings for yourself.
Fantastic class. Not too time consuming and Professor Robson is a great guy. Matt Hamm is a phenomenal TF.
The course is a great way to fulfill your gen-ed requirement. The lectures are very engaging and sections are very helpful. The exams are also very fair, centered on basic lecture material. You do need to pay attention in lecture though.
Low workload; interesting material; great teaching staff; 2 straightforward quizzes and one not as straightforward final essay (TFs really enjoyed helping with the essay though); Robson is one of the most passionate lecturers and may actually make you want to do the readings, also makes me wish I went to his office hours and just chilled with him because he just seems so cool and definitely has really interesting stories to tell.
The fact that there is no final is a game-changer and clears the Gen Ed of CB quite well.
Pretty chill class, a lot of interesting material with a great professor. Enjoyable class to attend, but can, albeit not often, get confusing if you don't do the readings.
Robson is incredible! It's a great way to get a gen ed and learn about new cultures!
This class is a great way to knock out the CB or SW gen ed requirement: Prof. Robson is extremely knowledgeable about all of the topics and has done a lot of his own research. The courseload is relatively light, but definitely pay attention in lecture and take detailed lecture notes to study for the two exams, as sometimes the readings can get confusing and Robson's explanations touch on important concepts and terms that are tested on.
This class is great if you are looking to fill a gen ed requirement. Professor Robson is a great lecturer and keeps you very interested. The course requires little to no work on a week to week basis. There are two midterms which are very easy if you pay attention in section and review the material. Take this class
This class is fantastic, if you have ever been interested in East Asian Religions, or just want a fun elective with a minimal workload, definitely take this class
Definitely a good course to fulfill the gen-ed if you don't want to take a more serious CB
This class is extremely interested with a great instructor and you will love it!
The lectures are interesting and it provides students who have little to know background in these religions with a great foundation of their development.
A great gened. Mangeable and interesting. Robson is engaging and this class will make you think more deeply about religions and how history has shaped our understanding of them.
Great class to get a summary of a very important topic
It's a pretty interesting course. You need to go to all the lectures. You can't miss a lecture, but the course is pretty easy and straightforward. Final paper is a pain though...
This actually is a very interesting class, and teaches you a lot about the cultural and religious environment of East Asia throughout history. It's pretty well structured in terms of topics, but the individual lectures and readings are sometimes hard to follow. Exams are very fair, and the paper topics were engaging.
Make sure you go to class everyday, for lecture is really interesting.
Very easy and interesting class. Midterms are no problem and the final essay is easy and fun. Exposure to cool ways of thinking, and great as a Gen Ed.
The lectures are an hour and a half - this is a bit too long in my opinion. Make sure you can tolerate listening to someone lecture for that long. They have a mandatory attendance policy, so be warned.
Don't try to deeply read every reading. Look over them and definitely look through them, but often lecture is a better explanation.
This class is exceptional in nearly every way.  Professor Robson is a fascinating, hilarious, and brilliant lecturer who made me excited to go to lecture every time.  Additionally, the subject matter is universally relevant and will force you to question the trajectory of your life. The workload is very manageable and the two midterms are not hard at all.  Take this class!
Because Robson assigns a lot of readings, many people didn't even do them. Also, considering there are two midterms and only one final paper, many people just crammed for those midterms and so I, for one, really didn't absorb much from the class. I think if one were to invest him/herself in this class, they would really enjoy it.
Easy class, not the easiest Gen Ed because you have to go to lecture and it's not recorded.  Didn't love it, kind of a hassle in general.  And it's not even graded that kindly.
A fairly well-designed course on the subject. Certainly quite interesting, though I think both lecture and the readings were a bit ambitious. Be warned that you will probably not be able to do all the readings unless he trims them down, which is unfortunate because I'm sure they would enrich the experience. If you were to do all of them, then it would probably take you a good 6-7 hours at least per week, usually more. Lecture also has a tendency to drag on a bit, but in the end you really do feel like you learned a lot!
Interesting material, light courseload.
Not super time consuming, relatively easy, pretty good gen ed overall, relatively interesting material, well taught.
Incredible class.Professor Robson is an extremely nice, smart person with engaging and funny lectures.Workload is very manageable (some readings each week).
Robson is by far and away one of the most interesting people I've ever met. He's incredibly knowledgable and passionate about East Asian religions, and I was constantly amazed by his unflagging energy in lectures. This class is great for anyone interested in religion, and also makes a good easy course complement to a difficult semester.
Easy and interesting gen ed- everything you could ever ask for!
Robson is such a great lecturer and the class overall is not demanding at all. You will really develop and interest in these religions (even if you didn't have any prior).
This course is pretty easy, but make sure you at least do some of the readings and pay attention in lecture, so that the final paper is not extremely difficult.
You should definitely take this class if you are interested at all in East Asian religions.
Really light workload, however I advise keeping up with the readings otherwise studying for exams and writing the final paper is very difficult.
This class is a gem! The midterms are easy and the final paper is manageable.
It's very easy throughout the course and you can cram the night before an exam and still get an A. However, it benefits you much more to do the reading throughout to be prepared to write your final essay. Robson is a charismatic guy and Philip knows what he's doing as head TF. Take this class to fulfill either Societies of the World or Culture and Belief requirements.
Professor is the most engaging I have ever had in terms of lecture delivery. His passion is apparent and makes material come to life.
The workload of the class is not bad at all, but it can be dense at times.  Overall, the readings and topics are interesting for the most part and you should take this class if you want a manageable gen ed requirement.
This class was great! The readings were for the most part enjoyable, and lectures synthesized a lot of information that may not have been available elsewhere. If you hate learning about new cultures and belief systems, you probably won't like this class. But if you think they are at all interesting, this is a really great way to get Gen Ed requirements out of the way. Very, very interesting!
Very interesting course
Do your readings and if you don't, don't try to make up stuff in section. It is not helpful, confusing, misleading, and can make people who actually did the reading look stupid and like they are not correct.
It is very interesting and even if you are unsure, definitely worth taking. You learn about many things you haven't been exposed to likely and it opens how to think about things.
This is a great class to fulfill the culture and belief gen ed. I enjoyed the course material and was generally interested in the class. I would recommend this to anyone looking to knock out a C&B gen ed relatively easily.
This course will open your eyes to a completely different way of thinking, especially if you don't have previous exposure to East Asian religions. So interesting!
A very interesting and intriguing course, creates a very in depth look into what makes up East Asian religion.
It's a great introduction course to east asian religions. For the scope of the course, the material is sufficient, but because it is an introductory course that is also its limitation.
The material covered is really interesting and the workload is reasonable. Lectures are worth attending as a lot of the material necessary for the course is divulged.
Really interesting Gen Ed with some mind-blowing readings. A perfect opportunity to learn about an entirely different religious perspective that you do not want to miss. Professor Robson is as smart as they come and very excited to meet to chat or answer questions. Also a great class for anyone interested in modern Asia, because it is a vital perspective in understanding that part of the world today. Beware: Tough papers on some very abstract concepts.
This class is really great! Take it! Robson is a great lecture and you learn some incredibly fascinating things. Not too much reading and for the most part they are enjoyable anyway. Light workload outside of that. I highly, highly recommend!!
This is a fun and painless way to fill a general education requirement
Light workload, very interesting professor, non-mandatory lectures. Don't need to do the readings until it comes time to write the papers.
This class provides a great introduction to (for the most part) Chinese and Japanese religious traditions and their philosophical roots. Professor Robson gives great lectures, and really weaves together the different pieces of history and culture into a fascinating story. I'd especially recommend it if you're interested in getting a broader perspective on how these countries' religious and cultural roots played a part in shaping China and Japan today.
The material is great, but the way in which it is presented minimizes enthusiasm. It is easy to lose focus during Robson's lectures since they lack visual aids. Ninety minute lectures quickly get tiresome when you only have the professor's voice to concentrate on.
the class is a good class, but the lectures are a bit boring. the section is where you learn most everything.
If you're looking for a brief introduction to both the concept of religion (the interplay between culture, tradition, and beliefs) and various South and East Asian religions in pretty good depth, this is for you. The workload is relatively light, but if you skimp on readings or lectures you'll miss out on a lot of the course.
You technically don't have to do much work for the course, but if you come to lectures and do the readings, it can really broaden the way you look at the world.
Easy, but informative class.  Robson is a great lecturer and the material's pretty interesting when you can get around to reading it.
Fun and moderately easy!
This course really gives a good overview of the East Asian Religions and it's a great class if you have any interest in the subject. The readings are interesting, though some of them are quite dense.
Being a complete novice regarding East Asian religion, I enjoyed this course probably more than those who had some sort of background knowledge in Buddhism, Daoism, etc.  I was unfamiliar with ideas such as reincarnation, the Dao, filiality, and the Dalai Lama, and after taking this course I feel like I can talk knowledgeably and think critically about all of these.  Near the end of the semester, I visited a Buddhist site in Boston for extra credit.  There I was able to easily hold up a half-hour conversation with a Buddhist leader regarding a Buddhist sect which was not even covered in this course.  My favorite part about this was seeing the connection between this branch of Buddhism and religion from India, China, Tibet, and Japan, effectively connecting everything I have learned in this course in order to critically think about this form of Buddhism during my visit.  The development of religion is a beautiful thing, and as a science concentrator taking this as a first humanities course at Harvard, am I thoroughly satisfied with the critical thinking skills provided by this course in studying the growth and development of religion.
Easy class, learn a lot of very interesting stuff. Teaching staff excellent
Professor Robson is awesome and the subject material is very interesting.
take this class! great gen ed and actually genuinely interesting. Robson is great but section TFs vary a lot
not necessarily easy... but still easy
I think this is one of the most interesting ways to fulfill the CB requirement.  Robson holds your attention for the entire lecture... essays are do-able and offer a lot of choice.
It is an intellectually stimulating class that covers a lot of material. The workload is manageable and sections are fun.
Great lectures!
This is a very interesting course that covers many different East Asian Religions. It may seem like a lot of sources to go through in the course readings, but you can skim them to gain a general sense and then go through in detail on the ones needed for the essays. If you are looking for a fun, relatively easy gened, would highly recommend.
This class is interesting but goes very in depth.  Make sure you are very interested in the study of asian religions before taking this class.
This is an extremely well taught and interesting class if you are interested in learning about Asian religion and culture.
Attend lectures. They really do help you prepare for exams and papers.
You will learn a ton about a subject that is generally misconstrued in the West. Assignments are mostly reading, so you will get out as much as you put in.
A solid introduction to East Asian religions.  Not in-depth enough probably for people who are majoring in religious studies, but you still learn a lot.  Not too challenging, but still worth taking.  A great class.  Buddhism is pretty solid.
Great class. Painfree way to fulfill a GenEd while also learning more about parts of the world most of us aren't exposed to in the course of our education.
You should go to the lectures. They are actually interesting and would help a lot with the essays.
It is a pretty easy, laid back class that will provide you with a good overview of Religion in east asia and the study of these religions. If you're looking for a relaxed class but still learn lots of valuable and interesting things, this is a good class.
It's wonderful - changes the way you think about Eastern religions, and religious philosophy in general
Great GenEd. Not much work, but the essays are time-consuming. Lectures are very long and sometimes difficult to follow, but, overall, I really enjoyed this course.
This class is interesting, well run, and fair. It covers a lot of material and is a good way to compelte your CB requirement.
Interesting material, not too much work, definitely take it if you're interested in learning about the study of east Asian religion.
James Robson is an excellent lecturer. You will learn a lot about East Asian religions and enjoy it in the process.
It was a very interesting class, for a gen ed it was fairly painless.
This class is extremely interesting and you learn so much, but only if you put in the effort to do the readings and go to lectures. It is also relatively easy to get a good grade without doing much work outside of class.
The work isn't challenging but it also wasn't that stimulating. Only take if you have genuine interest in East Asian Religions.
Robson is a great lecturer, and this is a good intro class for anyone who doesn't have any background in east asian religions. However, grading can be quite arbitrary for both the exam and the papers.
This is a nice interesting class to fulfill a Gen Ed. As long as there is some interest in the subject it good.
You will get out of it what you want. I loved the class and learning about religions, but you have to pay attention and do most of the readings to really learn. The lectures can be a bit tedious, and depending on your TF it may not be as easy an A as you're hoping. The essays are hard, but the exam is really easy. There are a lot of readings. Robson is very friendly and approachable.
Not a lot of work, just paying attention in lecture will teach you a lot. For the essays you will need to read the relevant materials. There isn't too much reading, but there's a good amount and it can get pretty dense. Definitely an easier class though.
if you have a difficult course load, take this class. rarely did the readings after the only test, but its possible to do well on the papers without reading. also, its an interesting topic! so its a win-win situation.
This class is awesome
This class is really interesting! I learned a lot and the assignments were enjoyable!
It is definitely a great class!
A good and interesting class. It definitely gets you thinking on a different level towards religion and the readings help to give you a new world view.
Easy, interesting class. Make sure you're interested in religion and the history of religion before you take this class.
Interesting class that covers a lot of material. You learn a lot about east asian religions, since you cover so many different eras and traditions. Exams, papers were also very fair.
Professor Robson is awesome, the course material is fascinating. Take this class if you have any interest in E. Asian religions.
Do as much of the readings as slowly and thoroughly as you can. The more and the more in-depth you read, the more you will get out of this course.
The readings in this course are incredibly interesting. Since the lectures often reference particular topics in the readings, it is in your favor to read and understand what is assigned.
It is more work than originally anticipated, even though the assignments are short. You can get by with just doing the assignments, but you won't take nearly as much away from the course as you could.
Take this course! This is one the best courses I have taken while at Harvard! It is super interesting and Professor Robson is hilarious!
Great professor, be sure to go to OHs to get to know him!  And try to get a good TF, otherwise section can be quite miserable.  Do the key readings that Professor Robson points out in class and you'll get a lot more out of the class
Choose your TF wisely!
So, this class isnt the most engaging. Lecture can be boring and section can be very boring. But, you get out of it what you put in. I definitely learned a lot, especially on the topics that i wrote my papers on and can now knowledgeably discuss the basics east asian religions...a fairly painless gen ed
Interesting and easy gen-ed course
Great Culture and Belief class, especially if you are interested in getting an overview of multiple Asian religions. Although some of the readings could be quite dense, the workload was light and reasonable. However, keep in mind that the class goes a lot deeper than meditation and yoga, so make sure you are interested in the philosophy and historical developments of Asian religions.
very engaging subject matter - definitely learn a lot!
It definitely teaches you to view other religions differently. At the beginning of the course, I remember thinking, though cheesy, that I wanted the course to "change my life." I really think it has-- in that it has made me think about things differently and with an open mind-- but the class is definitely what you make of it. The effort you put into the class affects how involved you are, and you reap the rewards of your effort.
Great professor, with entertaining lectures. However, you will read more secondary sources with lots of words ending in 'isms' than primary religious texts. Be careful which tf you get, I had a REALLY bad one.
Do it! GREAT PROFESSOR and interesting material. Not a lot of work. Fulfills culture and belief or societies of the world with a focus on the past...I think you know you want to take this course...
This course is thought really well. the TF's and Professor Robson are incredible. It  was a great learning experience and thoroughly enjoyable.
Ridiculously easy GenEd. Seriously, it's not even fair. You can literally spend 1 hour on this class a week (not go to lecture, not do the readings, just go to section) and still do well in the course. And if you do put in more time, you still won't regret it because the material can be really interesting.
Professor Robson is great!  As is the rest of the teaching staff.
though it is easy it is intriguing material and you will NOT get board. Great Gen Ed
This course provides a very good introduction to the study of East Asian Religions, especially considering its constraints of a single semester (covering several millennium).  If you are even remotely interested in this area of study, I recommend you take this class.  Only take this class if you think you would be interested in learning about it, not because it is "easier" than other Gen Eds.  If you go in with the wrong mindset, you will be surprised to find it is in fact much more difficult.
This is a great class to learn about East Asian religions. Prof Robson is funny and a great lecturer.  If you think about getting CB requirement out of the way, just take this course. painless and you learn a lot!
Professor Robson is awesome. You should definitely take this class if you're interested in getting a great overview of the history, development and beliefs of East Asia.
I was exposed to information that is very foreign to Western culture. I would recommend this class because of how interesting it is and because of its also fairly easy.
This course is the best Gen Ed you will ever find.  Not only is it interesting, but it is incredibly easy.
This class would be much better with great TFs, but from what I heard, none of the TFs seemed well-suited for the class. The readings were very abstract and I never fully understood any of them. There are only three papers for this class, so it's easy in that sense, but the grading is very subjective to the TFs.
light courseload, but some of the readings seem a bit irrelevant or difficult to get through. professor is a great lecturer.
This is a good intro class with a moderate amount of reading and just a few papers. Take it.
You will learn more than you expect.
I thought this course would be more historical-based.  It was like this in the beginning of the course, but gradually moved to a very religious/philosophy based teaching, which I am not interested in at all.  Also, don't fall behind in the readings.
It definitely gives you the knowledge required to begin a serious dialogue on comparing Eastern and Western theology.
The essay questions can be a little daunting, but they present opportunities to write something creative - such as a dialogue between philosophers, or creating a 21st century religion based on the course material covered.  A passing knowledge of Buddhism is extremely helpful.
It's a relatively painless way to meet a CB requirement, but it might not be as interesting if you're not fascinated by East Asian religion or religion in general.
This is a great introduction to East Asian religions with a cool and impressive professor. You really walk away with a better understanding of these traditions and the misconceptions the western world has regarding them. You also learn how to reflect upon the philosophies presented and apply them back to modern times and your personal experiences. Everyone should know about the material in this class!
Great class, make sure you do some of the readings to be prepared for section. Perfect gen ed for C&B
Its a pretty easy way to fulfill a gen ed
This is a very good class if you're interested in getting a broad overview of east Asian Religions. Though the reading can be heavy at times, the workload is pretty fair - there's no exams and only three papers. Definitely worth taking if you're at all interested in the material.
One of the most interesting classes I've taken. Professor Robson is knowledgeable and personable, and the TFs (especially Shea) are extremely helpful. Take CB33!
Take it only if you are interested in the topic!
The material is fascinating and will certainly change the way you view the world, but just be aware of the fact that this is "Introduction to THE STUDY OF Easy Asian Religions," and NOT "Introduction to East Asian Religions," meaning that you spend a lot of time talking about all sorts of extended historical developments, as well as radical changes in the religions over time and disagreements over minute philosophical details, which all make the material much more difficult to grasp. The papers are fun to write, and the workload is very manageable, aside from getting through some of the fairly sizable and often incomprehensible primary documents.
You will never feel like you are doing busy work. You will leave the course with a very solid base layer of major religions that are applicable for a gigantic portion of the world that many Westerners know little about. Expand your horizons and enjoy doing it...that's what this class offers you.
material is fascinating, well-taught. Professor Robson makes each lecture energetic and interesting. A lot of material is covered in a short semester!
A decent amount of reading, but very engaging and interesting material
The material is not that interesting and east asian relgions get sort of boring kind of quickly. However, it was a very easy gen ed, little reading, little work, easy grading. I don't regret taking it. If you really want to do very little work for a CB gened, this is a good pick.
Great course.  Professor Robson is a fantastic lecturer and the material is very interesting.  Be prepared for intriguing reading and challenging paper topics.
This course is fairly easy.  Make sure you get a good TF, though.
Take the class if you truly are interested in the East Asian Religions.
The professor is wonderful - truly a great guy and an entertaining lecturer. However, section needs to be more streamlined, and there needs to be more transparency in terms of grading.
A great way to fulfill a gen ed.  The class was quite enjoyable.
the professor was amazing.  the topics discussed were equally as amazing.
This class was very interesting and not that difficult.  The professor is a great lecturer and keeps you interested.
get a good tf!
If you're extremely interested in learning about east-asian religions through a lot of reading of primary and secondary sources then go for it. But otherwise the amount of readings and the sometimes dense philosophical material can become overwhelming and it's very easy to get left behind and feel very lost.
I have never taken a class on religion before, but this class was definitely a solid introduction to East Asian religions. Lectures were a little confusing, though, and the material sometimes was very dense.
I found the sections to be unenlightening and uninteresting. Our TF asked questions and seemed to expect only the "right" answer. Our TF also appeared very closed minded when rejecting one of my thesis ideas that I had actually liked - I ended up with some other thesis that I myself did not quite believe. I also got the impression that the TF did not read my paper too carefully from the feedback. I am sure the TF is a perfectly nice person, but this TF was my least favorite TF I have had at Harvard. I suspect the other TFs were better though.That being said, Professor Robson is a great lecturer. He presents the material in an interesting fashion. The material in itself was fascinating to me, and I did learn a lot. I just wish the TF was better.If you end up with any other TF than mine and you are good at writing papers (papers are pretty much all of your grade), take it. If not... well, I am not sure since the TF is horrible, but the professor is pretty good.
Most of the readings are short, and they can easily be skimmed if you look at them!  Keep up with the readings and it'll be easier to do the essays.  Also, talk to your TF (multiple times) before handing in the papers.
I would tell them that the course is great, so long as they get a good TF.
I recommend this class to anyone who is interested in learning about the main religions of Asia.
If you need to fulfill your Core/CenEd or EAS secondary req, I highly recommend this course. The professor is animated and knowledgeable, and the material is engaging and not too difficult to discuss -- hard to truly understand perhaps for those who have yet to achieve enlightenment, but by no means impenetrable.
This class did not require a lot of outside time but you get to grapple with some really interesting historical religious concepts that have an impact in today's contemporary world. I found the course an excellent introduction to religions I had never studied in depth before. Buddhism, Daoism, Hinduism, Shinto and popular religions.
Great way to fulfill core - you'll learn some good stuff in an engaging way and will do so without much stress
Good, but not necessarily the most interesting class ever - can probably get the pertinent information from reading a good book about the subject instead
Really interesting course. Just make sure you stay on top of the readings. I never went to Professor Robson's office hours, but I would highly suggest it because I was often confused about a lot of the material just because sooo many different religious traditions are covered that a lot of them blended together and it was difficult to keep them straight.
This class will give you a solid introduction to Asian religions. Professor Robson does a great job in presenting common perceptions about Asian religions and then revealing the truth about them.
such a good course!perfect for those taking heavy course loads in the sciences - a great introduction to these major religions with rich, thought-provoking reading materials.LECTURES are SO ENTERTAINING! go to every one- it is worth it!
VERY manageable workload. I mean, my TF told us he wanted us to take the scenic route during this course. It's an awesome class, and Professor Robson is one of the coolest people you will ever meet. I feel like everyone should know something about Asian religions.
Amazing class! You have to take it.
The class is a crapshoot.  If you get a good TF, you will love the class.  But if you get a bad TF, you will hate it.
did not go to lecture
its a great class with awesome lectures and straightforward assignments. take it.
One can take a lot simply by putting effort to do the reading assignments and listening to the lectures.
This is a fairly easy gen ed. I was able to get by without doing much of the readings and I still feel like I got something out of it.
Great gen-ed; enjoyable, low-stress, and educational. Professor Robson is a great lecturer and cares closely about his students
Professor Robson is a fantastic lecturer and he makes the course material very interesting and engaging. Moreover, his use of modern links/connections makes the class very fun.
This is a good overview of the East Asian Religions, however it does not give enough justice to each of the religions and seems to rush through various aspects.
Great Course. Take it!
Great class & a fantastic, passionate professor! A lot of assigned readings, but as with many Harvard, especially GenEd, classes, use your best judgment. You don't have to read them all to do well.
CB 33 is an excellent course that provides an insightful perspective on East Asian Religions from throughout history. The course is well-taught, has low workload, and is interesting enough to keep students awake during the semester.
The first class I regret taking at Harvard. I imagine there are much better ways to present this material, because some of the readings were interesting. Students are treated juvenilely and lectures are sensationalistic.
This class is definitely a great class. Robson is a great professor and Billy is a great TF. The workload is also fair for a gen-ed. Take this class!
be prepared for a lot of reading and rigorous section requirements
Tries to cover too much material for you to get the full picture without investing more time than you might want to in a GenEd.
I loved this class! It was fun, interesting and easy. Just keep up with the readings to a certain extent, and you'll learn a bunch. The only downside is that Professor Robson talks for 1.5 hours straight. It's a little bit much at times. But still 100% recommended! Great class!
Great course! Gives you a true introduction to the subject matter without being too intensive, Robson is an incredible lecturer!
This class serves as a great introduction into East Asian Religions without it being too stressful or workload heavy .  There is a ton of material; with that being said, it can get a bit dry if you are not interested in this topic.  Basically, don't take this course unless you are interested in the topic.
Very enjoyable class. I loved listening to the professor tell stories as part of his teaching.
This class is interesting and allows you to learn more about East Asian religions. Although it seems to be a highly specialized class with its focus on East Asian religions, students will learn a lot and will also come to question religion and how its practices are formed in general.
take it! Professor Robson is a great lecturer and the TF staff is great.
If you've taken ER 18, then it'll be like retaking the class almost. It's probably the easiest and most interesting way to get your CB requirement out of the way. Go to lecture! Professor Robson is a great speaker and is very engaging. Although it's easy to get by without putting much effort into the class, the readings are actually very interesting and you should do them. You'll learned so much more that way.
This class was really, really great.
Easy, interesting gen-ed that can count for Culture & Belief or Societies of the World. While the course covers a lot of material, Professor Robson does a good job of presenting engaging lectures. The class has minimal work out of class, but you do have to go to lectures. While there is a lot of readings, you only have to read a couple of them for the essays. Highly recommended for a gen-ed, though you should have some interest in Asia and Asian religions. I learned a lot, and will remember a lot from this class.
A pretty good class. Lectures sometimes felt like a ramble, but Professor Robson clearly cares about the course and material. Not much work at all, and if you get lucky your TF will let you write about things other than the prompt. There is a focus on history as opposed to pure philosophy though (I'd say it's 50/50 philosophy and history), so if you're looking for a purely philosophical course I'd recommend something like ER 18 (Chinese Philosophy) or CB 25 (Buddhism). In my case, my TF let me explore the philosophy more in my papers which was nice.Overall this was a good way to satisfy a gen-ed. You get out what you put into it, so if you care about the topic you'll end up learning quite a bit. If you don't care, you can still do fine in the class but might not get much out of it. Take it if you're interested in the historical contexts surrounding East Asian religions and the political issues therein!
It is a great class for an overarching scope of East Asian religions, but the class can be slow at times and not as engaging as one would like.
This course does a good job of introducing the fundamental concepts of a wide range of Asian religions. Robson oftentimes provides interesting tidbits of information during lecture and readily answers questions. However, sometimes lectures can be boring and sections can be confusing and poorly-run.
Professor Robson does a great job with this course, integrating pop culture and modern media, along with great texts and readings into a broad study of East Asian religions. The two papers are not difficult, the two quizzes are quite feasible, and the class overall is just very interesting and fun to take. Take this course if you need to fulfill your CB requirement!
Take this class! Not too much work, great lecturer, and you learn a lot!
This class has fantastic lectures, a very reasonable workload, and interesting readings. All lectures have required attendance, but they're also all worth attending.
It's a relatively easy CB course with interesting material and an engaging professor. I only wish that I could have had more time to devote to the class.
Billy was a great TF, and if he's a TF in the future, you should try to get him. He was understanding and was very reachable all the time.
Robson is a very enthusiastic instructor. The course materials are being revamped for the next year, so there might be less emphasis on having so many primary texts. It wasn't necessary to do most of the readings and still get a lot out of the course.
This is a decent class. Topics are interesting but 50% of lectures are unnecessary context and readings are not really necessary to do well. You learn a lot about the topic, which is great, and the teaching staff are great about meeting with you and excited about sharing the material!
Professor Robson is so excited about the material and he makes you get excited about it too! Fascinating lectures that always keep you interested and the way Professor Robson speaks is at once commanding and instructive. Yes, you have to come to lecture, and it's so worth it. Turns out Buddhism is radically different from what I thought it was, and better. Robson plays music in class sometimes (The Beatles, Bob Dylan, The Ramones) and it's awesome. You learn about how sumo wrestling came to be. If you need CB or SW, take this class!
This class does pretty much what its title describes. In addition to learning about various East Asian religions throughout history, an emphasis is placed on the inherent difficulties with studying "religion" and all the complex relationships between it and social, cultural, political factors. You really only need to either go to lecture or do the readings, not both. Section is relaxed and there are only two small tests and short papers, so not too bad in terms of workload, and definitely not much on a weekly basis. I had taken Buddhism and Chinese Ethical and Political Philosophy before, so it definitely makes it easier to have a background and familiarity with the subject matter, but not necessary, and some may find it a little repetitive. Overall a pretty good class.
The material in this course is very interesting. It's easy to get a good grade without doing most of the readings, but this may leave you feeling unfulfilled.
THIS COURSE IS AWESOME! TAKE IT! It has a high reward to work ratio and it is very enjoyable to go to class.
It's an interesting subject matter but very boring lectures
This is a very interesting class that gives you a perspective of a variety of different ways of thinking.
This class is a great way to get a survey of the religions of East Asia. This class is definitely for those who learn better orally - there are very few visuals, and you cannot rely on section to go over lecture material because each section is different. The readings are fair, though at times difficult to get through when you're reading philosophy or the original religious texts.
It's not bad. You will probably not hate it. You will probably also not love it, unless you are really into East Asian studies or religious studies, in which case go for it, this is a great class for you! Robson is a good professor and it's a decent class.
Great way to fill the Culture and Belief or Societies of the World Gen Ed. Professor Robson is knowledgeable, passionate about East Asian Religions, and fun. The course provides a great overview of East Asian religions, history, and cultures. It's relatively easy. You get out of it what you put into it.
I would highly recommend this course to anyone who is looking for an great course to satisfy their CB gen-ed. There is a very reasonable workload and Professor Robson is an amazing lecturer. I learned a lot about parts of the world that I had little knowledge of before.
You will learn the about East Asian religions, which are largely misunderstood. Professor Robson is an engaging lecturer and great guy. Not easy to keep track of all the traditions, but an honest academic treatment shouldn't be easy.
This course teaches interesting material, and it is quite easy if you attend lecture and put time into your papers. However, if you are someone who always wants to complete all of the readings for a course, know that you will have your hands full.
Professor Robson is a wonderful lecturer! Sections were also fun and engaging. Take this class! You'll come away learning so much about Buddhism and East Asian religions and how they relate to modern society.
Very interesting class, but be prepared to work because this class is definitely not easy or a "gem". You learn a lot, especially if you come from an East Asian religious background.
easy and interesting! Professor Robson is very passionate about his material.
This course was very low workload and very easy. However, the material wasn't presented in a particularly interesting manner. Section was not very useful, and I didn't learn much from the course.
Just read a few wikipedia articles. This class won't give you anything valuable.
This a great class. Robson is an amazing and passionate lecturer. All the section leaders are great. Course load is light and manageable. Essays for finals and midterms. No stress, lots of fun!
Professor Robson is awesome and a great lecturer. He makes the subject matter totally applicable, even if you aren't familiar with East Asian religions or religion in general.
We often ignore religions of the world beyond Western Religions (Christianity, Judaism), so this is a nice look at East Asian religion which gets more specific than any general history course you would've taken in the past. It'll make traveling to religious sites in East Asia much more interesting.
The material is super interesting and Robson is a great professor. It's a relatively painless Gen Ed and I really enjoyed learning the material. If you any interest in East Asia, I'd highly recommend it.
This class is what you make of it. If you do all of the readings and really delve into the subject you can learn a lot about East Asian culture from the spread of these religions (even how the countries developed in the region, etc). However, you can also leave the class taking away very little if you do invest yourself in it.
CB33 is a great introduction to East Asian religions and has a very light workload. If looking for a Gen Ed that is not stressful and you haven't had any exposure to this material before, I would recommend it! Word of caution: section can be dull because other people might not put a lot of effort into doing the readings since there really isn't any method of accountability until the papers roll around. Professor Robson is really nice, but he didn't always give the most stimulating lectures.
This course is a great way to fulfill the Culture and Belief Gen Ed. It doesn't require that much work; there are a lot of readings on the syllabus, but you don't need to do them all to do well on the course. Basically, you can just do the readings relevant to each paper (there are only two papers assigned). Also, you don't need to attend lecture after the first and final quiz of the course. This course requires a minimal amount of work, but if you attend lecture and stay on top of the readings, you will actually learn a lot about East Asian Religions.
I wouldn't really take this class again if I had the choice. Sure it counted as a gen ed and it wasn't difficult, but it also wasn't interesting. I don't feel like I fully understood the religions since we only heard stories in lectures. I'm still confused on what Buddhism is and I went to class every time.
Great, easy way to fulfill a Culture and Belief! I recommend highly
This class is AMAZING. Eye-opening. Transformative. Not only did this class broaden my understanding of East-Asian Religions (this class guided me from a state of no knowledge to a state where I can really converse intelligently about them now), it also equipped me with a much more critical lens towards the study of religions. The engaging lectures sparked me to contemplate many questions in and out of class - it really transformed me as an individual. Moreover, the workload isn't taxing, but still a serious student would want to engage sufficiently with the readings and material to do well on assignments, and so the serious student will still benefit tremendously without being subjected to much pressure. I would also encourage you to take this class with a friend with whom you are comfortable informally discussing open-ended religious questions outside of class - I benefited tremendously from grappling with difficult religious questions through these informal discussions.
Very easy class. Readings are interesting and do a good job of explaining and connecting different East Asian religions. Two papers and a small quiz at the beginning. Excellent way to do your CB or Societies of the World requirement.
Expect an interesting, easy, and enjoyable gen ed class.  The lectures can be a bit log, but they are often filled with Professor Robson's good humor and music, and are generally interesting.  The readings are important for section, but one may simply review them before section and in preparation for the test/papers.  Strongly recommended if at all interest in Buddhism, Daoism, and Confucianism.
This was an absolutely AMAZING class! I loved the breadth and depth of religions we covered. I really enjoyed lectures because Professor Robson is an amazing, engaging and interesting lecturer. I was never confused or wondering why we were covering a particular section. I learnt so much in such a short period of time. The readings were all fascinating! One of my favorite classes at Harvard for sure!!
The class is very easy and simple. There aren't a lot of readings or assignments. Robson is a great lecturer and a very likeable guy. For me, my section made the class unbearable.
Very well run and great professor and TFs.
Not a difficult class at all regarding the workload and actual content of the course.  Unfortunately the grading by the TFs seems to be inconsistent from one another so make sure you try and get a fair TF or just go to office hours to discuss papers before you do them.
This course did a great job introducing me to a variety of East Asian religions, and did so in a way that tackled historical, theological, and philosophical manner. The lectures were always interesting and captivating, and Professor Robson is a fantastic speaker. The format, a midterm and two papers, was also very nice. While it is very easy to get behind on readings, I strongly recommend keeping up to speed with the class as it makes the lectures much more understandable.
If the format stays the same, study hard for the midterm or quiz. But you do not need to go to lecture and the take-home/final essay were very simple to do even without having attended lectures
CB33 was a great course and an easy way to fulfill your CB requirement! Lectures were interesting and educational, though not necessary to do well in the course. Essentially you can learn most f the material through skimming the readings and attending sections. Grading is easy with only a single midterm and two papers, so the workload isn't huge by any means. It'd be a great to take as possibly a 5th class given the minimum work.
This course is a great way to fulfill a gen ed requirement; it is low intensity, but the material is very interesting.  There is no final, just a quiz and two papers.  Robson is a really entertaining lecturer (although to be honest attending lecture is not really even necessary, however it is enjoyable so you should do it).  Sections were much headier than lecture, but again they seemed to be purely for your own edification.  The papers were a breeze.
This is a great survey course of East Asian Religions and a very reasonable way to fulfill culture and belief. Professor Robson is a great lecturer (although the lecture can be a bit long). Readings can be interesting, although there is quite a bit. With that said, lecture is probably the best place to learn the information anyway. Assignments are very fair and the teaching staff is incredible supportive and helpful.
This is a great class, but you learn 99% of it in section; so, go to section. As far as lectures go, you'll learn this for yourself, but besides the first couple of weeks, there is no need (or incentive) to attend lecture. The section component of this course, alone, makes the course worthwhile enough to take for a GedEd.
James Robson is a great teacher/lecturer, the TFs are all really smart and helpful, and the class can be really interesting. Expect to learn about things you never thought you would come into contact with.
This class is truly life-changing! It makes me regret not concentrating in East Asian Studies! If you want to get an objective and comprehensive overview of East Asian culture/religions, then this is the class to go! The professor presents all material in a comprehensive but easy-to-understand way!
The class is interesting and the material isn't that difficult. You will get out what you put in.
Easy class but terrible resources--the readings online aren't very organized and there are no posted lecture notes/videos SO GO TO CLASS.
Relatively painless way to finish your CB or Societies of the World gened!  One quiz, one midpoint paper, and a final paper.  Plus, the material is pretty interesting.
This class is not very difficult.  To be really interested the course, however, one really needs to find Buddhism and other east Asian religions interesting, which I did not.
If you took ER18, this might seem like a natural extension. That idea is both right and wrong. You do extend some parts, but you get a much more fantastic view of East Asian traditions with this class, which is why I highly recommend it.
This was an excellent, fascinating class with easy requirements for a gen ed. You learn a lot when compared with how much time you have to invest. Professor Robson is brilliant and hysterically funny. Would definitely recommend!
This is a fun class to take if one is interested in East Asia.
This class is a lot of fun. You learn so much about East Asian religions from a vibrant, enthusiastic professor and his really dedicated teaching staff.
It's a good class with relatively little work.  Robson is an engaging lecturer, the material is interesting and stands up to deep consideration, the curriculum is well designed, and many topics have parallels to other topics.  Readings are manageable (some are most interesting or easier to understand than others) and there are relatively few assignments.  Take if you have any interest in the material.
This course is a great choice for a gen ed. There is only two papers and one quiz. The readings are easy and ever ally discussed in section and lecture. The professor is also really entertaining in lecture. Overall great course!
It is possible to get through the course doing minimal reading. However, the more effort you put into the class, the more you get out of it.
Robson is a good dude that lectures well!
This class is really fascinating and a pretty light workload.
Great class, but you definitely get out of it what you put in.  It's possible to skate by, avoiding almost all of the readings and lectures, but the class is a lot less fun when that happens.  There's a lot of interesting stuff going on, particularly about contemporary issues, but it can be easy and tempting to skip over when the graded parts of the course are few and far between.
you should really attend lectures, even though it is framed as an easy course. the sections vary quite a bit, but as a whole the course was pretty interesting
This class is mostly interesting and easy to keep up with as long as you go to lecture. Neither of the papers (and there are only two -- midterm and final) are too difficult, and the grading was very reasonable.
Robson is a terrifically engaging teacher, and the workload is wholly manageable. East Asian religions are absolutely fascinating, and Robson's varied approach (looking at East Asian religions historically and culturally as well as philosophically from their texts themselves) is effective, though you will probably end up finding one side of this more interesting. Billy Brewster was a top notch section leader, if he's still part of the class, make sure to get in his section (though I'm sure the other section leaders are great as well).
Professor Robson is awesome, and the course material is excellent. This is a pretty easy gen ed with huge learning opportunity. I thoroughly enjoyed the term, which was mostly stress-free with lots of learning about a subject about which I knew nothing going into the course. Go to Professor Robson's office hours, he's so fun to talk to; he really listens to your ideas. He's not an enlightened feminist (which is my only complaint, really:]; I think he just doesn't have the education on gender theory etc.) but he seems very willing to listen and learn as well as teach.
This is a great class.  Professor Robson is awesome and you learn a lot, without it being too stressful.  Highly recommend.
The course is a great survey of Buddhism, Daoism, Confucianism, and Shinto...I really think that the balance of breadth and depth was just right...lectures end up being pretty optional (though often interesting). You get out what you put in - this being said, the class can be real easy.
There isn't that much work involved, except I just wasn't interesting in the material so the class wasn't my favorite
Great GenEd and introductory course! Prof. Robson is amazing, make sure to interact with him outside of class.
Take this class even if you have a just a small interest in east asia or religion. Robson is fantastic, his lectures and engaging and he's always brimming with enthusiasm and knowledge. You will get much more out of the class if you do the readings, but even just attending lecture on its own is often extremely worthwhile. I can came into this class looking to fulfill the C & B gen-ed but now I am going to get a secondary in EAS because of the course.
You should take this.
I am the type of person who has avoided papers throughout her undergraduate career. I am a graduating senior, and CB 33 is the fifth class I've ever taken that requires papers. That being said, CB 33 was a delightful way to fulfill my CB requirement. I definitely learned a lot about Buddhism, and also a little bit about Confucianism, Daoism, Hinduism, and Shinto. My TF, Devin, led very informative sections--I felt like they actually taught me the material (whereas in some other classes, sections involve talking about nothing for an hour and trying to hide it). The in-class exam was painless, as were the papers.
CB33 is a great genes class. Robson is a great lecturer and the material is interesting. There isn't much work for the course either. The material can be confusing and taught in a winding roundabout way though, so try not to miss lectures. Also sections can be tedious.
Professor Robson is an excellent lecturer, and he really cares about his students. Make time to see him out of class! His life is so interesting. The subject material for this class is interesting, and gives you a lot of new information. Readings aren't super necessary until papers. Spend time on the papers - they are the majority of your grade. Section could be a bit more structured, but overall, an awesome class to take for your gen ed.
This course was not very work-intensive, and the lectures, sections, and readings were all a lot of fun.
Fairly easy, although the essays require a bit of work. Also very interesting.
This class provides a good introduction to Asian religions and the way to approach the study of religion and other cultures. It could be a little bit boring at times and did not always feel super engaging, but overall, it was a fairly good class and I definitely took something away from it.
The first in-class midterm is the only time you really have to study for this class. After that you only have to write papers, so there is no need to do most of the readings.
very interesting material and Professor Robson is a great lecturer. However, the course is a bit disjointed (too much material) and unorganized and section is hit or miss. There is some overlap with ER18 but enough new material to keep things interesting.
it is very interesting and the workload is not too difficult
This is a great course if you're at all interested in East Asian cultural and religious systems.  Despite the course title, you won't get a great picture of the key theoretical foundations or methodologies of religious studies, but the course is still interesting, engaging, and not terribly challenging.
A great, informative, and easy-going gen ed that fulfills either CB or SW.  Professor Robson is one of the most engaging lecturers and makes every class fun!
James Robson is a phenomenal & inspiring lecturer. Take the class and you'll understand what I mean when I say he may well be a bodhisattva himself. Adam Lyons is an incredible TF who is very knowledgeable about the material and sprinkles in great personal anecdotes and supplementary materials to animate section. Highly recommended class overall.
This class is very interesting, not too much work, and the TF's and professor alike are awesome.
Great course and professor. If you are someone who will do all of the readings, it does take a fair amount of time (~5 hours a week). Interesting material.
This class was so worth it. It was enjoyable to learn the different topics, and the course is so thoughtfully taught.
There are a lot of readings, but they are not necessary. That said, the exams were very straightforward and pretty easy, however were graded kind of harshly. However, that could be a product of my tf, Xingyi, or the class in general. Also, the only book you probably need to purchase is NAWR, and even that might not be necessary.
Professor Robson is a great engaging lecturer. I never even bought the required texts for this class, so the readings definitely aren't important although many of them are online. Very interesting and not very difficult for a gen-ed!
Very easy class, depending on your TF it can be more or less straightforward. Robson is an interesting lecturer, but whatever you miss during lecture you can find it on the internet basically. Be warned however that the internet has way more and more specific information than you will need for the class, so it might confuse you even more.
This is a great class for everyone, even if you're not interested in exploring other religions - it's a great class for also learning about East Asian cultures and their presence in our Western lives.
this class is super interesting and has pushed me to consider EAS as a secondary/concentration. no one really does the reading because robson assigns way too many readings for a class that's supposed to be a manageable gen ed. you should be able to get away with not reading too much and instead paying attention in lecture
Great class to fulfill SW gen ed. Lectures are really interesting, and cover nice breath and depth of religions in India, China and Japan. Professor Robson has a lot of firsthand experience with the traditions and religions you learn about in class.The two in class quizzes/midterms are really fair and painless. However, the take home 7-10 page paper is painful. Definitely do the readings for the the last (Japan) unit, it will save you time and stress come the final paper.
The workload is very manageable and Professor Robson is a great lecturer (although the hour and a half can sometimes feel long). The material gives a more in-depth, less simplistic view of East Asian traditions than is usually taught
E
Take this class if you want to think deeply about religion
This course is straightforward but also enlightening. Professor Robson's lectures are super interesting, and you will learn much about the complexities of East Asian religions by the end of the class.
Robson is a great lecturer but the lectures are long and it can be a little hard to stay focused. Section is also a drag, but if you have a good section leader I think the class would be much better. I did learn a lot.
If you don't mind going to lecture, take this course. The lectures are easy to listen to and Professor Robson is an excellent orator. You won't fall asleep. I dislike how the essay is 40% of your grade, so just be warned about that.
You can get as much out of this class as you want. If you pay attention in lecture you'll learn a great deal, if not, you won't
This course is a gem. The examinations are easy and the lectures, readings, and sections are extremely thought-provoking. If you would like an introduction to east asian religions/philosophies, this is the perfect course.
This is a great class! Robson is a great lecturer and the amount of material you cover in the semester is amazing. This class is also really easy; you can get away with doing basically no readings, although I wouldn't necessarily recommend that (the readings are interesting!).
Very easy way to fulfill your Gen Ed. Honestly you don't need to spend more than 2 hours a week on this course if that to get by. However it's only interesting if you make it--you need to spend more time if you wish to get more out of this course.
fascinating and fairly comprehensive study of eastern religions and their effect on modern life in the east and west.
While this course can be fascinating to those who do not know much about East Asian Religions, the lectures are often dull and confusing, and the sections are absolutely useless.
Easy midterms, section hit or miss. Paper graded harshly. You have to buy the professor's book which is annoying. But if you do the readings they're actually pretty interesting.
Interesting course, but TF changes the experience significantly
Very little work throughout the semester, only two midterms, which are fair but require honest studying. Spreading out the readings is a good idea, as they will become overwhelming if left just before the midterms. Free up time for and start thinking about the final paper as soon as possible, as paper topics are released very late in the semester.
Be ready to embrace east asian religions and keep an open mind!
I selected this course as a low-workload 4th class because I had to take 3 p-set classes. While the workload is certainly low, this class is definitely not the "hidden gem" some have claimed it to be in previous Q evals. I think the experience also depends on who your TF is, as my TF seemed to have very subjective and arbitrary grading schemes. The work consists of 2 midterms (vocabulary matching, explaining concepts, and a long essay response) and a final paper.
If you take this class seriously and do the readings plus listen in lecture, you will get a lot out of it- lots of very interesting material. Most people don't do this because it takes a significant amount of time to get through all the readings.
Lectures are really fun and interesting. The material is great, and doesn't require a ton of hard work to really engage with it.
If you are remotely interested in this topic, take this class.  The topics are really interesting and the assignments aren't too hard at all.
Robson is a great lecturer, the readings are a lot but interesting and relatively easy to get through, and the material is sort of inherently interesting. It's definitely an easy GenEd but it's also actually cool and I feel like I learned things in it.
This course is very interesting, especially if you don't have any previous knowledge on the topic. It's not an especially tough course, but the grading of the tests/essays are very subjective and completely depends on your TF.
Definitely take this course if you have even a little bit of interest in the material; it's a great course if you have time to delve into the material and if you don't.
take it, its interesting
Low time commitment - no need to study for midterms too much: the terms + passages Robson picks are fairly straightforward. Final paper will be a struggle bus, but not too bad. Note that attendance at lecture is fairly mandatory (you have to submit a note card at the end, and Robson's slides contain <10% of the things he actually talks about).
This class is a gem, pretty interesting to learn about different cultures if you have no prior information.
Professor Robson is a great lecturer. He really makes you think about how this subject applies to your everyday life and how those everyday thoughts are filled with misrepresentations and false assumptions about the history of these religions. This class really shakes up the western notion of a religion and is a delight! Reading is manageable, exams are fair, and final paper was doable.
This class is not worth your time. Do not take it for the easy Gen Ed fulfillment. The lectures are dry, no one pays attention, you don't need to do any assignments so you don't engage with anything, everyone just crams for the midterms, and the final paper is way harder than anything you did in the course. You can easily walk out of this class with a good grade and not even know what religions you studied.
This is a wonderful course! It has a light work load and grading is lenient. It's one of those rare courses that combines light workload with transmission of substantial material -- I've definitely learned far more in this course than others I've taken.
Very interesting, fun, Robson is a great teacher and is very enthusiastic about the material. Highly recommend, and is a light workload with only 2 exams and 1 term paper!
This is a super easy gen ed and a great way to get your culture and belief out of the way. Robson is very passionate about the material and quite knowledgable. He is a good lecturer, but he often goes off on tangents which is pretty frustrating. There's no reason for the class to be 1.5 hours instead of 1 hour. Also lecture is kind of mandatory because you have to turn in index cards with questions you have every class. Section was objectively pointless and pretty painful. It was clear no one did readings or was really paying attention. Midterms were super easy and the final essay isn't bad either.
This class is the perfect way to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement if you are looking for a low work load but still want to learn something cool and new. Robson is a pretty entertaining and relaxed professor, and his lectures are very easy to listen to and understand. He has a LOT of experience in the field, which is cool. The exams and paper are very simple as well, making this class a low time commitment. The actual material was completely new for me which helped make it interesting.
This is a good class to balance a schedule with a heavy course load. I learned a lot from the class but didn't have to spend a large amount of time on this class.
It is a very solid class
This class is a classic "gem." Professor Robson is a beauty, plus the material and readings are actually extremely interesting. Would recommend to everyone.
Easy Gen Ed, overall great course to take if you are interested in Asian religions (Buddhism, Shinto, etc.)
Prof. Robson's lectures are great. The material is so cool! Start the essay early
Robson is an amazing lecturer.  He is definitely worth taking the class for.
Great course. Not too much work at all. just 2 tests and a paper. The paper is a little tricky, but if you pay attention, then you'll do well.
It's a very interesting class that doesn't require that much time commitment, yet you learn a lot about east Asian religions -- I can definitely appreciate others' religions, political conflicts that come with these religions, and just a better understanding of their contexts in general.
The course is interesting. Do the readings, because they will give you a better understanding of religion and are stimulating.
Good survey of East Asian religions, but more of a history course than an exploration of the religions themselves.
Honestly, this class is so easy. None of the Society and the World/US and the World gen eds interested me, and I was so excited when I saw this one fit Societies and the World although it is for Culture and Belief. Seriously I never read for this course and half-listened to lectures and I still got 90s on the two in-class exams (which were great, btw) and found myself talking about the topics of this class often with my friends, and definitely thinking about it a lot! With as minimal effort as I put, the final essay was kind of annoying, but it was definitely fair. Honestly easiest gen ed ever and still super interesting and mind-blowing.
Low stress and super interesting. Professor Robson was clearly very enthusiastic about the material and it was reflected in his teaching. Take especially if you've never been exposed to east asian religion.
This is an extremely easy class. There are no assignments except 2 midterms and a final essay. The midterms don't require more than 3 hours of studying MAX. You should definitely go to lecture because they are interesting (something that I regret not doing). And finally, the final paper is a little more difficult, but doable. Just talk with your TF throughout, and he/she will guide you through it!
Learn interesting things in a non-stressful manner.
Lectures are super long and you don't always get much out of them
Robson as a professor and person is amazing. He is an example of Harvard's great faculty, a person who is both talented at his craft but also engaging and accessible as a professor. Minimal coursework is easy, but to truly get the most of the class, it would pay to do the work, which is just readings; they are genuinely interesting. Midterms are ridiculously easy and final paper is a nice complement for the entire class as a whole.
You might not do the readings, but know that they really are sweet and super interesting. So long as you have a sense of wonder and feel like the readings are cool it'll be easier to do them. There's actually a *lot*, but I'm sure this class will get super easy Q reviews because you didn't actually need to do them. I'll try to finish the ones I didn't do over the summer.
Go to as many lectures as you can -- very interesting material and will help with the final paper.
It is certainly not a high-work gen ed, and the absence of homework during the semester is convenient, but mandatory class and section are something of a nuisance. The final paper is 7-10 pages, certainly manageable, and both midterms are quite doable.
Like any survey course, the material in CB33 is highly variable - some weeks and readings are fascinating while others are much less so. Robson is a good lecturer, although the 1.5 hour lectures can definitely become tedious.
Gem
You learn about stuff you probably don't know about.
Material was bizarre and not presented clearly and succinctly. Could have learned the same material by reading a book or watching a documentary and would have liked the material more. Grades depend a lot on who your TF is. Worst part is the students are uninspired and don't even want to do the reading, meaning that no one really wants to engage with the material. Don't recommend unless you have an easy TF; otherwise take an easier and more interesting gen ed.
This is a natural follow-up to ER18; I would recommend it if you were interested in the material of that course. This course discusses the religious traditions that followed from the philosophical works you read (or didn't read) about in that course. There is also sufficient overlap in the material that this course will be much easier if you took ER18.
This is a wonderful way to fulfill a gen-ed requirement. Professor Robson is amazing and really cares about the students. If you actually take the time to do the reading, you will really get a lot out of this.
It's a fun, easy class to learn A LOT about East Asian religions.  It's the perfect combo: lots of learning with not a lot of stress.
This class really is about taking some meaningful knowledge and a different perspective away at the end of the semester, so I would approach it with that mindset and try to really enjoy the assignments instead of B.Sing them. Professor Robson really does want you to expand your perspective of the subject.
the material has to be something that students want to spend time learning and exploring
This type of class really should be mandatory for Harvard students if for no other reason that it gets you to look outside your world and understand the other cultures around us; that and Harvard students could really use for eastern philosophy in terms of stress management.
It's a very, very easy A.  The TAs and professor are very lenient.  Definitely take if you need to fulfill the gened requirement.
Interesting readings, wonderful professor.
This is an interesting course, but it's pretty confusing. As a religion course, there are a lot of questions but very few answers. That said, Professor Robson is amazing. I would suggest the professor more than the class itself.
This class only teaches you as much as you want to get out of it. If you pay attention in lecture, take good notes, and do the readings, then you will learn a lot about a subject you probably have never dove into so deeply before. Its workload is light even for a Gen Ed/Core class, and it is a pleasure to listen to the lectures.
This class was philosophically and sociologically fascinating. I would recommend it to anyone seeking to improve the objectivity with which he or she looks at the world.
This class is amazing! Just be careful who your tf is.
You learn a lot of interesting information about Asian religions and cultures through interesting and effective lectures, readings, and assignments.
interesting class, awesome prof and tf, not too hard, fun!
Very interesting material
good class with cool material and reasonable workload... recommended especially for intense science-concentrator who are looking for excellent gen-ed
An easy way to fulfill a core; no final!
It's a pretty low-key gen ed class that's also really fun and the religions we study are good for putting your college years in perspective.
I wanted to take a class with material that I would not learn elsewhere. This was definitely the right choice.  Professor Robson is engaging and presents interesting material in a great way.  It gives students a wonderful introduction to East Asian Religions.  I'm walking away from it knowing a bit about the main religions as well as areas about which I want to learn more.
This class had great lectures and readings, and I would recommend it as a way to the Asian philosophy that you always meant to read but never got around to.  It covers a lot of material and is therefore a perfect introduction that also emphasizes the interrelation between different traditions.
A great core, very small workload, and only a few papers to write.  Just get a decent TF, and the course is terrific.
too boring. most of the culture and belief classes looked bad, but this one was bad.
The workload is fine and the professor rocks
Great professor, great class, great literature.  I highly recommend this.
If you suspect you will find the material even remotely interesting, this will be an enjoyable and almost entirely painless Core.
This course is a wonderful introduction to East Asian religions.  I learned a lot and the assignments are enough to keep me occupied, but not overwhelming.  The TF and the professor are wonderful!
