It's a fun class with good use of modern multimedia to keep things interesting, but it helps a lot to have some background in Greek mythology if you're interested in taking it.
To keep up with the reading.
Gregy Nagy is an excellent and inspiring professor.
The class is a lot of reading but you can get away without going to lecture as long as you're resourceful.
The reading list is great, but you'll never read it all, even if you prioritize this class, which is very frustrating when you put so many hours into it. On the bright side, it's clear you can also barely open your coursepacks and still do quite well, so the workload is mostly up to you. Also worth noting: sections are especially hit-or-miss, and the professor intermixes his legitimate theories with theories that he backs up by referencing SNL or Ridley Scott clips from millennia later. The course is sold as an education in ancient Greek literature, but in large part it's an exercise in interpreting TV shows and movies like "Scream 2" through the lens of ancient Greek sacrificial ritual. Or something.
This course made me happy that I'm studying at Harvard. Professor Nagy is an unbelievable professor and the material covered is incredibly rich. This course made me excited about the material, about being a student and about life in general. I would take this course again and again if I could.
The problem with this course is that it has three disaparate unrelated strands. You have section which focus on the concepts, you have the homework which focus on the reading, and lectures which serve as a essentially a text-dump for Professor Nagy. None of these components reference the other, and they obviously don't reinforce one another.
You will gain an appreciation for the hero.
This is fascinating class by taught by one of the world's foremost Classicists. If you have any interest in Classics, it is definitely worth taking. Those who are already interested in the subject matter are likely going to be able to get past the at-times boring lectures, which can verge on being too much of a discussion, not enough of a presentation and ridden with odd videos.
It is a great class and the work is very interesting
Enthusiastic professor, readings that make me feel like a more education person, and painless requirements
Although the class is fairly laid back, make sure you take the essays and other assignments seriously.
Professor Nagy's course on Greek Heroes was one of my favorite this entire semester; not only was it an informative and engaging class, but it also sparked my interest in Greek myth, literature, and history.  I hope to take more classes in related subjects in the future!
Great course. Not to stressful, but very interesting.
Interesting and painless way to do a core/gen ed class.
It's a good introduction to the Classics department, but you will only benefit from the class if you're really interested in the material.
Concentrate not so much on reading the texts (there are summaries and study guides all over the place) but focus on learning what you can about greek culture and the key words such as "kleos" etc.
Don't take this class if you are looking to meet new people, they wont show up until the final.
Unless you have a strong interest in Greek literature, avoid it. Pretty anti-intellectual attitude.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading on your own and try to make it through the lectures.
A good core class that wasn't too difficult and very interesting
If you are interested in the Greeks than take this class. Pretty easy workload
This is a very good class to take for a Gen Ed requirement. It is interesting and doesn't require any prior knowledge of the material. It is also a small workload.
You don't need to read all the materials that are assigned to get a good grade.  You just need to know the Iliad and the Odyssey well.
This is a great survey of Ancient Greece.  There is alot of reading, but you get out of it exactly what you put in.
the class is kind of bland with some interesting pieces here and there but theyre few and far between
Not as easy or interesting as people have said it is.
It's a great way to fulfill a core that, through reading various Greek myths, leaves you with a good general understanding of Greek hero and god worship.  Some people say that lectures are boring, but if you try to stay engaged and do the reading, then this is not the case.  Professor Nagy is unique.
This is a really fun and rewarding class. It requires a lot of reading, but the materials are worth the effort. The class is designed to enjoy learning (and experiencing) the Greek Hero. It's a great way to fulfill your Culture and Belief requirement as well as read classic Greek literature.
This is a really weak, confusing class, the source of lots of my Fall semester frustration. The lectures and sections all but ignore the texts you're assigned to read. For lecture, you get circuitous discussions of obscure linguistic points about "concepts of heroism." I came into this excited to learn about the material - discuss the texts from the perspectives of (say) plot, characters, theme, history, authorship, any of that - what I got, instead, was long analysis of words that seemed basically beside the point, confusing, above my head, beneath my time. I cannot recommend this class, sorry to say.
It is a very relaxed class atmosphere that is both interesting and fun. I was able to learn a lot about Greek history and think critically about the problems and circumstances of that time.
If you've ever been curious about Greek mythology, this is the class to take.
It's not too hard and a great intro to greek mythology.
Easy yet interesting class.  Take advantage of the readings.
Your grade depends on your TF.  The reading is amazing.
The reading material is fantastic, but if you aren't going to do the reading, the course will be boring and painful.
It was an interesting class learning about heroes you might have heard of wondered about.
Be sure to meet/talk with your TF to discuss your essays before you write them.  They expect a certain writing style that I was not used to prior to the first essay, but once I found out what they wanted all was good.  Also the readings are fun.
Great way to cover some important foundational texts of western society, with an remarkably enthusiastic professor.
It gives you the chance to read some great works of the Greek canon, but the lectures are pretty useless and at some points you will feel like the course is just silly.
Lectures aren't too important to attend.
There is more reading than you would expect. You can get by without doing the reading as the class has good online materials (lecture videos, notes), but it will be hard to participate much if you're not willing to do reading a few nights a week. It is not particularly well organized, and I could see it becoming a burden if you did not like the material.
This course is very easy.  The readings are fun and interesting and you have probably already read them.  You only have 3 easy papers and a short online response each week.  It is easy, fun, and you will probably put in more work than necessary just because it is interesting.
Although the class is not very challenging, it is very interesting.
if you meet with your TF and discuss the papers before hand you will be in great shape to get good grades
Meet with your section leader to discuss your essay ideas.
The lectures are a bit wandering and Professor Nagy sometimes make connections that are hard to follow. Still, read the texts and get as much out of them as you can. Everyone should read these texts sometime is their life.
Interesting, fun, and painless
Enjoy the lectures and the sections because the ideas are very original
A great chance to read the classic Greek Epics.
Easy, interesting, and fun
Lecture is not completely necessary to go to, although it will help you somewhat when writing the papers. Overall not too demanding a course.
You'll enjoy the lectures and section. The class draws a lot of different concentrations into it so there are a wide variety of perspectives on the readings.
The course-load is manageable and the material is engaging if you have interest in Greek Mythology
It's easy and interesting.
This is a phenomenal course that offers an excellent introduction to the Classics with a unique spin.  The workload is very manageable and really engages what you'll learn in the course.  Saskia is the best, definitely try to get in her section if possible!
If you want to study the best of classical works learning from one of the most experienced and engaging professors then you will enjoy this course. And because there are only papers, you are able to explore some of your interests in writing and very close reading.
Much of the coursework is essay writing, so one who chooses to take this course should be prepared to work with available resources to craft the best work possible.
Easy class which can be pretty interesting if you engage with the material.
If you are looking for an interesting gen ed that won't overwhelm you with busywork, this is the course for you. There was a larger than expected amount of reading required, but you can skip over the unimportant parts (e.g. the long battle scenes of the Iliad where countless irrelevant names are referenced), you'll have all the tools you need to do well on the essays. Section and lecture were only loosely connected. Section was more relevant to the paper assignments and lecture essentially consisted of listening to Professor Nagy throw out countless brilliant theories based on his extensive knowledge of Greek language and culture. Definitely take this class!
not a course for you if you have no interest in the subject matter; it gets boring really quickly reading the epics and tragedies. assignments are not difficult though, just 3 essays no exams.
The lectures are fracking good but not necessary for success in the course.
Use your TFs! They're super helpful and can give you great directions for a better paper.
great class great material take it you wlll learn a lot
Recommended for students who are interested in mythology and history.
Only 3 papers, but grading is VERY harsh, especially on the first paper
The readings are very manageable.  Professor Nagy is amazing.  I recommend taking at least one course from him!
The course is great if you've never taken a cult heros course or if you have read the Iliad and the Odyssey but want a fresh look. The lectures can be hard to follow at first but this is made up for by the amazing set of material provided to the students on the course website. The section portion of this course add nothing.
This course is not very difficult if you do the readings every week.
This is a fantastic beginner course in the classics.  It allows you to meet the otherwise daunting Iliad and the Odyssey with a profound understanding and comprehension that would otherwise be unattainable.
For those who love Greek mythology and literature, definitely take this class.  You will learn more about these stories than you think you know.
This is a very low time commitment class if you need a culture and belief (considering the limited options for culture and belief). I never read the classics that I read in this class, and I'm glad to have read the Iliad, the Odyssey, and the Greek tragedies. However, I felt like the lecture were disjointed at times and focused on Greek grammar more so than overall themes that should've helped us with our papers.
Professor Nagy is a really warm-hearted guy who will respond to any emails that you send, and if you're really passionate about the material, put you in contact with all sorts of scholars. He's knowledgeable about everything there is to know about Greek heroes, and is a great resource that I wish I utilized more. You really get out of this course what you put into it, which sounds cliche, but the readings are so relevant to the course that not spending your time on close reading really limits the understanding you can get from the text. There's so much potential for creating new interpretations that you shouldn't feel the need to default to Sparknotes for the Greek tragedies and epics that make up the bulk of the reading for this course.
Great class, it's a gem.
This class is incredibly easy and requires no commitment. That being said, when I actually put in some time and learned a little for papers, I found it very interesting.  Worth it to put a little time in.
This class was great!  The lectures and section were all very interesting.
Chill class, just have to write three papers. Don't worry about lecture but section is a must. Become friends with your TF, he/she will help you with the major assignments. Be creative and just explore some seemingly bogus ideas, because they might turn out to have some merit
Do the work - makes writing the papers much easier.
It is a fun an painless class- However, you will gain a lot if you have a good TF. Make sure you get Guy! He is really a thorough TF!
It's a great class - if you've had background with the Iliad, the Odyssey, Plato's Apology, etc, you'll be fine. It's easy with not much workload, and if you get a great TF, you will have a positive experience.
Minimal work necessary.  If you like Greek Mythology and want a low key class, this will do.
Awesome class, Professor Nagy is a great lecturer.
Nagy is one of the preeminent scholars on the Cult Hero...take this class. You and your GPA will thank you.
You have the chance to read incredible texts with Professor Nagy!
Great class. Very interesting stuff. Not incredibly difficult, at all. But also interesting enough for students trying to get the most out of it. It's a gem
You have to do the readings to be able to participate in section.  Take the essays seriously, because this isn't an easy-A class.  Meet with Prof. Nagy - he's very eager to meet his students and gives great advice
If you have any interest in Greek mythology, this class has a great professor who is extremely knowledgeable and passionate about the subject.
This course is very easy as long as you keep up with the readings a bit. Even if you fall behind, TFs are very helpful and section meetings can get you caught up easily. This is a good way to fill a Gen Ed, but I do think it helps if you have some real interest in the material.
The texts are great, but be ready not to be able to really enjoy them in section.
Despite being well known as a fluffy gen ed schedule filler, the sheer lack of comprehensive instruction and structure in the course makes it a thoroughly disappointing experience. One of the greatest scholars on the material, one of the most important sections of literature to study, and you're left feeling completely unsatisfied, unaffected, and unchanged. The class illuminated nothing, and the level of instruction did not match up to the grading.
My least favorite course I've taken at Harvard
Easy class. One of the better gen ed classes for culture and belief.
This class is relatively painless. As long as you read what you have to the essays should be easy
This is a great GenEd on works that I've always meant to read anyways, and a thorough way of getting a deeper understanding of those texts. The teaching staff are friendly and extremely well versed in Greek literature as a whole, making this a very enriching experience as well as a low work level one.
The class has enormous potential, but the lectures and essays fell somewhat flat. If the class focused more on the culture of the Greeks I think it would be greatly improved.
Worry more about close reading than just getting the reading done.
Take it.
It's very rewarding if you ctually take the time to read the material, search for patterns, and do your own research/investigation. Discuss your ideas with your teaching fellow.
This is a very interesting class that gives you a good opportunity to read a lot of important classics and think critically about them. Furthermore, Professor Nagy is EXTREMELY enthusiastic and dedicated and so even when the material might be a little dull, his teaching style makes it at the least decently enjoyable. It's also not particularly intensive so if you're looking to get a good grade or read these works in a less strenuous academic setting or fulfill the CB requirement amidst an otherwise demanding course load, I thoroughly recommend this class.
take this course if you want an easy gen-ed that doesn't require a lot of work at all. There was a short paragraph due each week and only 3 essays with no midterms or final exam. TAKE THIS CLASS
Ok, so this is not a "hard" course. Few papers, weekly section post, no midterm or final. Yes, it's "easy" and not having a final is huge...but this course is not at all a gem. Had the reputation in years past of being the "gem of gems"...not anymore. Grading has tightened up. Still a million athletes, and they've skewed the course more towards Homer, which is a plus.
Gregory Nagy is a great lecture and has a very interesting viewpoint, but be prepared to write papers with very little guidance and not much of a link to material covered.
Lectures and section may be puzzling and dry, but the material covered in the course is very interesting.
Pretty easy way to fulfill this gen-ed. The lectures are a big dry, but if you have a good section leader (like Guy), your sections might be pretty interesting.
The readings are interesting if you do them.  Professor Nagy is always excited about what he's teaching, so even though you can get by without going to lectures, it's worthwhile to go because he is so enthusiastic.
Take this course.  Professor Nagy is engaging, interesting, and an expert on this material.  You will learn a great deal.  You will read classics and get to hear Professor Nagy analyze them in exciting ways.
Do all of your readings.
Absolutely take this class if you're looking for an easy culture and belief. You don't need to go to lecture ever and there are only 3 papers all semester. Never done so little work for any class.
Keep up with the reading and make sure to watch the proseminars because they are extremely helpful for writing your papers.
This is a fun class that isn't too difficult and gives you a good opportunity to study some classic Greek texts.  Professor Nagy is a brilliant guy and is really enthusiastic about teaching the course, which makes things fun.
A fun and interesting class. Worthwhile.
The course readings are incredibly interesting. Professor Nagy is an incredibly endearing lecturer but be careful if James is your TF: he is great but is definitely the hardest grader of the group.
awesome class
If you haven't read the classics, this class can be a fun and easy way to fulfill the culture and belief gen ed. Lecture is often slow and attendance at times seems unnecessary. However, Professor Nagy is brilliant and very nice and the class covers many interesting aspects of Greek Heroes. Also there is no final!
Be ready to do in-depth reading of greek literature.
It is a fun course, and if you have even the slightest of interest in the material, this is one of those classes where all the instructors will explore, have fun, and love the material right alongside you, and you'll learn to appreciate what you read even more.
I anticipated more discussion about the texts in lecture and sometimes found lecture difficult to follow but this class was pretty interesting, the readings are fun, and it's a great addition to an otherwise heavy workload.
You actually do need to do the reading to do the assignments well
One of the myths we learned from this class was that at the precise moment of Achilles' conception, her mother, the sea nymph Thetis was a sepia, i.e. the ultimate form in the universe (she could morph into anything). This whole course felt like Achilles' moment of conception; the lecture materials were presented haphazardly and we jumped from one topic to another with no smooth transition. To be fair, the readings are actually very interesting, and sometimes it was interesting to see some connections that the Prof. Nagy made, but most of the times I was lost. The workload wasn't bad though.
The class is pretty easy. Don't really have to do much of the reading if you're not into it, BUT the papers are NOT easy. Grading totally depends on the TF. Definitely meet with your TF to get help on how to write the papers.
Prof. Nagy is absolutely brilliant and if you enjoy ancient Greek epics and tragedies you'll love this class.
This class is relatively painless-- try to keep up with the reading because there's a lot and it's interesting, so if you start missing some, you probably will end up missing out.
The class focuses on unbelievable texts that are illuminated in a great light by Professor Nagy and all of the teachers.
This course is interesting, however being interested in the topic being discussed is essential
It is a good class if you are very interested in reading the classics or Greek Heroes. It is easy to do well, and lectures are not something you need to really attend. With that being said, unless you really need to take this class or really want to, DON't. It really isn't worth wasting 1/36th of your Harvard experience for this class. If you are just looking for something easy- and beware the word is out on athletic teams that this is easy- then find something that is interesting and easy.
This class is a gen.  I wasn't really into Greek mythology when I first started, but am now obsessed.  Nagy is an invigorating lecturer, and Saskia is the best TF I have ever had at Harvard.  DEFINITELY TAKE THIS CLASS.
Great class! Nagy is amazing and loves his students and the material. I didn't know anything about Greek tragedies or epic poetry prior to taking the class, and now I love them.
Lecture is unimportant, go to section and you'll do fine
the texts are a gem and will serve as a very valuable foundation for my future literary studies
I would tell students that the course material is much more specific than I had expected.  The papers, as my TF graded them, required course knowledge and background knowledge on Greek history that was VERY unfair.  If you have James as a TF, RUN AWAY from this class AS FAST AS YOU CAN.
It's a good class.  Very interesting material.
Workload is very light, lecture attendance is not necessary, and you just have to do a tiny bit of reading to be able to participate in section. This is probably the easiest class I've ever taken in my 4 years at Harvard. And it's still interesting--I enjoyed reading the Greek classics. Paper prompts are straightforward, and there's only 3 papers and no weekly assignments. Take this class!
If you are looking for an easy, interesting elective, this is the class for you.
Very cool classics intro.
If you dont truly enjoy Greek epics like the Odyssey and the Illiad and Greek tragedies, do not take this course. You will find yourself mid semester (like I did) asking yourself why you took this course. However, Professor Nagy is a very interesting and very sweet man who is genuinely interested in the students. He was one of the leading factors as to why I took this course and what got me through this course.
There is not a lot of work, but make sure you are interested in the subject matter other wise it will be very boring and hard to write about.
All students could get from this class what they put in. If you were really interested in Greek Heroes the learning was endless and if it was just taken as a gen ed it was not difficult and you still learned more than you would expect.
It is easy because there are limited assignments and no exams, but it is not interesting and tedious.
There is a lot of reading
Good class that doesn't have a ridiculous amount of work but lets you learn a lot and engage in very interesting discussions.
easy and enjoyable
Not at all interested in the subject, learned pretty much nothing. Very little work, but I did not get an A or A- on either paper which I think is pretty hard grading for this gen ed. Grading seems to be based on section leader.
This is a great class to complement a busy schedule.
Great course if you want to learn about Greek culture and literature. The work is very manageable, and all of the readings have sparknotes if you're running short on time.
The work load isn't a lot but the material is hard to understand.
The lectures of this class are very dry, but the section and the materials of this course are very engaging.
You don't need to go to class. Go to section to build a good relationship with your TF. Now in terms of the papers, if you don't go to lecture it may be hard to come up with a topic or examples to write about. Office hours are your friend.
They looking for a hero, I guess that makes me a hero.
If you do the readings and are engaged you will get a lot out of the course. If not, you will still get a good grade, but the class will feel like a waste of time.
It is extremely boring but very easy and there are no tests, just three essays
You get out what you put in. Do the readings, and you will learn more than you expect.
Great class, it helps you learn how to write.
I would tell them to always attend section prepared to ask questions and to not worry about the confusing nature of lectures, as section clears everything up.
Read the material.
This class is very easy. It's some interesting reading, and the only graded work is three relatively short papers. If you have some interest in Ancient Greek mythology, and are looking for an easy class to get a cursory understanding, then this class is perfect for you. Otherwise, you may find it boring.
It's an interesting course that you should take if you're looking for a fun, lighter elective (although the papers can be tricky). Professor Nagy is incredibly knowledgeable and the hours really fly by.
Work load is entirely manageable, papers are graded fairly and lecture is interesting with Nagy being incredibly knowledgable but entirely optional.
The reading is the most important aspect of this course.
This class is truly a gem. It's interesting, it's super easy, you don't have to do a lot of work, and it fulfills a gen ed. You can do well in this class without going to lecture. You really don't even have to do the bulk of the reading.
Really straightforward and easy course. Just don't forget to do the weekly web responses (although there are opportunities to make it up by being scribe, etc.) Lectures are pretty pointless. Section is enough to learn about the material. Three essays - very short. Probably the least amount of work I've done for a course.
I had never read the Iliad and Odyssey before and am glad to have tackled these texts by way of Prof. Nagy
Minimal work, fair grading. You can also learn a lot if you apply yourself to the material.
Do the reading. You could probably get away with skimping on it, but you will get a lot more out of the class if you read the texts. They are Western classics.
Great class! Nagy makes the class both educational and enjoyable. It is good for both people already interested in Classics and those willing to learn. I recommend doing all of the assigned reading, as it all interesting and pertinent to the class. I highly recommend this class!
This class is beyond painless. Prof Nagy is an old hilarious man who somehow connects greek tragedies to star trek and robot sex scenes (but actually). Even better, lecture and the readings are completely optional to do well - you literally can just wait until the essay is assigned and do whatever work you need to write it. More or less a zero effort course that is easily graded with a pretty amusing teacher for when you do wanna go (plus he's apparently like the foremost scholar on this stuff and has been teaching it for like 60 years)
Take it! Especially if you think Achilles is sweet and don't want to do too much homework. I really liked this Gen Ed and lectures have tangential funny/strange videos.  Calliopi was the best TF ever too.
This class is completely dependent on what TF you get. If you have a TF who's willing to work with you and help you understand the material, you'll get a great grade and have a great time in the course. If you have my TF, who assumes everyone is an expert in Greek Mythology, you'll get a C- and leave pretty upset.
Greek Heroes is a great course for a number of reasons. Aside from being a way to ease workload, it really offers an interesting perspective on classical Greek texts. Professor Nagy is extremely versed in his field.
In general, this class is very easy and requires little to no work each week to get by. Lectures are more or less optional when it comes to doing well in the class, especially since the only grades were essays and the short weekly responses. Nagy is very enthusiastic about the material, so his lectures can be interesting, but they are usually not related to what you will be asked to write about on your essays. Very easy class to get a gen ed out of the way
Great course. Guy Smoot is by far the best TF I've had at Harvard.
Readings are very interesting, so read them. It makes doing the assignments more fun, and way easier. Take this class if you want an easy, interesting class. Can get boring at times, and I ended up not going to half of the lectures without consequence.
A good class, though Nagy's lectures are somewhat idiosyncratic and might not be what you expect when taking a course about great classical literature.
Fun course. Not too much work, and the things you read are pretty cool.
This is a great class. Interesting topics, manageable assignments, and chill professor make this an enjoyable class.
Cleos WHAT.
This is a great class to take to satisfy the Culture and Belief  gen ed. It is interesting and not very demanding.
Great class. Professor Nagy is awesome and the readings are really cool. Manageable workload and a great way to fulfill the C&B Gen Ed.
If you are interested in taking a course that takes minimal amount of work, then consider this one! The material is actually interesting and the assignments are easy.
If you have read the materials before taking this class, you couldn't find an easier gem.  Lecture, albeit interesting, is not required to do well. Assignments are pretty easily graded as well.
This is an instance of gen ed done right. Extremely manageable material that is still interesting enough that you are motivated to do all the readings. Love Professor Nagy and my TF. Hands down y favorite class this semester. Might have motivated me enough to pursue a secondary in classics.
Definitely pay attention to overarching themes in literature.
It is a good general education course to take.
fairly light course load, learned a lot about greek culture and mythology
Really interesting class, the lecture format was very well done. My section leader graded our papers alot harder and more intensely than I expected, so make sure you take the essays seriously.
You can take this class if you want to learn about greek culture, but don't expect to learn a lot about the beauty of the Odyssey or the Iliad or any of the texts you read. You pretty much just move from text to text while the professor builds his narrative about the "hero cult" in ancient Greece, which by the way, is not nearly as cool as it sounds.
pretty painless way to fulfill culture and belief, fun to listen to professor nagy, good texts to know and be familiar with in general. May not be most interesting overall but worth it!
The readings for the class are great, and the topic is very enriching. In this class, students are encouraged to consider very serious questions about the way to live one's life, to read great pieces of literature, and to immerse themselves in ancient Greek culture.
Not a challenging course, but there may be grading disparities based on who your TF is.
Sections are by far the most helpful, but the material is all for the most part interesting
This is not as easy of a class as you think it will be, but it was worth taking nevertheless. Prof. Nagy is one of those professors who get you into the subject you initially were only remotely interested in, just because they themselves are so passionate about it. If you forgot what taking a class with a professor blindly passionate about teaching undergraduates feels like, you should take this class.
Professor Nagy is so enthusiastic about teaching this course. It is run extremely well with a strong teaching staff. I would only advise that there's an absurd amount of reading to keep up with each class in terms of the Hours and the H24H's, so plan accordingly.
The readings are enjoyable, and sections are good especially if you have Guy Smoot as your TF.
This course is rewarding and interesting without being time intensive.
Great course.  The papers are totally doable with out knowing much about the readings beforehand.
This course is awesome! Minimal work, but the assigned readings are actually very intriguing. Nagy and his TFs are engaging and fun, especially Sasha! By far my favorite course at Harvard so far.
A good, low intensity gen ed course.
The reading list alone would make this class worthwhile, but this is further supported by Professor Nagy's excellent analysis of each piece, and the wonderful job that both section and the essay assignments do in provoking discussion, thought, and reflection on the themes seen in Greek epic and tragedy.
Interesting material
Lectures were entertaining but didn't seem super-relevant to the papers. Be on-top of the readings for the papers!
This class has a really light workload, but it is really boring, and they don't grade as easily as you are expecting them to. You don't need to go to class, only write the papers.
Prof. Nagy gives the most unique lectures at Harvard and the class is a real gem! As a senior, I really feel like this class is one I will remember for the rest of my life and I hold zero regrets in taking it. The class, put simply, is one of a kind!
This course felt disorganized at times and lectures were tough because people did not prepare. I did enjoy the essays which always allowed for independent exploration.
This is a great option to fufill your gen ed requirement. Make sure you keep up with the blog posts and put enough time into the papers and you'll be fine. Anna is a great TF, so try to get her if she's still teaching in the future.
This is an easy class that will give you back what you put into it! Not very hard assignments, but the readings are long.
This a great course that doesn't require much work, and is especially easy for those with a strong background in the Classics or the Iliad and the Odyssey.
easiest, but useless class. you wont get anything out of the class but it is an easy A for a Gen Ed
This class is relatively easy.
grading depends a lot on your section leader for papers. lectures are not very useful or relevant but are interesting and funny
This class is very interesting, and there is not a lot of coursework. Overall, a good way to satisfy CB Gen ed.
Greek Heroes may be listed as one of the easy courses, but you get out of it what you put in. If you do the readings and focus on the essays, you will come out of the class with a better understanding of Greek Mythology and interesting stories from the works you will have read. The teaching staff is genuinely interested in getting the students excited about the material and Professor Nagy is an extremely kind and entertaining lecturer.
Awesome introduction to Ancient Greek lit. Take it!
If you love classics, definitely take it!
This is not just an easy A class; the essays, while short, can be graded quite harshly. But the professor is so excited about the subject that lectures are actually worth attending.
Section was great and pushed me to be a better writer, lectures while interesting seemed to be a little random
Professor Nagy is great, definitely take this class.
As gen eds go, this is one of the better ones. The material's interesting, you learn a bit about the culture and history of the area, and it's important since it informs Western culture and Christianity. Get Guy if you can, he's a great TF and is very thorough.
This was a very good culture and belief gen ed. Although there was a lot of reading, if you could figure out what was important then you could cut it down. Essays were reasonable, and grading was fair. Although lectures were interesting, they weren't necessary for understanding the material. Section was great, and it really helped me with the course and made it enjoyable.
difficult to stay engaged without some background in the subject matter
The class is extremely manageable. Depending on your TF, you might have more assignments than others in different sections.
This is a great class if you are interested in ancient Greek culture. The Professor is great and knows a lot about the subject.
It's definitely a gen-ed.
Get a good section leader!
This is a great course if you're looking for something easy, fun, and interesting. That said, many people go into this course only looking for something easy. As a result, the sections are pretty underwhelming. You can get a lot out of it if you care to, but there's no need. All in all, it's a very fun and interesting way to spend a couple hours a week.
Definitely take this class--Professor Nagy makes it fun and the readings are very interesting.  It's not really time consuming, either.
I actually wish there were a final. The discussions in class fell so flat because no one did the readings..
this is an engaging but also chill course.  Professor Nagy and Head TF Alex Forte were awesome.  Easy course where you get out as much of it as you want.
This class is not too difficult, and you can easily scrape by with a minimum of effort. But Greek literature is truly wondrous, and you will get a lot out of it just by reading the texts. Lectures are somewhat hit-or-miss, given that some of the pop culture references are getting dated, but Prof. Nagy is one of the foremost experts on Greek literature.
This is an awesome class. Professor Nagy is incredibly knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the subject. If you ever plan on reading the Iliad and the Odyssey in your life time, read it with Professor Nagy in this class. He makes it fun and points out themes that you never would have picked up on. Also, the section part of the class is pretty relaxed which is nice because you can just read the stories (which are fun to read!) and discuss them in a comfortable environment, rather than being worried about being tested on them. Very fun and interesting class!
I really enjoyed this class.  It was in some senses, an ideal Gen-Ed class, because the material was interesting, the professor and TFs were engaging, and the course wasn't particularly challenging.  I think this is one of those courses where you get out what you put in, so there's a lot to be learned and appreciated if you're willing to put in just a little effort.
At first, I did not think I would learn much, being that I've read the Odyssey and Illiad in HS. However, I came away with a better understanding of both pieces. We also studied other works I was previously foreign to. I thoroughly enjoyed writing the essays and workload was minimal.
Not difficult by any standard, but a good way to engage with important texts of ancient Greek literature that shaped the western canon.
The class is generally easy with little work (except when the 3 papers are due), but how much you actually like this class really depends on how you go into it. For example, prior to this class I had very little experience with Greek literature, so little I had never read the Iliad or the Odyssey prior to this class, both of which I am now relatively well familiar with and can talk about easily, which is probably an important skill. A lot of other had already read the main works of the course and just wanted an easy class, but I wanted an easy class that I actually got something out of. That being said, I'd recommend this class as a good way to take care of a gen ed.
This class has a lot of reading but it is manageable
You do not need to do all the reading in order to do well.  That being said, the material is actually very interesting and Greg Nagy is incredibly enthusiastic about it, which makes it better.
Take this class if you are looking for an amazing lecturer, interesting material, insightful TFs and an overall easy way to fulfill a gen ed req. TAKE IT!
Do the readings
This class is excellent for a light work load. Make sure you meet with your TF before writing your essays and you will do well.
Make sure you do the readings.
Make sure you get a good TF who you can understand. It will affect your performance in the class greatly.
Be ready to fully engage in difficult pieces of literature.
It's not a ton of work if you keep up with the main readings and come up with strong paper topics. The TFs are great and Professor Nagy is fantastic.
Great class, attend lecture and do the readings to really enjoy the class
Professor Nagy asks you to read his write-ups (which are sometimes interesting, but more often tedious) and then reiterates them almost word-for-word in lecture. You can do very well in the class without attending a single lecture. This fact alone should deter you from taking this class. I came in with a prior interest in Greek mythology and was thoroughly disappointed by the presentation of the material. Professor Nagy shows random video clips in lecture that are only tangentially-related to the readings. In any case, to be fair, this class exposes you to classic works such as the Iliad and Plato's Apology. It also nicely balances out a rigorous course load.
This is a great class if you like the classics.
This course did not offer the overview of Greek mythology that I anticipated. Instead it focused on a short list of Greek terms and looked for mentions of said words in the texts. Consequently, students suffered from lack of understanding of basic story lines and connectedness of the texts. Lectures were incredibly irrelevant in that they focused on contemporary references that had little to do with assigned texts. Also, section TFs varied in difficulty, with my TF being unfairly overly critical in grading papers.
This class is fairly easy, but not extremely interesting unless you have a passion or interest in Greek literature.
If you are interested in the classics and Greek oral tradition, this class will be of great interest to you.
do the readings
If you are into the subject of Greek Mythology - then this is the course for you.  Do not take it to simply fill a Gen-Ed requirement.  It is a heavy reading class.  It is interesting, but if you do not have the time to dedicate to the readings, it may be more stressful than worth it.  Professor Nagy is great and super enthusiastic, but you don't have the enthusiasm as well, it will be a long semester.
Good class to take if looking to fulfill gen ed requirement
