You really need to be interested about this topic - lots of heavy readings and concepts! Essay options were fun, and final project is cool because you can do basically anything you want related to the course themes!
This class presents material applicable to all
CB 61: Gender and Science was an excellent class that actually made me excited to come to 10 o'clock lecture. The lectures were fascinating and engaging, and all of the assignments were creative and not too difficult. I did think the grading in this class was a little tough, but this may be a product of it being a new course this semester. Additionally, there was a lot of course reading that did not get discussed, and I felt like section could have been conducted better.
It is an interesting class but be prepared for the accompanying work that is deceivingly more than you might think.
Take some of the information they give you with a grain of salt!
Wonderful professor, fascinating sections, manageable workload. The reading can be a bit much, but Sarah goes over them extensively in lecture - even made Foucault manageable and fun.
The class is interesting although not as strictly science oriented as advertised by the course description. The assignments are held to a high standard so it is defniitely not a show up, turn my work in, do well kind of class. You have to put significant effort and time in-- including rewriting at least one assignment.
This class was a great introduction to issues at the intersection of gender and science - I definitely recommend that people who are in the sciences and/or who are interested in these issues take the class!! It is not too much work, it's fun to work on a creative final project, and you definitely learn about some interesting topics to discuss with friends.
This course is INCREDIBLE. Take it. Professor Richardson gives excellent lectures (seriously, you won't want to miss lecture ever) and she paints a story so vivid and precise that it is impossible not to swept away in her argument. If you have any interest at all in any subject like this, I highly recommend it. It will challenge your fundamental beliefs about gender, science, and how we tell history. Especially if you are a guy--take this class!!!
this class was fantastic.  it presented a really interesting subject matter and allowed for a lot of creativity with your engagement with it.  All of the teaching staff is truly engaged.  I recommend this class highly--for men and women--for scientists and non-scientists.
This material in this class is going to irritate you so much because you find out about so many injustices but then you want to right all the wrongs. You get very passionate.
This course is great! Very welcoming environment and interesting material. Some depth is lost in its breadth, but it's great
This is an amazing class to take if you have any interest in gender differences and science. It is a lot of fun and the assignments are very interesting.
Great class! I learned a lot!
Take this course The readings are incredible. It's the most incredible teaching staff I've ever worked with. The final project is an intervention in Women and Science and it's so important for just - life and learning and everything. You're given ample room for creativity with all of the assignments and they also take writing very seriously and give opportunities for rewrites. The whole course also operates with a certain argument which makes the curriculum clear and each lecture a complete pleasure to attend. It's not just a general education class, it's a class that transforms the way you look at science as a discipline, the studies and articles that relate to differences between the genders/sexes, and general life skills for being in a room of people with differing opinions learning about things that anger them, blow their minds, and make them think and reconsider. Take it take it take it.
This. course. is. AMAZING. Please, take this course! It changed my life. The readings aren't always easy to get through, but this was the first time the course has been offered. The teaching staff is FREAKING GREAT!!!! Seriously, the professor and all 3 TFs really worked hard on developing and executing this course. This is the first course I've taken at college that started with historical stuff and transitioned smoothly to contemporary stuff (some courses don't even get to the contemporary). I would've liked to see more class and race analysis, and more readings by non-white women. The professor did a good job in talking about race and class at the beginning, but fell off. I LOVED the science fiction unit. The final project being open is also great, but kind of overwhelming because they tried to standardize assessment (10 pgs double spaced) for all projects - stories, research papers, plays, etc. Which, is not their fault. I was surprised at how many people did creative projects - stories, plays, apps, toys/toy concepts, etc. I loved the 3 unit assignments and how you only had to do 2. The final project can feel disconnected from the rest of the course if you do a more creative project, but the unit papers/projects are directly relevant to the course material so you don't feel like you're going to lecture for nothing. I am graduating next year and can honestly say this is one of the greatest classes I've ever taken (and I usually am annoyed when people say that). The other amazing one was a class I took at a Harvard graduate school. The teaching staff here has their shit together.
A phenomenal course! Professor Richardson is a great lecturer, and it's not too much work. This course isn't just for women or just for science students--I would unreservedly recommend it to everyone.
This is an amazing class to take, for everyone as it effects everyone. However, as a female science major I also got a lot of additional support and solidarity out of this class and became more educated annoy issues that influence my everyday life.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It gave me an entirely new perspective on the world of science which I thought I understood so thoroughly, and made me think of the history of women in science, how cultural influences affect scientific practices, and the social responsibility of science to the larger society of the world. The assignments are flexible and fascinating, and the reading is always interesting. Also, the teaching staff are absolutely incredible!
I think this course will get better with time. As a first time around it was pretty solid, exploring interesting subject matter with a great professor and teaching fellows. At times, it felt a little unorganized, which makes sense for first time around. Lectures would sometimes be rushed. Hard grading on papers, but you get a rewrite. Awesome final project with lots of choices.
Professor Richardson and all of the teaching staff are so great! This class was so well-run, even in its first year! It is only sure to improve looking forward. The content is so interesting - check out this year's syllabus to get a sense of the three units, all exploring the intersection of gender and science/technology in some way. What we do need is more GUYS taking the course. The in-class/section discussion could certainly benefit from your perspective!
This is an easy class, but you learn a lot of useful informational tid-bits. If you can't name more than 1 female scientist it is worth taking this class because it really is ridiculous to think that none of history's important female scientific figures are taught in school.
Great class. Low time commitment, interesting and important topic. Lectures and readings examine many fascinating moments in the history of science and culture. Richardson is an engaging lecturer who weaves a coherent narrative across all of it. Men especially should take this class.
This class is definitely more of a gen-ed than a history of science course (and as a history of science concentrator, I was more interested in that aspect of the course). Professor Richardson is a great lecturer and is really passionate about the subject. Definitely check out the syllabus in depth before enrolling because the class wasn't what I expected. That being said, I definitely got a lot out of it and would recommend.
a great class, very relevant information for everyone, women and men! really interesting to learn about the history portion, and the final project is awesome!
WOW, what an amazing course! This class has actually made me want to take more WGS classes. You'll love the lectures AND the readings. I always left lectures feeling super empowered about my position in society as a woman and the readings gave tremendous perspective. In fact, I usually am the sort of student who does maybe 1/3rd of the readings for my Gen Eds. This was the first class for which I did literally ALL of the readings--they were just too interesting for me to not do this! Please take this class. The final projects were amazing--I had so much fun with mine and I love-love-loved everyone else's projects. The projects are an opportunity to stage an intervention related to women/gender in science. Super cool!! I can't recommend this class enough.
I have never recommended a course with more enthusiasm. Everyone should take this course--especially if you have never studied anything about gender studies or  science. I came in as somewhat of an outsider to the main themes of the course and was able to learn so much from the diverse group of classmates and from the teaching staff who, quite literally, may have been the best teaching staff for a single course I have ever encountered. My favorite aspects of the course were the very interesting readings and the projects, which were a great opportunity to bring creativity back into classwork. Even the dullest moments in this course were incredibly compelling. You should at least shop this class!
-The professor is so knowledgeable and willing to engage with students.-The lectures are very engaging and informative.-The readings and assignments can be heavy at times, but overall they are very worthwhile. -Students were truly interested in the course material and discourse surrounding it.
Fascinating material that really makes you think about gender in society and science. Workload fluctuates depending on the assignments.
THIS CLASS IS AWESOME. Take it, you won't regret it. It really opened up my eyes to the pervasive gender bias in all walks of life, from STEM fields to science fiction to children's toys. Prof Richardson is an amazing lecturer, the readings are actually enjoyable, and the final project was really fun. Don't miss the chance to take this class!
This was one of the best courses that I have ever taken at Harvard. I originally took it because it fit into my schedule and looked pretty interesting. It turned into an amazing class that I thoroughly enjoyed. I always wanted to attend lecture simply because the material was that great.
It's a good intro class to gender studies. They will fix the bugs. Lectures are interesting and assignments are varied.
Take this class!!! The material is eye-opening, analytical, and important. Professor Richardson is amazing -- her lectures are flawless and incredibly engaging, she's such a nice person, and her dedication to the undergraduates in the class is clear. The wonderful Teaching Fellows, and a self-selected group of engaged peers, made going to section something I looked forward to every week. Whether you're a "science person" or super into WGS, this class is absolutely amazing. I could not recommend it more highly!
