Fantastic material, excellent lectures (depending on who's teaching in the future, of course). Can be a lot of reading at times. Digital humanities stuff can sometimes lack direction or feel unrelated to the rest of the course.
This is not an easy CB gen-end: be prepared for plenty of readings, response papers, and an individual project that is a decent amount of time and effort throughout the semester.  It can also feel a bit disjointed at times, but this might change in the future as they iron out details. That being said, it is a very interesting course that studies the Middle Ages by looking at certain themes and groupings, making connections between different time periods and geographical areas.  The final project, creating an exhibit based off an an object you study the whole semester, can be really fun and rewarding if you put thought and time into it.
Don't take this class unless you're a sucker like me who absolutely has to for a secondary field requirement.
A course unlike many others- you will have the opportunity to engage with two amazing professors in an intimate setting as they expertly relate to you the subjects that they are most interested in. It's a chance to engage with material from a distant past, and have it brought to life for you.
It's a lot of reading, but the subject material is fascinating.
This course was okay, but could use some work. The two main lecturers was genuinely nice people that were very passionate about the course material. Unfortunately, I don't think I got much out of the assignments, especially the digital ones, which just felt very high schooly. I'm sure that will change in future years though, since they were already talking about ways to improve, and I do want to reiterate the professors are great!
Take it if Nicholas Watson is teaching (but you could say that about any course at Harvard!) The course staff made some significant organizational changes to the class this year, adding a digital humanities element that didn't really pan out and often distracted from the readings. At times, it felt like taking two classes at once, one interesting, one a drag.
Don't take unless you love the Middle Ages.
Making the Middle Ages is what you make of it. Profs. McKenna and Watson are incredible, and the 10am lectures are worth going to for them alone. Half the grade in the course is a museum curatorial project, where you are given the opportunity to investigate any idea/region/area of interest you have and pursue it fully. Excellent and relatively painfree way to complete CB and you'll have fun along the way.
If you are interested in medieval culture, this is the CB class for you. The professors are great and are really knowledgable about the material. The workload is a little intense so be careful.
Great class! A lot of fun, great teaching staff. Reasonable expectations.
This class is one of the best at Harvard! Professors McKenna and Watson are both passionate medievalists and excellent teachers. The trajectory of the class is well-planned and gives a student a great view into the life of medieval people.
For a gen ed course, this course has quite a bit of work. You should have at least some interest in medieval culture and have an idea of what you would like to learn more about. Doing research for the final project can require more time than you'd think.
The course is great, just be prepared for "different" assignments and the 1.5 hour length
This class is a fun and interesting introduction to aspects of medieval culture. To be clear, it is NOT a survey course. It is not particularly challenging or time consuming. The professors are excellent lecturers and wonderful people.
This course was great. Professors Watson and McKenna are fantastic. No matter who you are, you'll (probably) love this course.
The class was a spectacular way to learn about one of the most interesting periods in time. It was taught by an extremely passionate teaching group, and that simply added to the experience.  Professor Watson and Professor McKenna both enjoy history more than anybody else I've ever seen, and I enjoyed history because of this enthusiasm.
Nicholas Watson and Catherine McKenna are both incredible professors. They are incredibly knowledgable, engaging, hilarious, and extremely kind and approachable. I took this for my Culture and Belief requirement, and it turned out to be one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The actual amount of work turns out to be quite substantial, though it may not immediately feel like it. But even the work itself was quite a treat. The class does not try to be a survey course, and I feel like that made everything that we covered even more rewarding. We delved in deeply into Saints, Dreams, Astrolabes, and King Arthur, and I found it much preferable to study a few topics intensely than try to learn a few superficial facts for each decade of the Middle Ages.
This was a great gen ed class to take. It was not very challenging but was very interesting and had great professors.
This class is really quite enjoyable. The module format is extremely well structured and easy to follow along with, the professors are knowledgable, friendly, and funny, and the teaching staff is very committed to making the course experience as streamlined and effective as possible. There are a lot of readings assigned, and you can't really do all of them, but neither the instructors nor the assignments require you to have completed all of the readings. Sections are pretty laid back and the TFs are both great. You also don't always have to go to lecture. Following along with the general gist of the readings is enough to get along well if you are in a pinch.
They are the coolest professors ever. And not in the Mean Girls "cool mom" kind of way. They just have so much passion when they teach that the material comes alive. The course is built so that you can experience a bit of their passion and also learn a lot about the Middle Ages. Its great. Take it.
This class allows for a lot of great hands-on interaction with the distant Middle Ages. The professor and TFs bring a lot of life and enthusiasm to the class. Prepare for a good amount of outside reading, which is not always incredibly interesting. Lectures are usually more interesting. Take this class if you want to understand what medieval culture entailed, and prepare to have common misconceptions challenged.
Very fun course.  It's clear that Prof. Smail and the TF staff put a ton of effort into the planning of this course, and they pull it off.  The assignments are unorthodox, fun, and almost entirely done on a computer.  The subject matter is expansive, and can be connected to just about anything in your life.  Take this course before the enrollment numbers explode--they will.
This is a really fun amazing class!  Freshman should take it!! You get to know your Prof. and your TFs, you learn an amazing amount about how to do research and how to write well. It's really interesting and engaging without having a killer workload.  The lectures are really cool and unusual, the format is almost half lecture and half discussion and everyone became really active and engaged.  The readings are a little more hit or miss but are usually not overly long and can be really cool.  You also get to look at and study objects in a really amazing way, its a great opportunity to interact with some of the pieces in the Harvard museums.
Don't take it to fill the "I need an easy course slot" You get SO MUCH from this course if you take it seriously and put work into it.
TAKE THIS COURSE if you need an interesting, easy Gen Ed.  It was relaxed, but I learned a lot.  The staff learns your name, expects you to participate, and looks for you in class -- so you absolutely have to show up.  But since participation is 40%, you would want to anyway.  The lecture materials don't show up in any sort of exam, so even though everyone must show up, I noticed a lot of people doing doing work for other classes.  That said, Professor Smail keeps the class as interactive as possible, taking us on field trips and using the last half hour for group work, so it's definitely not boring!
Obviously I was a tad hesitant enrolling in a 'new course' but from day one this course was absolutely fantastic. I had never taken a college history course! Daniel Smail is a fantastic lecturer and approaches "history" from a different way than you have ever seen before. There is useless memorization or learning - the assignments are basically what you want them to be. With only 3 short papers and final project the workload isn't bad at all, but even better you have the power to make each assignment as interesting and worth doing as you want. The TFs are probably the best I have ever had in a course at Harvard, they know everything and want to help you do everything. Absolutely fantastic course - there is no other option for Culture and Belief.
This is honestly one of the best classes I've taken in my four years at Harvard.
The class in interesting and interactive, and Professor Smail and the TFs work hard to make sure it's not the same week after week. They also do a good job of making connections across areas and time periods.
A great Gen Ed! Course is very fun, the projects may seem like a lot, but they didn't take that long and were very fun to do. Professor Smail was great, he was extremely engaging and the TF's were extremely helpful.
This class is the perfect GenEd course--interesting, engaging, thought-provoking, but not over the top. The papers instead of exams keeps it low key, but Smail ensures that everyone is still learning. TAKE THIS CLASS!
This class has more work than I had expected for a gen ed, but the teaching staff really do make all the effort in the world in this class, which makes it hard to not want to yoursel
Get to know the tfs-they're amazing.  Don't underestimate the papers.  Do the readings... they're actually enjoyable! Professor Smail's lectures are amazing. This is a great way to do the Culture & Belief gened.
It's quite an easy class, and is probably a great chice if you love history.
Take this course! Professor Smail is great and makes history fun.
This class is a good mix of field trips, papers, and lectures. The readings, while long, were interesting and not hard to comprehend. Professor Smail and the TFs are all knowledgeable and helpful.
A great introduction to the medieval world. This course lets you take a very hand-on approach to engaging with and experiencing the middle ages in a tremendous variety of ways.
CB 51 is great GenEd to take. The assignments are unlike any that I have encountered in the college and include creativity, use of technology, as well as exposure to art. As a science concentrator, I sometimes found it hard to relate to all the history, but the incredible and accessible teaching staff truly allowed for me to excel. I recommend this class to all interested in dispelling the myths about the Middle Ages and anyone who is willing to learn without even knowing it. You even learn how to cite super easily. Freshmen hop on this course! It's so gooood.
Professor Smail and Rowan were very invested in the class and the material, and that was great. This class was a new perspective into some of the things in the Middle Ages. It was a little disjointed and we moved pretty quickly across various things, so it was harder to get a completely coherent view, but it was a wide and interesting sample of things from the Middle Ages that we looked at. It is aimed at dispelling the positive/negative connotations and mysteries surrounding the time period. The grading is pretty easy it was very manageable. A pretty easy Gen Ed in general while being interesting, though perhaps not as relevant to today's world.
This is an excellent way to fulfill C&B.  The teaching staff is incredible, there are no exams, and the assignments/projects are painless.  Plus, I feel like I learned a lot!
Prof. Smail delivers one of the most engaging classes I have ever taken. You will be stunned by this revolutionary survey of the most misunderstood period in World History. The TF's are the most engaged and knowledgeable I have ever worked with. The whole course doesn't feel like a lecture-section-lecture-section..etc, but rather an involved, collaborative romp through the Middle Ages. Without a doubt the best Gen-Ed I have taken at Harvard.
This is a great introduction to the Middle Ages.  Professor Smail gives wonderful lectures, the TFs are fabulous, and the course material is really interesting.  You get to look at fun and obscure objects of the Middle Ages that you may not see in a typical survey course, and you learn some useful research skills that will help you in other classes.  Definitely take this class.
This class is the perfect GenEd. You will engage with extremely interesting and surprising material, along with having the freedom to pursue a vein of study which interests you. You will experience some of Harvard's treasures, in the Sackler Museum, Houghton Library, even be able to handle objects centuries old. You will learn skills that will help with all your other courses, especially research skills. Look no further for a CB requirement.
So I took this class, hoping it would be a gem but there are so many assignments that it's hardly a breeze. The assignments are easy but theyre so frequent that it cancels itself out.
This course is fun, relaxed, and I highly suggest taking this for a CB credit. It's never dull! There are many assignments, and while they're not too difficult, they are frequent and require constant attention to deadlines.
This is such a unique course that introduces you to medieval history and gives you context for any European history course through a wide variety of lecture topics and fun projects!
You know it's a bad class when the professor takes roll call at every lecture. Don't be deceived by the syllabus - avoid at all costs.
Take this course - it's fun, and innovative, and a whole new way to learn history. One of the best Geneds I have taken. Perfect for senior spring!
This class is really worth it. I'm not promising it will be thrilling at every point along the way, but I do promise that you'll love most of the material. The work is fairly constant but never overwhelming; it's pretty well spaced-out, and you're never tested on the reading material so that part of it is low-stress. Professor Smail is just the best--he and the TF team are incredibly helpful and constantly available to help out with anything, and I'm not sure what the teaching staff will be next year but if they keep any of it it'll be worth taking. Really, this is an excellent class and I recommend it to everyone who wants to both deal with a gen-ed and get a great introduction to the study of the Middle Ages. Also, go T-Cow.
It is amazing and really interesting!
This class is SO amazing. The teaching staff forms one of the kindest groups on campus, the material is fascinating, and trips to museums in the area make the class a real treat. Truly I cannot say enough good things about Making the Middle Ages- assignments afford a great deal of freedom to the student, and allow one to conduct research on a personally interesting topic. Dan's lectures are fantastic- he learns everybody's names and we discuss things actively in class, as well as exploring the world through Prezi presentations. TFs are amazing. However, Dan will not teach the class in its next iteration, which could change things dramatically. But take the class!! Truly, one of the best classes I had the privilege to take my freshman year.
Taking CB51 with Smail is fantastic. He has really interesting lectures and all of the section TF's are great. The work is fairly minimal and low stress as it is separated into group projects that are mainly worked on in class and 3 other papers throughout the semester. The style of the class is set up so that you are not directly accountable for the information presented during lecture which allows you to appreciate the content without worrying about memorizing specific dates or facts. Overall very enjoyable and learned new things about the Middle Ages that I did not know before.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. If professor Smail is teaching the course again, you should really take it! If you have any or no interest in the middle ages, this class is a fun way to take an elective or knock out a CB requirement.
Professor Smail is not teaching this class next year so your experience may be totally different but I did not like the structure of the course as much as I thought I would. We never got too in depth into one topic and we skipped a lot of information like the plague,etc. We primarily focused on religion, but that might be because it was such an important part of their life. Professor Smail makes great connections between the Middle Ages and today, but I am not sure what I can take away after taking this course. I don't have clear cut reasons for not enjoying this course as much but I think the structure is a big factor. This class is a survey class.
This course has a fantastic staff and fascinating lectures if you're interested in the middle ages. It's a really easy way to knock out the CB gen ed with no midterms or final plus the projects are actually interesting although you're almost always working on one or more projects.
Professor Smail and the teaching staff are great, but the assignments were confusing and I didn't feel like I got a lot out of them.  The assignments were pretty easy and there weren't a lot of them but they were graded fairly strictly.  Smail teaches about the Middle Ages from an interesting and unique perspective, but be aware that you don't learn much about the actual history of the Middle Ages, if that's what you're looking for.  That said, the teaching staff is unbelievably friendly and always willing to help.
This course is one of the best gen-eds offered at the college; the assignments are fun and interesting, and the teaching staff is very accessible and hilarious.  They place an emphasis on collaboration and project work, which means there is less pressure to memorize information and focus on facts, leaving you with the ability to think more about the broader implications of the material.
Professor Smail and the teaching fellows really make this course what it is. They are super knowledgeable and laid back, which makes the classroom environment fun and not stressful. I learned a lot of cool things about the Middle Ages and had fun in the process. The workload for this course was sporadic: for many weeks, we had almost no work, then one week I spent 10 hours writing an annotated bibliography. I would say definitely take this course, but only if Professor Smail teaches it. I understand that there will be two new teachers next year, and it still might be great, but I think that Smail is the soul of this course. Shop it and see how it is!
This course is not a typical history lecture course, rather it is very interactive.
The syllabus says 3 3-4 page papers. One of mine was 12, one was 10 and one was 4. The final paper was 25 pages. Absolutely ridiculous.
This is a very good course, which will no doubt inspire interest in the middle ages, but be prepared to do alot more work than is typically demanded in a Gen Ed course.
This class is absolutely incredible for both freshmen and seniors alike as a gen ed requirement or even as an elective class. I was a senior taking it for culture and belief and chose it primarily because I knew nothing about medieval history. I found it fascinating and incredibly worthwhile. The amount you get out of the class is exactly what you put in, and the year I was in the class, it benefited from having dedicated students who were interested in the material. It's not a joke class- you have to go to lecture and section since attendance is a significant part of your grade, and there are small projects you have to do throughout the course. However, I would say the teaching staff do a wonderful job making these projects worthwhile and entertaining (as opposed to just busy work) and their enthusiasm really shines through. Highly, highly recommended. Easily one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
This course is great! The teaching staff is unbelievably dedicated, and Professor Smail is an all-star. He is so kind and generous with his time. The quality of this course is determined by what you put into it. If you work hard, do the readings, and engage with Professor Smail and your TF, you will love this course!
It's a wonderful class to take at any time in your Harvard career, even as a thesising senior.
Although the teaching staff of this class was clearly exceptionally well-intentioned, I have never felt so condescended to in all my time at Harvard. Lectures, though mandatory, were an utter waste of time: the professor offered a very cursory overview of various topics and insisted on constantly trying to force students to engage with the material through a series of largely unpleasant, often exhausting, middle school-ish activities. However, some of the guest lectures were fun, and I know that the teaching staff will be different in the future. So, I would cautiously encourage students to take future iterations of this class with a different professor. I know some students did enjoy the class, so perhaps it would be worthwhile if you hope for a friendly face in your lecture hall, rather than a compelling argument or interesting information.
Definitely take it.  It's easy and the teachers were awesome.  I read absolutely nothing and did well.
This class is not as easy as some other gen eds, but you will learn something new and different, and the assignments are creatively designed make you think in new and different ways.
Professor Smail seems a bit quirky but is an excellent lecturer and really likes to get students involved. You do not need to do many readings for this course, but if you show up to class and participate you will do fine. The TF's Smail chose this year were excellent, which made the course even better. The only downside is that Prof. Smail prides himself on being a relatively tough grader in the humanities.
Take this class! Great overall gen-ed, Professor, TFs, assignments, subject!
Take this class! Smail is a fantastic professor who takes the time to make his lectures interesting and inclusive, and makes the effort to know everyone in (a relatively large) class within a couple of weeks. The TF's - or at least mine, Joey McMullen - are also really dedicated and kind. They give great feedback and appreciate the work that you put in. There are quite a few assignments, but these are very varied and interesting so they are not burdensome at all. Whether or not you know/care about medieval Europe, you will love this course.
This is one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. The coursework was engaging without being too difficult or stressful. The teaching staff was both caring and knowledgeable. The material was new to me, and had the potential to be esoteric but avoided it. The guest speakers were great. I touched really old books with my bare hands! Every time someone asked me what my favorite class was this semester I never hesitated, CB51 without a doubt.
smail is awesome and the tfs are great, interesting class with good assignments, but be aware that the course is going to demand more time of you than the syllabus seems to indicate and that there are some assignments not on the syllabus that you will have to do
This was a painless way to fulfill the CB requirement. Minus the (mostly short) papers, this was a fairly low weekly time commitment, and the lectures were always engaging. The only thing I can say is that the length of the final paper comes as a bit of a surprise, because while the others had been between 500 and 1200 words each, this one clocks in at 10 pages and requires a fair amount of research. The research itself can be annoying too, especially if you're not used to sitting in the library for hours reading about old artifacts (I'm kind of ashamed to admit that I'd never stepped foot in Widener before this class, and I'm a junior), but it was still and overall chill class, the projects were actually really fun (where else can you get into groups and compete to transcribe medieval texts, or sing medieval songs in class?), and I really recommend it!
This class is one of the best history classes I have taken in my life. The teaching staff did an excellent job of creating an enjoyable learning experience. The work is not too difficult and is often fun. As someone who loves the Middle Ages, I really appreciated the opportunity to learn more about the period than any of my past classes had offered.
Take this class!!!! Everything about it is amazing.  The projects are so interesting.  You can basically choose what you want t learn, which is an amazing opportunity!  The teaching staff is so helpful and knowledgeable.  I have nothing bad to say about it.
This is a good class if you want to learn about an interesting subject while at the same time not dealing with too much of a workload. If you need to fill a gen ed when you're taking a somewhat difficult schedule this is definitely a good class to take.
