Very cool lectures! The stuff you learn is very interesting. Be aware that while there are a ton of movies, only one of the three essays you write for the class can be on a movie. Also, while this class may seem like a history class, the essays you write wind up seeming like english papers.
The grading standards were all off and it seemed like the standards were too high for a gen-ed course. The coursework itself was very easy, but grading sometimes seemed harsh.
That it's very engaging and that all books and movies are very pertinent to the topics studied.
The books and novels are great!
If you were so inclined, you could get away with doing virtually zero work for this course except for the three short papers. That's a shame, I guess, because the books/films are *so* good. Be aware in advance that the lectures are historical, and have nothing to with the papers, which are all about film and literary analysis. Don't expect section discussions to go deeply enough into the texts/films to offer you any real help in writing the papers.
Show up to the movies. Not only are they a great excuse to take a study break one night a week, but they provide an opportunity to be exposed to films that many of us would not normally see.
It's super interesting and teaches you to think in a new way
The lectures were, in my opinion, almost entirely unnecessary. Peter Gordon is a wonderful lecturer, but nine times out of ten, I felt like I could have learned just as much reading a wikipedia summary. Lectures were basic summaries of history and the texts/films--I expected more. The assignments were even more miserly: it was like high school English prompts all over again. Section was, likewise, a throwback to high school English class. If you still need a gen ed class to fulfill SOW, while reading some great books and watching great books, this is a good class. However, be prepared for some easy but miserable assignments and section, and don't expect a whole lot out of lecture.
The films and novels addressed in this course are incredible. The complexity in style and theme in almost every work was phenomenal. The course provides a platform to move through all of these materials in a way that is relevant to the history of the regions and allows for discussion of these materials in meaningful ways. The greatest downfall is that there isn't enough time allowed for each of these materials to really discuss them in the depth that they warrant. Lectures, although interesting, sometimes become slightly repetitive and provide more of an overview than detailed analysis. This course is very good in terms of material and contextualizing them in history. It provides a fairly holistic view encompassing context for all of the works provided. The only downfall is perhaps the lack of depth at times offered to both the history and the works themselves. This may be explained by the type of course (gen ed, 1 semester), but I personally would have desired more.
This class was wonderful--Professor Gordon's lectures are fascinating and enjoyable and the class materials were terrific.
It isn't an inspiring class, but you will learn some solid history that will help you to understand the current situations of european countries. Some of the books and novels are wonderful (bicycle thieves, la strada, white teeth), others are extremely depressing (things: a story of the sixties, la haine), but most are classics and good to read. my main complaint was the lack of serious literary analysis of the literature. Gordon gave thematic summaries rather than literary analyses, and to me that was an extremely unsatisfying way to treat the novels and films.
I would HIGHLY recommend this course to any student who is at all interested in postwar Europe, in reading a number of the most interesting and acclaimed films and novels of the twentieth century, or in taking a class with an incredible professor and amazing teaching fellows.. As I have stated, the quality of instruction from both Professor Gordon and Tae-Yeoun was superb. Lectures were engaging, and I appreciated how Professor Gordon made an effort to connect material to contemporary events. He is a professor who truly cares very much about his students, and although it was a big course and I did not necessarily interact with him on a one to one basis, this was very apparent. Tae-Yeoun was the best TF I have had in my three years at Harvard! Gen-ed sections, often monotonous and unhelpful, were riveting in CB50 with her. She struck the exact right balance between leading the discussion in a good direction, but also letting students do most of the talking. I cannot stress enough that I have never had a TF who was more devoted, and eager to help to her students. Her enthusiasm for the course and course material made everyone eager to participate, and really engage with the material. I hope to take more courses with Professor Gordon and Tae-Yeoun, because they were two of the most wonderful and dedicated course leaders I have met at Harvard!
Interesting class that serves as a hybrid societies of the world/culture and belief course. The class has a very manageable workload (just 3 5-7 page papers) and the materials are interesting. Definitely a class I would take again.
Basically the most gen-ed class ever, in both good ways and bad. The books and the movies are great, though, and the class does provide a good platform to get to know them.
In this class you will read really interesting books and watch cool movies that you might otherwise never read or hear of. It covers a vast amount of historical information (which can be overwhelming) but this class is most rewarding if you focus on enjoying and interpreting the works and understanding the context that produced them.
Peter Gordon is a fantastic lecturer, and some of the novels and films in this class are classics that you should absolutely have read/watched in your life time! At times it seems like a lot of movie screenings/novels, but it's all worth it in the end. Highly recommend it. Also go to PG's office hours!
It is a very interesting course but do not expect an easy A. Professor Gordon seems concerned that people take gen eds with the expectation that they're easy, so grading is unnecessarily harsh with little explanation
Fantastic opportunity to read great novels and watch wonderful films, whilst learning about their place in the building of Europe as we know it.
This course is a unique take on history, film, and literature. It is well-taught and thought-provoking. The history of the postwar period plays out like an engaging serial story throughout the semester. History can be dry at times, but this course makes it exciting and sometimes even suspenseful. The workload can be a little heavy at times, but I think the extra time put in is definitely worth it.
Excellent. Peter Gordon is an amazing lecturer, the films and novels are all very interesting and enjoyable, and the course requirements are super laid-back. Probably one of the best ways to fulfill CB and worth taking anyway if you're looking for a fun and easy but still worthwhile class.
A great course with absolutely wonderful films/books you should definitely read/see at some point
Peter Gordon is a great lecturer. The films and novels he chooses are for the most part enjoyable
CB 50 is a good class, with interesting readings and very enjoyable films. I think Professor Gordon is a great lecturer, and also very attuned to the interests and concerns of students. I enjoyed it. My only reservation is rooted in the lack of clarity of assignments-it was not clear initially if the course was more of a history or more of a literature/culture class, and this lack of clarity hampered my work on some of the assignments. Overall though a good course, with very enjoyable readings, fascinating lectures, and lot of information relevant to the modern world that is often not examined.
This course provides a great overview of the post-war era in Europe. The films and novels are all very interesting and, for the most part, enjoyable. However, it is important to note that the films and novels are a serious time commitment and it is necessary to see/read all of them to be engaged in section. If you are interested in the material, this is a great course! If you are just doing it for the Gen Ed requirement, you might consider looking at other options.
Take this course! It gives as much as you put in. It is not stressful, but incredibly interesting.
This is a great way to learn about postwar European history and read and watch fantastic and influential novels and films in a low stress but very engaging environment.
This course serves as a fantastic survey of European postwar politics, literature, and film
Fantastic way to fulfill one of the gnarlier Gen Ed categories. The history portion (which is in and of itself kind of unusual for CB) is pretty lacking; there isn't much you'll learn here that you wouldn't get from a moderately strenuous afternoon of hopping around Wikipedia. However, it's in the artistic portions that the class really shines. The books are great, and the movies are emotionally moving and intellectually challenging. In fact, if I could give only one piece of advice about this class, it'd be to show up for the movie screenings every week. Professor Gordon is wonderful, and as for workload, it doesn't get much better than 3 6-page papers. Overall, one of the better Gen Eds I've taken so far.
For a subject oftentimes so bleak and despairing, this course is a great deal of fun. Seeing the European Postwar era through art gave me such a rich, clear, and mediating perspective on so many different yet interrelated socio-economic and political issues.
Don't expect to learn much about the history of post-war Europe.  Prof. Gordon is more interested in evoking laughter from and not stepping on the ideological toes of students than in actually providing an overview of the period.  Details are omitted, figures are sketched instead of studied, historical and political disagreements are glossed over, and the content is largely sapped of its interesting elements and left only an incomplete skeleton.  The redeeming element of this course is the films; they are brilliant, beautiful, challenging, and offer an excellent window into life in post-war Europe.  They don't make up for the professor's diluted lectures, but they do constitute a great opportunity for learning about film and whence it comes.
Gordon was "meh" to me.
If you know even the least bit about the postwar period in Europe you will be bored out of your mind and learn nothing new in lecture. You will certainly benefit from seeing the films and reading the novels and reading the Judt, but this is really not enough to make the lectures and the utterly useless and shallow sections worth it. Prof Gordon is great, but the class needs a thorough redesign to be worth it.
This class is a great way to fulfill a general education requirement with an interesting and engaging course. The workload is manageable and the course materials are very interesting, and Professor Gordon brings so much enthusiasm and knowledge to each lecture.
This is a very educational class but you be sure to do your own research and set up your own reading schedule, as the only homework is reading and watching the films- go see the films!
The grading in this class is extremely subjective and frustrating. TFs grade on differing and hard to understand scales, but most of them skew much harsher than writing for other Harvard courses without any real reason for doing so.
Great professor, great reads and films.
The topic of this course was really interesting and I loved my teachers: Professor Gordon's lectures were awesome, and Tae-Yeoun was super hard-working and helpful. I think this is a great taste of hist & lit because the focus is on the films and books of the era, and you get a general feel for European postwar culture rather than learning hard historical facts. As the course goes on though, the work multiplies and it starts to feel way too fast. It tries to cover a really broad field but loses a lot of depth at the end with one one-hour section per 500 page novel.
Great class, interesting material, not so much work. A real gem
Professor Gordon is amazing, and the class in general teaches you a lot about Europe. It allows you to understand how we got to where we are now. And he is just an amazing guy.
CB50 is great. Lectures are consistently engaging and thought-provoking and the required readings/viewings are, for the most part, remarkable. A lot of reading, but there are only 3 short papers to write all term (using only 3 of the materials), so take from that what you will.
Take this for an interesting and low-key gen ed. only 3 papers, but make sure you keep up with the reading for section
This is a great course for several reasons. For one, the perspective it gives you on modern Europe is incredibly valuable. But perhaps even more valuable is the literature and especially film that this class introduces you to. As someone who has always been involved with history and literature, but never had the chance to explore films in anything but a cursory manner, I gained a ton out of this course.
The readings or eat but the essays are graded harshly.
This class is truly wonderful, largely due to Professor Gordon and how deeply he cares about making this class worthwhile and informative. He's chosen a really great selection of books and movies for the course and his lectures are always fascinating. The only issue I had with this class was I had a bad TF, which made section wasteful and grading unreasonable, but hopefully the teaching staff will be different next time. This class really is worth taking.
You will read/watch some extraordinary works of literature/film. Take it for that reason, and not for the history component, which tends to be quite superficial, given the scope of the class. This being said, Gordon is very enthusiastic about the subject.
As long as you stay on top of the material (in particular, the books), the course is a breeze. Participate in section, and think early on about which books and films you want to write about!
Papers are basically close reads of whatever book or movie you choose to write about. Here's a helpful guide on how to do a close-reading that helped me get a good grade on my second paper: http://writingcenter.fas.harvard.edu/pages/how-do-close-reading. I feel more cultured after having taken this class, and I think it's a great way to fulfill a gen ed.
This class involves a large amount of reading and films. Be prepared to read thoroughly and completely in order to fully engage with the content of the course.
This course goes over very interesting material, and the books and films are great. The essays though are not historical at all and are more literary in style. A large portion of the grade was based on participation, students felt forced to contribute to discussions in section, leading to a lack of structure. Moreover, the material covered in lecture only goes very shallowly into each topic because there are so many of them that the course aims to cover. Overall, interesting course with great materials but lacking structure.
This class has a lot of content to cover, and it can quickly become the 4th class that gets pushed to last priority. You can get by if this happens because they papers are all close readings and there is no final, but then you'll get nothing out of the class. Prof is awesome and the stuff is really interesting though!
One of my favorite classes ever. You will leave this course a more sophisticated, artistic, and cultured human being, and is that not always a wonderful thing?
This course is fantastic.  At the risk of being the guy who watches Trainspotting and thus 'knows' what it's like to be a heroin addict, I would say that I know a LOT more about Europe.  I feel like I actually understand why a lot of things happen and have happened in Europe recently.  AND!  You get to read and watch a number of really fantastic pieces.  I highly highly highly recommend this course.  Yeah... you do have to write kind of a lot, but it's worth it!
Class is easy, figuring out how to get an A for a paper is not.
this class was way too ambitious in what it set out to do and didn't end up doing any part particularly well. the books and movies were interesting but didn't intersect with the history part very well. we learned about history in class and discussed books and movies in section, which fortified the rift between the two parts.
Professor Gordon is awesome.  He is a terrific lecturer and I feel I learned a lot from him.  However, many of the novels I felt were uninteresting, and the essay assignments not easy.  Overall, very good class and beneficial, just not a breeze.
The lectures were very interesting and were supplemented with great novels and movies.
This class is by far the best class I took this semester!  Professor Gordon and Sarah Shortall are both incredible teachers and kind, interesting people.  The novels and films I read in this class made me think deeply about many different issues and attending section each week was fascinating.  I would strongly recommend this class!
Requires discipline to keep up with all the readings and films, but a very interesting course overall.
You'll read a bunch of novels, some of which are enjoyable, and watch a bunch of films, most of which are worth watching. That said, the only educational part of the course is reading the large Tony Judt book each week, and your grade does not depend on it, so you won't unless you have incredible discipline. Also, the grading is super weighted toward those that can write literary interpretive essays--if you can't do that, your grade will meaningfully suffer.
Great readings, especially for the philsophically-minded. Great historical background, but don't expect to get too far into historical details - very big picture stuff, general themes, etc. Take it for the readings.
Take it! The films and novels are excellent!!!!!!!!!!
It all depends on your TF.  Gordon is a great lecturer and the lectures are very interesting, but the papers and the reading take a lot of time and sections are a waste of time, especially if your TF cannot give you useful feedback.
I would tell people that the real draw is the materials of the course.  The lectures were a bit underwhelming, and section was hit or miss.
Almost everyone has a reason to take this class. As citizens of a western world, learning its history and art since 1945 is very interesting and important. The lectures are fun and interesting and the course material is fantastic. Also as a gen-ed it is pretty low demand in terms of work and stress while also being very interesting. However, since it is a big lecture course it is a little less intimate and in-depth. Great class though, I'd take it again.
This course sounds great on paper, but unfortunately, from my experience, it didn't meet my expectations. Gordon is a great lecturer, but the course was too broad and the links between books, films, and history was at times too superficial. My section experience was also pretty bad, because my TF wasn't great at conducting dynamic conversations. Not a lot of work, but honestly, not a lot of payoff either.
An enjoyable survey class-but don't expect any kind of depth on the great course material! It really is a survey. Actually do the reading, including the Judt, and you'll get somethign from the class.
This course is great for fulfilling a Gen Ed requirement. I think the books and movies chosen for this course are very interesting and section discussions can be very fun. However, the lectures are fairly boring. Although Peter Gordon is a great person, his tone is monotonous and his lectures are sometimes pretty general. However, I think if you enjoy the subject and participate in section, the experience is still worthwhile.
Even though professor Gordon is fun and quite engaging, his lectures were basically a superficial repeat of the Judt chapter we had for the week. At times the themes discussed in lecture were completely unrelated to the novels or films. The course material is very relevant, but lectures are just a series of photographs and slides with little added to it. Section discussion was very good.
Great readings and films; sometimes it's hard to understand the major themes of the class or get a cohesive message out of lectures/readings/section. But it exposes you to a lot of great works that I otherwise wouldn't have read
This class is more of a history class than a study of postwar film and fiction. The lectures are pretty much summaries of the events that happened in post-war Europe, with some reference to the assigned films and novels at the end. If you are looking for an informative and interesting Post-war Europe history course, then take this class but if you are hoping for a class that is more of a study of the literature and film of that period, this might not be what you are looking for.
This course is fantastic! Peter Gordon is excellent, absolutely one of my favorite professors. His lectures are engaging and you can tell he has a lot of fun with the course material. While there's a lot of information covered in the class, the assignments are just three papers, which enable you to engage with the themes of the course and closely analyze the films and novels. I would highly, highly recommend this course as a great overview of postwar changes in European culture!
The professor is wonderful and sweet and his lectures are always great. There are notes online and only three essays to write, with no midterm or final, so this class is really not too hard. If you like art/literature and are good at analyzing it, you'll do fine! You don't need to be a history buff, although that helps.
This class has a great syllabus, but it's not well organized and you'll leave the course feeling like you should have done the reading on your own.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE TAKEN A LITERATURE OR VES FILM CLASS IN THE PAST TO BE SUCCESSFUL. They did not teach the techniques needed to write adequate papers........ they claim you could come from any background (history, political science, etc. ) and do fine but that is not true! ALL ABOUT analyzing LITERATURE even though lecture, the 1000 page text, and the sections are not. DO NOT TAKE THIS UNLESS YOU WANT TO ENGAGE IN LITERATURE, not history.
The readings and films are wonderful. However, the class has a heavy workload of reading, and the essays are pretty difficult with strict grading, so I do not recommend it as an elective. However, as a gen ed, it's a pretty good one that's pretty fun. Professor Gordon is kind of quirky and fun, but lectures, although interesting, aren't terribly integrated with the texts.
This is a wonderful course, and Carla is an incredible TF and section leaders. However, to get the most out of it you have to attend all the films and do all or most of the readings- and there is a lot of it, so something to take into account when you choose this is, especially as a gen-ed.
I cannot recommend this class highly enough. Peter Gordon is a wonderful lecturer - consistently well-prepared, entertaining, and enthusiastic about the material. He successfully fuses European history and aesthetics and furthers your understanding of both. Do not be turned off by the fact that the course requires a significant amount of reading and additional movie screenings. The novels and movies are wonderful and will actually be a pleasant break from your other course work.
Focus on the 3 essays and you'll be fine in the class. It is a lot of reading but manageable, especially since you ultimately only write about 3 works.
This is a very rewarding class, especially if you feel that you don't have a strong understanding of European history. You will get a lot of benefit from the lectures in terms of learning relevant historical background, and the lectures are also very enjoyable. Section was also interesting and enjoyable, but I don't feel that I actually gained much from it. There are only three short papers, so the workload is very manageable, but this also depends a lot on how much of the reading you do. OVERALL, I would definitely recommend this class. It has given me much more confidence regarding my knowledge of European history, and the way it bridges the gap between a history class and a and literature class is refreshing.
This is a great class with good lectures.  Be careful choosing your TF, they ultimately decide your grade.
There's a lot of reading which you don't necessarily have to do all of. If you're good at b-sing, you can breeze through this class. If you're not, too bad.
This class had no midterms or finals and had fun material that we should generally all be exposed to anyway. A pretty tame gen-ed. Except they expect you to do a ton of reading that you will never really do and section was really a waste of my life- just make sure you get a great TF and you will be fine.
peter gordon is amazing
Good, interesting class to fulfill a gen ed. The lectures only sort of relate to the section component or to assignments; thankfully the major reading is not required to be used at any point in the papers. Section was interesting, the papers were fairly easy, and the movies and readings were great. Good class.
You have to take this course at some point in your undergraduate career. Professor Gordon's lecture are, in general, very engaging and well-structured, and he integrates and synthesizes the historical with the cultural. But even the syllabus alone is a fantastic reason to enroll - the films and books we watched/read this semester have been some of my all-time favorites, and the historical context added another layer of depth. The workload is extremely reasonable. The essays are very short, and provided that you leave enough time to complete the readings, you can complete all of the coursework for the course in a very reasonable amount of time. But make sure to read the novels! You're only cheating yourself if you don't.
This is a great Culture and Belief for English concentrators (or other humanities concentrators)you can invest a lot or a little into this class. Gordon is an enthusiastic, funny lecturer, and the assignments are very reasonable.
You get what you put into it and it's very painless and enjoyable. The films were great. Don't slack off with the readings, because the books are very good.  Lectures are fascinating.
Postwar Europe is the bomb we get to watch movies.
This class is a seemingly intriguing mix of studying history through films and novels. However, the course is more a close reading on this content. History does not really have a prominent place in the course as far as grading. Lectures do not mix well with what you will be tested on. The majority of your grade comes from section participation which encourages students to raise their hands and non-substantive things. Your experience really depends on the quality of your TF.
This course does an incredible job examining the psychology of war, the impact of memory, and the fabrication of a country's history. Students should be prepared to put in the effort to read quite a bit each week, but most of the reading does not appear superfluous to the general themes of the course. Students should be comfortable analyzing literally themes, must enjoy doing so.
this course had great potential and super interesting material, but was poorly executed and a waste of a great class
there are probably geneds that are easy and less stupid
CB50 is a very enjoyable class, as its focus on culture really gives you a multifaceted taste of Europe over the past 60+ years. Though I can't say I enjoyed all of the texts (or necessarily got around to all of them), I see the value in each of them and am pretty blown away by the very careful design of this course. I especially liked how Gordon and the staff did not attempt to ascribe meaning to each and every text in the context of the political history of Europe. The movies and books could stand on their own as valuable works of art, which is essentially the message of the course. Gordon is a warm, funny, brilliant professor.
This course does not do justice to its syllabus. The reading and film lists are both great, but class never delves deeply enough into them for lecture to be worth attending.
This class honestly requires you to engage mainly with the films and novels that you write on, but you can get so much more by engaging with all the reading, especially the Judt. I definitely regret not delving into the works I wasn't explicitly writing on, and if you want to get the most out of European postwar, I'd recommend doing that.
You will read interesting books and watch fascinating movies. However, like most Gen Eds, not everyone puts effort into the class so sections can be quite painful.
This class tries to do too much as a history/literature course hybrid. Make sure you're aware of the implications of this (namely how annoying it is) before you enroll in the class. May not be worth the stress.
Good, easy gen-ed. Very gen-ed. Such gen-ed
If you have any interest in postwar film or literature, take this course. It does a great job covering major themes of the postwar. The lectures are entertaining and the course materials are amazing.
One of the most enjoyable classes I've taken at Harvard - good lectures and material that is significant, particularly when considered alongside the historical contexts through which they arose.
You could get by without paying attention to the lectures and only doing some of the readings, but I suspect that more controls will be put in place in the future.
If you need a Culture and Belief or Societies of the World class, take it. The professor is a truly excellent lecturer. The novels and films for the class are always interesting, even if you don't like all of them. The workload is fairly manageable most of the time, depending on how strict your section leader is about the Judt textbook readings. If you are fond of Europe, films, and literature in general, I highly recommend taking this course; I came out of it feeling like a possibly more sophisticated and certainly much more informed person.
This class is a very enjoyable way to fulfill CB/SW.  Even though Gordon is an engaging speaker his lectures were often too simplistic (high school level historical and literary analysis), but the syllabus is excellent and makes the course well worth taking.  Grading in my section was fairly tough [Carla was an AMAZING TF but a harder grader than many of the others from what I could gather].  I'm glad I took this class, but wish that Gordon had challenged us more in his presentation of the material.
If you like Europe, history, movies and great literature - TAKE IT!
The worst part about this class is the actual class time, but the materials were great.
Not too difficult and readings/movies are great. Professor Gordon is really engaging. Section can make or break the course, though, and I had a less than satisfactory section. So be wary.
This is a fine way to fulfill your Societies of the World gen ed requirement, although I believe there are much better Culture and Belief classes out there. In general, this is a very basic survey course of postwar European history. Peter Gordon is an interesting lecturer, but not much in this course was particularly revelatory. If you have time to read Tony Judt's "Postwar" over a break, you won't be missing much if you don't find time in your schedule to take this class.
Peter Gordon is a great lecturer and the subject matter is interesting, but the papers are focused more on literature whereas the lectures focus on history.
All of the novels and films for this class are simply excellent, and Professor Gordon is a good lecturer (although the lecture outlines sightly undermine the lecture experience because they cover everything he's going to say). I wish there were more (or any, really) assignments that required actual engagement with European history - that felt a bit lacking, as it is a history class and most of the lectures are solely about history.
This is a great course. Be expected to do a lot of reading and spending a lot of time outside of class trying to understand the material, but it is definitely worth it. The professor is amazing.
This class is really a great one--Professor Gordon delivers the lectures in a way that compresses a lot of information into a short period of time while still managing to make it interesting and entertaining. The subject matter is really fascinating and goes past simple historical review to incorporate books, movies, and other types of pop culture. Logistically, there are three 6-page papers due over the semester and no midterm exam or final (at least when I took it), but those papers really do need to be coherent and well-thought out.
CB50 is an excellent introduction to postwar Europe. That may seem like a narrow topic, but the full weight of what has taken place in the past half century on that continent is a microcosm for the development of civilization. Seriously. Also, read the Judt. The course should be more about what's in Judt than it occasionally is.
I got into the habit of skipping lecture...although you can get by, it meant I didn't get too much out of the course.
don't be intimidated by the reading list -- if you get Carla as a section leader, you'll have a blast discussing each text every week and seeing films in a new light!
The lectures are great, but the experience you get from the course depends highly upon your TF.
The films and novels for this class are spectacular, and if you learn some postwar European history along the way, all the better! Highly recommended. Attend lecture, and try to attend the screenings with the group--it makes for more interesting conversation come section. Also, if Carla's still TFing for the course, try to get her section; conversation was always energizing, and functioned at a much higher level than many other sections I've had.
This course is endlessly fascinating if you are into literature or film because the history is seen from the art produced during that period.
This course has a really wonderful reading list and film list and covers generally fascinating material. Prof. Gordon is an engaging lecturer who seems to genuinely care about students and teaching, which makes the class feel a bit warmer and friendlier than some. Some students seemed surprised that, although there were only three papers and no final or midterm, grading was harsh, but I never found it unfair in the slightestjust tough, but tough and honest. Carla was a wonderful TF! Definitely worth taking as a Gen Ed just for the syllabus.
Not what I thought a class about postwar Europe would be about, but interesting and the lectures are superb. Note that "Postwar Europe" means Europe's history from 1945, which was not entirely devoted to coming to terms with the events of the 1930's and 1940's.
This class is a straightforward way to fulfill a gened while also gaining a survey knowledge of a time period. Really fun delivery, I learned a lot.
There is a lot of reading.  One novel per week on top of regular reading assignments so a good amount of time is necessary to complete it.
This course is fascinating and very enjoyable! The novels and films are great, so it's very pleasurable homework, and the papers are very manageable. Professor Gordon is a very entertaining lecturer and I thoroughly enjoyed section and found that it was genuinely interesting and productive (pretty rare for sections in my opinion)- Josh is a great TF if you can get into his section.
It's easy to fall behind on the reading. As long as you keep up, you will get a lot out of this course. The TF you get will likely determine a lot of how you feel about this class. I was lucky enough to get a great TF; I know that not everyone who took the course this semester felt that way.
A lot of work but interesting topic. Hopefully it will put more stress on what the professor wants the students to take away from the course.
Overrated and oversubscribed course. No incentive to go to lecture and lectures can feel disconnected and irrelevant to the course. Readings and movies are excellent fare, but the amount of reading each week is daunting for a gen ed (100 pgs/week).
The films add a lot and make this gened much more enjoyable.
You feel like a much more cultured person after experiencing the Eurocentric modern perspective with Prof. Gordon. The details are up to you to consume, but the big picture and major movements and zeitgeists make you a more informed 21st century citizen. Bring enthusiasm! Be willing to read and see some art that makes you uncomfortable or that unsettles you. But I would never have discovered some of these delightful works on my own.
The lectures are very good. There is a lot of assigned reading, but you are only ever directly held accountable for three readings the entire semester. Participation in section is heavily weighted, however.
This is a fun and low key gen ed. I enjoyed the readings and films for the most part. It was hard to keep up with the films later in the semester because of conflicts with the screenings. Professor Gordon is great and I enjoyed getting a chance to discuss this period in history.
This isn't an easy Gen Ed, but it is interesting if you are willing to put in the time to do the readings and go to lecture.
The films and novels in this class were all very interesting and varied. Although there are three 6-page papers during the term, the real challenge is keeping up on reading. As far as instruction is concerned, Professor Gordon is an outstanding lecturer and his jokes are pretty good, too.
Great class that studies great material.
To do well in class, you need to put in a lot of time. You do a lot of readings and you're expected to go to film screenings and write three papers (which are pretty harddddd). That being said, the content is interesting.
This course was very interesting. The only part I didn't like is that the lectures were soooo focused on historical events whereas the sections and papers were close readings of the books/movies. So be careful not to focus on historical events on your papers if you want to do well in this class.
Great class with interesting material and low workload
If you love European film, definitely take it. If you love reading diverse literature, take it. If you love to talk about both in section, take it, but hope that the reading list is shortened to allow for more fruitful and in-depth analysis.
Great class that combines history with the aesthetics of literature and film. Professor Gordon is a really great lecturer and very accessible.
It's an incredibly interesting approach to history so that learning is never stale.
This is a course in which you have to be pretty self-motivated in order to keep up because it is possible to do it without reading everything or watching all the movies, but you won't get much out of it if you don't do all of the readings/screenings.
If you're looking to take this class as an easy gened, DON'T. This class is deceptive. Your grade is a function of three essays and section participation. Sounds good, but this makes the class 100% arbitrarily (and harshly!) graded. The course requires 7 novels and 9 films, but *technically* you only have to read 2 novels and watch 1 film for your three essays. But in reality, you will not be able to participate adequately in section without doing the readings and watching the films. (Although granted, the selected books and films are quite good.) For section you also have to skim Tony Judt's quasi-textbook which is literally the densest and most boring thing in the world. On the plus side, it's not necessary to go to lecture (despite it not being filmed) because section covers only the readings/films. Good thing because Gordon puts you to sleep. The last part of the course is also super politically correct, talking about issues like Muslim immigration in Europe, so beware of that. Overall I would definitely NOT recommend taking this course unless you are genuinely interested in the material and willing to put in the time and struggle to please your TF.
This course has great material and really enjoyable lectures. Professor Gordon is great. Cautions: you might find that the grading is too harsh for a GenEd, especially if you don't have experience in writing Hist&Lit type of essays.
Great lectures and course material. Keep in mind that there is a lot to read and discuss in a short amount of time and be sure to go to office hours to get the full experience.
Definitely do the text/novel readings and watch the films, and take basic notes on films as you go - it will make it a lot easier to think back on them when it comes time to write your papers.  Also, really try to bring a draft of your papers to your TFs because it'll help you a LOT.  But the texts and the course material are really really interesting, so this is a great gen-ed class!
Take if you want to be presented/engage with great works of literature and film, but be prepared for a not insignificant reading/viewing load. (Not to say that it isn't totally manageable!) Section can be great too (with a good TF) and may be dominated by jargon-dropping film theory concentrators but is still worthwhile. If you're interested in great stories in context, would recommend!
Do not take this class. It IS like every other gen ed; it is not meant to actually teach you anything, but to fulfill a requirement. I will add the disclaimer that there are many good things to be found in this course. The movies we watch during the course are excellent, and provide great experiences, and that Peter Gordon is a good teacher, but overall, it is just not worth enduring a semester of cynical TFs and students who are not interested in the material, only in grades. Take a departmental course instead.
take it if you want to do minimal work and get an ok grade and read some good stuff. they can actually be kind of tough graders. i didn't learn a whole lot, but i liked a couple of the books. they structure the class so if you don't read it's ok, which is impt with such an intense load for a gened. also, section was rough.
The best course I have taken this term. Great materials, both fiction and films. Professor Gordon was amazing, kept the lectures interesting and funny. Great music (including Coltrane, The Beatles or Sex Pistols)before every lecture.
This class exposes you to cool books/films you might not otherwise know about. Also, the fact that the class only requires 18 pages of writing for the entire semester (no exams/projects) is awesome, because it leaves you time to ACTUALLY do the readings/viewings and think about themI wish more Harvard classes (particularly humanities-focused ones) would adopt this rather European way of requiring less written production so that students can actually read/think rather than worry so much about what they'll produce.
Readings and films are great, lectures are lack luster.
Low-pressure, high-reward. Section discussions were the most engaging I've had in a gen ed here. Film screenings are fun. Readings are fairly heavy (though just skimming Judt can be profitable), but most of the novels are excellent. Odd but great not to be assessed specifically on the history.
Peter Gordon's lectures are extremely worthwhile and well organized. Unlike many other professors at Harvard, Gordon does not try too hard to impress. He naturally leads interesting, poignant lectures.
If you want to get something out of this class, then you will be putting in more time than you would for another gen ed due to the large amount of reading.  However, the films and novels are great and lecture is very engaging.
Professor Gordon is charming, intelligent, funny, and enthusiastic. That said, we went through so much material so quickly, that I don't feel I actually learned anything about history, film, or literature. The best part of this class is that it introduced me to a vast number of important films and novels, but I don't feel like I have anything but a cursory understanding of any of them. Also, the paper topics were vague, but the grading was fair in my opinion.
Background knowledge is absolutely necessary for this class.
Space your reading as best you can...its a lot! Go to lecture as you will learn a ton and be surprised by the trivia and concepts that Gordon disseminates.
This is a perfect course to take for humanities students who are excited about postwar literature and film and looking for a lighter class to take. The (mandatory) course load is relatively easyfilm screenings and a couple of novelsespecially if you're used to writing papers. The course is filled with great material, and Professor Gordon is fantastic.
No exam. Only 3 6-page papers. Easy grading. Nuff said.
The hype about this class is unwarranted. Sure, it has a great syllabus. Read the books and watch the films on your own time! Lectures were frustratingly simplified.
This is a really wonderful class and I really liked the way Professor Gordon presented lecture material. I also liked Adam as a TF, and sections were pretty engaging. I was personally interested in the material and it fulfilled a Gened as well. You don't directly get tested on the historical content, but definitely go to lecture, since the material is interesting.
Though the readings are interesting, there is nothing to gain from section.
Large amount of reading, focus time on what is discussed in lecture
don't expect a history course
The class is easy and "fun." Professor Gordon is adorable. Although, his lectures can be somewhat boring because he presents the material as if he were reading an essay...and had memorized it.
One of the best Gen Eds out there.  Gives you a cultural approach to history, which you won't get in other classes.  Will also help you catch up on all those great postwar European films your friends never want to watch with you.
Because there are very few assignments, it can be easy to slack off on the reading - make sure you stay on top of the readings, particularly the Judt, and this will make the class much more enriching.
Carla is the BEST. TF. EVER. and Professor Gordon makes lecture worth attending. Also, it's easy.
Take this course!  Peter Gordon is a baller.
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.  Peter Gordon is an amazing lecturer, and I felt like I learned a lot from his lectures and the historical readings.  I thought that the novels and films were also very well-chosen and I enjoyed them a lot.  The only thing is to be aware of the fact that this class does involve a lot more reading than most gen eds, and so only take it if you're willing to spend a lot of time on it.
This course is awesome. Peter Gordon is a great lecturer, and the wide variety of films and novels that are required reading are interesting and compelling.
An enjoyable but not deadeningly difficult course that is likely to improve over the years.
It's a fun class with great material.
If you have any interest at all in Europe, 20th-century history, film and/or literature, definitely take this class! Professor Gordon is a highly engaging lecturer with a wonderful sense of humor, and the material is diverse and refreshing. It's not difficult but still incredibly interesting, so equally good for those with a background in history/literature/film studies and those looking to fulfil a Gen Ed.
Great materials, with a lovely and dedicated teaching staff, and you will hardly find a Gen Ed with a greater ratio of stimulating work to busy work.
Readings and films are a great break from other classes, and if you pay attention to the feedback you receive from the TF's on your papers then you'll do well!
A great class for anyone to learn about the recent history of Europe by looking at awesome movies and books! And plus, Prof. Gordon is a blast.
This course allows you to engage with great films and literature that you usually would not encounter, and gives great insight in recent European history. All-round a great course.
Read what interests you, and don't miss the lectures, as they are awesome.
Fantastic course: TAKE IT!
This is an excellent class. Professor Gordon is intelligent and hilarious, the teaching staff is great, and the readings and films will feel less like homework and more like a break from your other work. That's not to say that they're easy--it's just that they're both intriguing and well-incorporated.
This class has one of the best syllabi I've encountered at Harvard -- each of the books and films was incredible, not only from a historical perspective but also as "aesthetic" objects. My only reservation in recommending this class is that the lecture is a little unpredictable -- at times, Professor Gordon offers brilliant insight, and at other times, lecture was more of a summary of the reading.
the class is well-paced and the lectures easy to follow and on interesting themes.  the professor makes the topics interesting
This was the first year the course was taught, so there are still a few bugs to work out - overall though it was very good. Section was great, and I loved having the chance to read books and watch movies that I never would have otherwise. Lecture bit off a little more than it could chew, but that will get fixed, and lecture was fun anyway - Peter Gordon is adorable.
This class was a very enjoyable way to fill the Gen Ed requirement.  The teaching staff says they do this class for fun, and it shows.  Although one of the great TFs will be gone next year, the course material is still very enjoyable.  Allow time to do the readings though!  The novels are all EXCELLENT, and you will thank yourself when you are finished.
professor gordon was great. very knowledgable and his lectures were interesting. the combination between history and the aesthetic was a nice combination, especially for a gen-ed. it was annoying to have to go to movie viewings outside of class but i enjoyed it more than reading the books.
It's not as easy it sounds. The grading is a bit harsh. Too much reading for a gen ed.
This is a good course if you have little or no knowledge of european history. The novels and films are very enjoyable and the papers are fairly straightforward. If you do have knowledge of european history, then this is a fairly relaxing and enjoyable course.
Take it for the reading list.
There's a lot of flexibility in how much you need to do for this class, but most of the readings are rewarding in and of themselves.
This course was incredible.  Professor Gordon is amazing.  The lectures were stimulating, as were the selected books and films.  Stay on top of your reading, as it could pile up, and actually do it.  You don't really NEED to read all the books/ see all the films, as the three essays are on only three of those, but you won't get the full effect of the course without doing the work.  Each book/ film adds an interesting new perspective on European history - the coursework is selected carefully.  Additionally, you need the reading/ viewing to participate well in section.
This was an incredible class!  Consistently informative and engaging.  I wish it could have gone on forever!
The material is wonderful, and you will be introduced to important to important authors and directors you might not otherwise encounter. I loved almost every book and film. The structure of the class and the teaching and lecturing were problematic. I think that because there were a lot of Freshman and its a gen-ed, students were not trusted to interpret the material on their own so much. There was too much hand-holding and watering-down.
The class offers a great overview of European history in a unique way--through interesting novels and films. However, it's a lot of material to cover in a short time and so the reading can be extensive. The lectures are engaging. The sections are very discussion based and driven largely by the students--there is very little information given by the TF's in terms of actually understanding each piece.
This is an interesting class, but beware of the papers - they are short , yet time consuming and difficult if you want to earn a decent grade.
The books and films are amazing, and the lectures are laid back. The textbook is good if you read it, though not crucial because PG covers a lot of similar material in lecture. Hopefully he will focus more on intellectual history and literature in the lectures--this year he focused primarily on social history, and it was a bit redundant with the readings. We also ended up spending too little time, relatively, on the books and films. For example, for the Joke, we spent 15 minutes discussing it in lecture and 15 minutes discussing it in section, and that was it--unless you chose to write your essay on it. But hopefully that will change.
Gordon is a great professor, and the class is completely painless.
Despite the fact that history makes up 90% of lecture, it counts for 0% of your grade. So.... figure out a way to be okay with that.
This was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. The lectures were engaging, the section discussion was always fantastic, and the teaching staff could not have been better. There was not that much graded work (3 papers), so section participation was important. Don't let the workload deceive you, though: I spent more time on work from this class than on any of my others - largely by choice - in spite of the fact that there were only three graded assignments.
If you enjoy studying and discussing in depth some of the greatest modern European literary and cinematic works, then you will enjoy this course.  You will gain nothing from it, however, if you don't seriously read and engage yourself with the texts.  Peter Gordon is a fantastic lecturer and extremely knowledgeable and approachable.  Take advantage of every resource offered you in this course, including the wonderful TF's and brilliant professor.
This class is well worth the effort you'll put into reading and film screenings.
Interesting Gen Ed course with great lectures. Demands a surprising amount for a gen ed, however, and background in the relevant history or authors is helpful.
Great class: nice prof, interesting subject matter. Shop it and take it if you find yourself interested.
As a student of books as autotelic forms of individual expression (i.e., a literature student), I was initially apprehensive of a class that would situate texts, both visual and literary, in a historical context. But I was quickly won over by the fact that this course did not presuppose significant knowledge either of historical fact or methodology  not that endless lecture time was spent educating a group half of which such discussion would probably have bored. Rather, through a hands-on approach at synthesising Tony Judt's historical overview "Postwar" with seven novels and seven films, in section and beautifully critiqued essays, the basics of an appropriate approach to the course were imparted. That this course taught me a new way to write essays and to read primary and secondary texts is undeniable and places it on a level with few other classes. Thus, although the class, objectively, did not provide an extreme challenge, it provided as much room for innovation and self-improvement as the student wanted--lying somewhere between the historical and literary approach, Professor Gordon's wittily led lectures charted a highly unique path that nevertheless encompassed far more discourses than I might have expected. Plus, we listened to the Beatles. Clearly, this class was GREAT!
The films are great-- and you are going to watching films that you wouldn't otherwise. Watching films is a great way to get a grasp of post-war culture. The Judt reading is a bit much, but more interesting than a bland text book. I didn't love all of the novels, either, and the papers are a bit difficult. The lectures are interesting though, and the requirements are not too strenous.. so a great way to fill a gen ed requirement and learn about European culture.
take this class if you enjoy history and aesthetic sources! so much fun!
This is not a history class. This is a class on good writing, good films, and on the intricate relations between people and nations that have shaped Europe and the rest of our world today.
Wonderful opportunity to read and watch a selection of important postwar books and films.
This is a great course with a great professor. Take it!!
Great books, great films, not too much work, perfect Gen Ed.
Professor Gordon is really awesome, you will read a bunch of really great books and watch a bunch of really great movies, the history readings are a bit excessive but a lot of the stuff gets covered in lecture so you don't really have to read it all all the time.
I would strongly recommend this course to everyone. It includes books/films that one really should have read and it allows you to think critically about the impact that the aesthetic has on informing historical knowledge.
Peter Gordon is amazing, the section was the best tf I've ever had, and you read books you should but generally didn't even know you should.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Gordon is an amazing lecturer, and the works that you watch/read will be some of those that stay with you forever. Take the class; you won't be sorry.
This class is great in that you use movies and books (and most of them are quite enjoyable) to learn more about history. Professor Gordon is a great lecturer - he knows everything there is to know on the subject and he's also pretty funny (example: his random use of cats in most lectures). The teaching staff on the whole is very committed to the students' learning, and this manifested itself in many ways; one thing they did that was very helpful was a series of seminars to help the class learn what was expected for our papers. It's not a terribly work-heavy class although the weekly assignments can definitely eat up your time; all in all a very enjoyable class!
Gordon is amazing. He's obviously in his field.
chill
Professor Gordon is amazing.
This was a really great class, one that I found myself truly sad about ending. Peter Gordon is a great professor. His lectures are always engaging, funny, insightful, and comprehensive. The books you read and films you watch, while a pain at times, are really, really cool. They were all the kind of thing that you get something more and different out of each time you analyze, watch or read them. Section discussions were interesting and help get the most out of material. A lot of reading, but if you're up for it, you won't regret taking this class.
A great way of learning history if you love art but don't know much about European politics (like me).  Also potentially a great way to learn about postwar European literature and film if you already know history.  Even if you know neither, Professor Gordon is a fantastic lecturer -- he has a penchant for slightly abstract philosophical perspectives on his subject matter, but he totally grounds the big ideas.
A great survey of alternative history of the second half of the 20th century
Professor Gordon takes great care in the subject matter, and he is more than willing to talk to students on an individual basis. Section was awesome, by far the best academic experience at Harvard that I have encountered. I would only take this course if you were more than fairly interested in the material because much of the required work isn't exactly required, so self-motivation is a key to getting the most out of the class.
This course was quite enjoyable to take and I learned a bit about European Postwar history, although the course was not as thorough as I had hoped. Additionally, the assignments fail to address the scope of the course in terms of content, thus leaving me to feel that I had learned a lot of superfluous information about the subject matter.
This is a fantastic course for those interested in cultural history.
Great class! Excellent materials and fair workload. Lectures are interesting and always entertaining. Fair gen ed and a great way to learn on a broad topic.
The professor was great but the TFs suck. Hard hard grading.
This is a nice class to take if you're interested in what happened in Europe after WWII, though if you really want to learn the history, you'll have to provide your own incentive. Workload is not difficult and readings and films are great, for the most part. (I tended to do the reading for this class as a form of procrastination for other classes!)
Fantastic readings and films -- a great excuse to take a look as some good fiction. Gordon is decent, prepares lectures well and takes it seriously, but kind of stilted (almost overprepared and therefore lacking a fluidity), but interesting.
This course provides a very manageable and often interesting look at the European postwar (which is  more depressing a time period than I initially anticipated!) If you are expecting a straight history course or a straight literature course you will get neither. The course attempts to blend the two, and in some cases is successful at elegantly doing so.
It's alright if you have a good TF.
CB 50 was definitely my favorite course from this semester. The material was amazing and Professor Gordon's teaching style made going to class a pleasure. The work load was manageable, which allowed you to enjoy understanding the history of Europe, rather than having to cram it all in at the last minute and stress over not having done the readings.
Sometimes the discussions, texts, and films were very deep and required abstract thought. This is not a bad thing, but if you don't enjoy deep talks about the fine details of a text, for instance, think carefully about this course.
Fantastic course, great films, great books, and Peter Gordon is fantastic.
This was an AWESOME class. The structure of novels and films anchored by solid political history was fun and educational. I grew in my ability to think about history, to think about literature, and to think about the ways they can inform each other. This year there were no tests, just three 6-page essays, which made the class fairly easy. Peter Gordon is a great lecturer and a great person, and the TFs were also really cool. If you want a Gordon intellectual history class, this isn't it (about 10 minutes throughout the entire semester are spent on intellectual history), but I would recommend it anyway.
There is quite a bit of reading but the material is very very interesting. The small amount of time we were able to devote to such interesting material could be frustrating at times, especially for someone who did not have any previous knowledge in postwar European history.
You must be quite interested in the topic to enroll in this class. Be prepared to do a lot of reading and stay on top of it, you don't have to but otherwise you feel like you're wasting such a time taking this course because you're barely evaluated on it.
lots of reading, but engaging novels. Judt's postwar is slow reading, so give yourself extra time for it.
This is a great class! Professor Gordon and the teaching staff are simply amazing, the topic is highly intriguing, the novels and films give a lot of food for thought!
