This is a great course, although probably not the easiest, CB course. If you are interested medicine, caregiving, or social reactions to traumatic events, this is a really interesting and well put together course.
The course content and readings are fantastic.  Some lectures leave something to be desired in terms of compelling narratives and student engagement.  There does not seem to be the same inspiring culture around the class compared to SW25, AI13, LS1a, CS50, etc.
Definitely a very interesting class that will change a lot of your understandings about disease. I think this course is a cross-section of so many field, including global/public health, biology, literature, etc. It is super super interesting but very time consuming. Though I have really learned a lot from this class and am really glad I took it.
It is a great class that will open your mind to be more observant to patterns and issues around you, so it is definitely worth taking. It is also a great course to take that bring multi disciplines together, and interesting to see how they affect each other.
Terrific C&B course--well organized and straightforward throughout with a committed teaching staff that is actively invested in the course. If you have interest in medicine, public health, or studying how we think about and treat disease, this course will be right up your alley. Assignments are perfectly do-able and there are no curveballs on the exams. Again, wonderful way to fulfill a gen-ed.
CB58 was a great class and sparked many thought-provoking discussions on the phenomena of stigma, caregiving, victim-blaming, epidemic response, and other societal/humanistic aspects of disease! I would highly recommend the course. The topic this year was epidemics, and we covered everything from older epidemics like plague and smallpox to current ones like TB, AIDS, SARS, and Ebola, as well as untraditional "epidemics" like heart disease and sexual assault. The course in future years will cover different material, but I'm sure the course will continue to be very engaging given the teaching staff. I would also recommend trying to get to know some of the professors -- they have very interesting perspectives and it's cool to be able to read some of their work as part of the class. The class is also not very time-consuming at all -- don't be scared by the 3 papers, midterm, and final! It was very manageable and exams were straightforward. I really enjoyed the class!
It gives very interesting information about disease and human behavior.
The course material is incredibly fascinating and requires no background knowledge in medicine or science. We receive different texts every week to read, and the coursework is definitely manageable given how helpful the TFs are with papers.
This is a very interesting course, particularly for students with an interest in medicine and public health. It is very accessible to students who do not study humanities yet engages with the works studied in a meaningfully way. I loved all the course materials- I found almost every single reading, poem, documentary etc to be interesting. While the content of the lectures is interesting, I unfortunately found it difficult to go to lecture: perhaps because the 2 hour block was too long, the energy was low, pace was too slow, or some combination of the three. To be honest, I found the readings and lectures to be a little redundant- redundant enough that I felt comfortable not going to lecture if I did all the readings. I wish the lectures added/built upon on the readings to a greater extent. Overall however, the course was enjoyable and very manageable.
This class is amazing! It was one of the most interesting classes I took all semester. We focused on epidemics, but they may change the focus next time they offer it (I know last time they focused on death and dying). Definitely go to lecture and pay attention and do the readings so that you're prepared for the midterm and final. Do the readings each week instead of leaving them until the end and the exams won't be hard. You just need to spend time memorizing text titles and authors, which isn't too bad, for the identification sections on the exams. For the essays, definitely meet with your TF and discuss your ideas with them, you'll do much better on each assignment. And participate in section! You get a participation grade and that's the best way to boost it up.
I took this course as a Gen-Ed.  The workload is high.  Lots of obscure readings, 3 papers of varying length (600-750 words, 1500-2000 words, and 2400-3000 words) a midterm, and a final exam (during exam period).  This is primarily a literature class.  Little to no actual science is involved.  Although lecture is only once a week, the two hour lecture feels really long.  If you are looking for an easy Gen-Ed, this is NOT the course for you.  If you are honestly interested in the material and you like writing essays, this may be the course for you.  As a Physics concentrator I was very bored in this class, and the workload was unwelcome.  If you want an easy C&B, go for Hebrew Bible instead.
This is a class full of pre-meds fulfilling their Gen-Ed requirements, though professors are experts in their field. I don't recommend to take on top of similar courses (USW13 or SW25).
The professors are really dedicated to teaching this class!
The readings are definitely interesting however the lectures are long and sometimes drag on. There is not a lot of structure to the class however the workload is not terrible.
If you already like the humanities, this class is for you. If you are a scientist, be prepared to adjust, but still enjoy the class.
Not a ton of work if you space it out and look at the important readings
This class is great for anyone thinking about the History of Science concentration.  I was thinking about the concentration, and, after taking this class, my passion for the subject has increased exponentially.  Try to engage with the readings as the course goes along--it makes for a much more fulfilling semester.  Up until the midterm I did not engage with the material as thoroughly as I would have liked, and doing so during the second half of the semester therefore proved much more satisfying and interesting.
This is a very interesting course that I would highly recommend. Professor Jones is an incredible lecturer, and Professor Kleinman has a unique perspective on issues in medicine. I also greatly enjoyed the literature that we read for class.
Really enjoyed this class. The lectures were boring at times but the readings definitely made up for it. A lot of the pieces/books we read were also written by some of the professors of the class, who by the way THEY ARE AMAZING. Section was sometimes unhelpful because it was just a summary of the readings.
The class was quite interesting and exposed me to some fascinating literature. The essays (3 scattered throughout the semester) are fair and the staff gives plenty of feedback. The midterm was quite rushed with 2 essays and multiple IDs within a one hour time frame. The teaching staff seems quite receptive to feedback and are very willing to meet for OHs. Do try to meet with them, they are very insightful and interesting to speak to! However, this iteration of the class apparently is very different from before, so do check the syllabus for changes and shop the class before committing.
Worth taking if you want a more sociological or literary perspective on medical issues, focusing on how societal structures change the experience of disease, and how people try to understand diseases by ascribing meanings and narratives to them. More reading than the average Gen Ed course - the typical week included a few articles and a long excerpt from a novel - but the readings are interesting. The professors and topic change every time the course is offered, so treat the comments here with a grain of salt.
Definitely make use of the professors' and TFs' office hours! I wasn't able too that much this year because of a class conflict, but they are truly excited about discussing the course material and it shines through when they talk about it. If I could do the course over, I would've spent more time talking with the instructors rather than muddling through some of the readings and assignments on my own.
This course was honestly amazing. It really dug deep into the emotional responses people had to different epidemics throughout history, and we looked at several different cultures and several different times and settings in our analysis. By focusing on big themes such as stigma, suffering, care giving, etc, the class was really able to tie all of the epidemics together, and a pattern was clearly seen. This class taught how to feel empathy, and it honestly made me think a lot deeper about what it means to be human and what it means to suffer from disease. Take this course!! It also counts as a writing/english course if you are pre-med! And the TFs are wonderful, as are the professors. You can tell they really care about the course.
THIS IS AN AMAZING CLASS.  But don't stay for Thornber's lecture, it's kind of a waste of time.
This is a really interesting and great course. Professor Jones is an excellent, engaging lecturer. Unfortunately the others are not quite as engaging.
For a gened, it's graded in a quite difficult manner and there's a lot of work compared to other geneds.
CB58 is a really great course if you're interested in thinking about medicine and health from a different perspective and it was really great to have professors from different disciplines interacting to give a more complete understanding of epidemics. Definitely a great course for CB and also just as an elective; it's not a ton of work and the material is interesting when you put in the effort.
Do all the readings and make sure to be aware of the larger themes discussed in lecture.
One of the few courses I've taken that actually lives up to the "general education" label. I enjoyed lectures.
You must be prepared to actually do most of the readings and engage in section discussions. The assignments, particularly the midterm and final examination, really demand that you are familiar with most of the course content so don't take this class if you don't expect to invest any time into it!
I had so much hope for this class because the material is so cool but it was extraordinarily boring and was so much reading... it has three papers and a midterm and a final, by the way. Could be a really great class with some effort but it's just boring because there's too much material to go in depth in any way and it's lecture based instead of discussion.
To take it if you're interested in pre-med but don't rule it out even if your not. Care giving is a valuable tool to anyone and you can learn a lot from analyzing epidemics. However this course does apply to the medical field specifically and so for pre-meds I would so that it's a must.
Definitely take this course, especially if Alice is still a TF. Get her because she's amazing. If you're at all interested in medicine, this gives you such a large amount of insight into human illness, suffering, and the entire spectrum of disease. If you want work in any sector of health, it'll help shape intellectual perspective in the long run as it views medicine from so many different angles. It shows the difficulties associated at the institutional level, and provides a look into disease experience at the individual level. Not a lot of work at all either. Three paper, a midterm and a final, and the final paper is also such an opportunity for you to explore something your interested in and was one of my favorite parts of the course. Incredible Gen-Ed that is truly interdisciplinary--everyone should take a medical humanities course at some point if they plan to work in medicine!
This is a very interesting class. You have to do all the reading to be successful, but it is pretty engaging and not too hard to catch up if you fall behind. Would recommend for the CB requirement.
I loved, loved, loved this class. It was incredibly interesting, made me think about the topic in entirely new ways, and the interdisciplinary set up was fascinating. This is one of the best classes I've taken here (and I'm a senior, so I've got a lot to compare to). Prof. Jones in particular  is an excellent lecturer, but a number of the lectures in this class seemed almost like works of art in and of themselves. I found some topics more engaging than others, but even the sections I enjoyed less were still great. Section was also incredibly interesting and engaging and made me think in ways sections do not normally (Austin is great). Take this class.
Great class; I loved that multiple different fields of study were incorporated to understand death; the teaching staff is excellent and very talented; would highly recommend the course
This course is not very well structured, so be ready for that. Additionally, make sure to have a good system for taking notes in this class. Most of the things taught are very vague so notes are tough to take for the course.
I think pretty much all premeds should take a class like this or literature and medicine--necessary to make you aware of the human side of medicine--really interesting exposure to a lot of different kinds of humanities, good readings and discussions
This course is a great lens into your own life. I would recommend it strongly. You won't regret it.
lots of work, depressing but cool to study different media
This course was definitely very interesting and not too difficult, but I don't feel like I got as much out of it as I would have liked. I loved many of the professors' lectures and some of the papers were actually a lot of fun to write. However, some of the units felt very disconnected from the rest of the course (a danger of an "interdisciplinary course"). Overall, I thought this was a painless way to fulfill the C&B gened, and overall a great introduction for me to some fields of the humanities that I had not previously studied.
If you're not genuinely interested by the course description, don't take it.
This class was one of my favorites. All of the professors are very knowledgeable and the Q&A session at the end of each lecture is great. This class is not just for pre-meds.
CB 58 was great--it was a wonderful introduction to various perspectives in the humanities that are very pertinent to our understanding of medicine.  It moves at a fast pace and there is a lot of material, but if you're interested in the topic at hand, then the work is very fulfilling!
Great survey course in medical humanities. I would definitely recommend for science concentrators planning on going into medicine.
Take this class if you want a foray into multiple different disciplines at Harvard with the best professors in those fields.
If you're looking for an interesting gen-ed with a light workload, this is a great one (especially if you're premed). I think in future years it will be focused on something other than death and dying (this year's focus), so it may even be less depressing. Great lecturers.
Don't nitpick about the minutiae of the course readings; rather, focus on the thematic content of the lectures after you've done the readings in order to figure out what the professors want you to learn from the readings. You'll get more out of the course if you understand the main concepts and themes (e.g. caregiving and presence) rather than just knowing the exact number of pages in the Tale of Genji or the names of the opera singers who premiered Mozart's Don Giovanni. Of course, it's important to know specific examples that illustrate the course's themes, but don't lose sight of the forest by staring at a single tree.
Great special course that is the epitome of what Harvard has to offer. Great scholars getting students to think about important questions that inform a world view.
This course was one of the most rewarding Gen-Eds I have ever taken at Harvard. Exploring death through cultural, anthropological, art, literature and historical lenses provided me with a unique and deep understanding of the topic in the context of the medical humanities. Important education for any individual (doctors included!) who want to connect on a more empathetic level with other people.
first year they were really open to feedback- great professors!
This is a fantastic course, especially for premeds who love the humanities! Even if you're not interested in pursuing a career in medicine, this is a great course to get a wide flavor of many different humanities disciplines. The professors and lectures are incredible, and because you explore the topic through a variety of lenses, you get a varied perspective and are never bored. The readings are not overwhelming and are truly interesting. Also, you get some creative assignments which make the work really fun! For me personally, this class, with its focus on death and dying (note that the topic will be changing), really helped me put more perspective on my own life, and I am so glad I took this course.
