It's a wonderful class.  Professor Coleman is incredibly enthusiastic, knowledgeable, and dedicated, and she also has a great sense of humor.  The material covered is also fascinating.
It is the perfect overview of the Classics concentration. The trips to the museum are excellent. The teacher is very knowledgeable and caring.
Professor Coleman is a really engaging and knowledgable instructor. The material is also naturally interesting. Together they make for a very good course.
This class is a valuable introduction to the basics of Roman history.
Professor Coleman's enthusiasm for this class makes it worth taking.  It's a great introduction to Roman history and culture.
Even if you have years of reading about Roman history and culture under your belt (as I did), the depth and resources you get exposed to make this definitely a great class to take (and it's not too hard). So if Professor Coleman is teaching it again, jump at the chance!
there are weekly quizzes but the only books you really need to read are Boatwright and Livy
This class provides a great overview of Roman history. In most classes, only certain time periods in Roman history are covered.
This class is better-designed and more thoughtfully instructed than most courses at Harvard, and Professor Coleman (I'd only take this course from her) is a wonderful instructor. Classicists with particularly strong backgrounds may find themselves mildly frustrated, especially toward the beginning of the course, but don't worry, it turns out to be well worth it. The frequent integration of Harvard's vast collection of antiquities is a particular positive. If the course is pitched to even a slightly higher level in the future, it will be perfect.
This is a great class! Just do the work you're required to do, get to know Prof. Coleman and the TFs, and enjoy the crazy ride that is Roman history.
Professor Coleman is amazing. She truly cares about her students and tries to help every step of the way with any problems, and puts a painstaking amount of work for them and the class. She is an amazing lecturer and an invaluable resource.
This was by far one of my favorite courses at Harvard. Professor Coleman and the TFs were outstanding.
Lectures are amazing and you get to see really cool, Rome centric aspects of Harvard's campus.
Professor Coleman is fantastic!
The best class I've taken at Harvard. If you want to know what it was actually like in ancient Rome, and want to learn about how classical scholarship works - and are interested enough to not mind doing the reading - then take this class!
This is a great class taught be a wonderful professor who is truly devoted to her students. If you want a lecture class that you can just attend and tune out during, then this is not for you. If, however, you value establishing relationships with faculty, this class will give you ample opportunities to make meaningful connections with both Professor Coleman and the amazing teaching staff. In addition, the rotating material culture sections are unheard of in other courses. You'll get the chance to look at coins, maps, bricks tamps, papyri, and other ancient artifacts in small groups.
Just a hardworking mindset. Be prepared to memorize minutia if you care about the A.
It is good to take this course early in your collegiate career.  It is designed to teach you about many research tools and conventions that you will otherwise end up figuring out yourself the hard way over several semesters of study.  Taking this early will save you a lot of trouble, and taking it late will mean that you are covering many things you already know.
Coleman's a G.
An excellent course that I greatly enjoyed.  I highly recommend it.  Great readings and a great professor.
Appearances are deceiving.  You will learn stuff in this course--but you certainly won't feel like you have a good picture of the "important stuff" of Roman history and civilization.  Also, be ready to have to meet atmospheric expectations with the final paper.  You will receive unparalleled support, which is awesome, but that means that you really have to deliver.
This is a very fascinating course and Professor Coleman is excellent and very passionate about this topic. The course load isn't heavy, you just need to study lecture notes for the weekly quizzes (which are not hard at all and are a good way to boost your grade). I would definitely recommend it even as just an elective!
Start the research paper early. Don't let the relative ease of the first half of the course lull you into complacency.
Prof. Coleman is one of the best professors in this fine institution, and no one should graduate from Harvard without an appreciation for this era of Western history.
Great introductory course to the ancient Romans.  I came in knowing very little, and left knowing so much about the ancient Romans up until Constantinople. The reading is a little much, but as long as you read the main text (it was Boatwright this year) you will be fine. I can say as a fact that I didn't really read the Livy and Tacitus and I did fine. Pay attention in lecture--that's what you're expected to know for exams and quizzes, which are really straight forward.  Definitely a wonderful course.
This course is amazing and perfect for exploring the civilization and culture of the Romans. It is not only extremely interesting, but the grading and assessments are fair and reasonable and the opportunity to work with ancient artifacts under such knowledgeable and encouraging teachers is something I value greatly. Even if you are not concentrating or doing a secondary in Classics, you will love this course and professor!
Professor Coleman is great and having her as a professor is quite the experience.  But you have to put in the work (read and study for the weekly quizzes)
Be warned: very, very elementary introduction to Roman History and civilization.
Stay on top of the assignments, it will pay off in the end.
If you're taking this course, it's probably because you have to! You're in luck -- the lectures and readings are engaging, and you will receive a nice introduction to virtually all aspects of Roman history (political, cultural, material, intellectual, etc.). The most common complaint you will hear (and one which I share) is that the course could be more difficult: the course could include both more facts and more thematic and theoretical analysis of Roman history. It occasionally seems more like an AP course than a tutorial for Harvard students. BUT, it's still a lot of fun and very interesting. I'd even recommend it for non-majors who are interested in a fun, not terribly challenging introduction to Roman history.
Great course. Professor Coleman is great and pretty funny at times. The tfs were great. They're all willing to help you outside of office hours, if you can't make the regular ones. Great staff! There's a lot of reading, but it's most important to stay on top of the textbook. The weakly quizzes that cover the "bare bones of the material?" Study!!! Also, make sure to study the primary sources before the midterm/final. Ask for help finding sources for your paper if you need it. Professor Coleman knows a source or two for just about anything and that'll help get you started.
I would definitely recommend this class to classics concentrators/secondaries, provided that they know what they're getting into.  The response papers are graded much more harshly than you might expect, and they require a lot of time and energy to get right.  But that being said, Professor Coleman is fantastic, and you can tell that she really loves the course material.
Don't concentrate in classics, just do a secondary field and you'll only have to take 97a and not this class. 97b was the worst; I hated it. But if you must take this course, make sure you don't get Erika to grade your papers. it is not fair at all and Coleman is blind to the subjectivity in the grading completely.
This course is great. Always come to class focused and prepared to learn a lot in 53 minutes. The assignments are very fair and reasonable, but they expect you to go beyond your gut instinct. What will probably help you succeed in this course above all else is to get to know the Professor and TFs early on, and engage with them frequently, especially when it comes time to write the final paper.
A great introduction to Roman civilization, few courses at Harvard have been as well taught or exciting as this one.
Put a lot of work into the response papers. They may seem like a trivial part of the course, but they are your main preparation for the final paper. Also, begin your final paper far ahead of time and consult with Professor Coleman and the TFs about your ideas for it. The paper is the capstone and most difficult part of the course; take it seriously and work hard on it.
This class was an enjoyable and gave me a superficial understanding of the Roman world. Prof. Coleman and the TFs were really great and tried to make the material as exciting as possible. The class covers not only history but also provides a social context.
It's a good amount of work--you need to do the readings very thoroughly, so if you are not prepared to put the time in, don't take it.
This is a great class, but there is a huge amount of material so be prepared to spend a lot of time on it.
I loved this class, although the organization was at times a little overwhelming. Professor Coleman is a genius and generates so much enthusiasm for the course material. She is so friendly and is delighted when she sees that her students are as excited about the material as she is. Roman history is so interesting from its origins to its end. The weekly quizzes are totally fair and ensure that you keep up with the material--just study and you'll do well on those. The response papers were tricky since you had a set word limit and you had to analyze material that were packed with detail. The midterm and final are fair so make sure you prepare. Also, although the material is not that difficult, it is hard to do well. Grading was harsh, which makes sense since the teaching staff is so knowledgeable about Rome. Excellent course overall and Professor Coleman is brilliant.
I know it's a requirement for the Classics concentration but it's also a really good class. Personally, I think Professor Coleman is one of the best professors in the department so perhaps I'm a bit biased. Regardless, the pace is very reasonable and what she expects you to have to memorize is also very doable. Just a solid class overall!
It is a lovely course that gives you a good overview of Roman history as well as introduces you to the numerous resources we have on campus.
Professor Coleman is a great lecturer, she generates so much enthusiasm and is so incredibly knowledgeable. This class is not necessarily difficult, but there is a lot of reading and material to keep up with, especially since there are weekly quizzes. However, as long as you pay attention and take good notes in class, the weekly quizzes are very straightforward and more tedious than anything else. Professor Coleman's lectures perfectly complement textbook reading and makes reading the book much less overwhelming. There are many other assigned readings for social history, etc. but even if you don't do them all you will be fine. The research paper at the end of this class at first seems daunting but if you plan ahead (which you have no choice but to do because you will be asked to hand in an outline) and go to office hours, it is actually not that bad and if you are interested in your topic can actually be fun. Grading in this course is generally fair, there are not many surprises and it is easy to do better as the course progresses and you figure out what Prof. Coleman and the TFs are looking for. Overall, good class, a lot of interesting history, and not too stressful as long as you stay on top of things.
This class was not a difficult way to fill a concentration requirement, and Professor Coleman is very enthusiastic about the course. However, there is a substantial amount of reading (a lot of which ended up being irrelevant to the material we were being tested on). The grading, although constructive, was also very difficult. Professor Coleman is very accessible and is eager to help with any struggling.
This class will teach you SO MUCH about the Romans.  If you love learning about other cultures, the Romans was arguably the greatest civilization that had ever existed.  Yet, the Romans were simultaneously one of the most brutal - think the Roman crucifixion of Jesus was brutal?  Imagine thousands of slaves crucified along the Via Appian.  Learn why amphoras have a neck (for carrying over shoulders), why Roman javelins break when thrown (so the enemies couldn't throw them back), and how badly the Romans trounced the Carthaginians (talk about thorough!).If learning what being a woman was like in the Roman times, what being a slave was like in Roman times, what a restaurant looked like in Roman times (it looked very similar to ours), what the Romans ate, their dining habits, etc., interests you, then prepare to be completely immersed in a glorious ancient culture.
It was fun and also essential for Classics to get down the basic timeline of Roman history. There are simple weekly quizzes. The response papers are a certain, maybe unfamiliar kind of response paper expected to be very concise and yet all-encompassing--suggested even to be prepared with an outline! The midterm and final exam are nicely straightforward and give you the opportunity to write.
Excellent survey course of Roman history! Because you're covering so long a time period, you cannot go into too much depth, but you get a nice mixture of basic chronology and social themes.
This class is not a good class, and I would not recommend it. While the material is very easy and accessible, even for someone with no prior background, the class is made extremely difficult by unreasonable grading and assignments. The professor and TFs are absolutely no help in understanding where you went wrong on assignments (in particular, the essays), they give you no idea whatsoever of how to improve for future assignments, and they often contradict each other on feedback. They are looking for something very specific, a very particular way of answering the question, and if they don't see it, your grade suffers tremendously even if the essay is a solid essay. I found myself trying to learn how to fit into the system rather than focusing on learning the material (i.e., how specifically to answer questions in assignments rather than actually looking at the material). Overall, it seemed that the only way students could do well in the course was if they had taken a classics course before, which is ironic because this is supposed to be an introductory class (and even a Gen Ed). I was planning on either getting a classics primary or secondary concentration, but after this class I no longer plan to do so because of how discouraging and frustrating it was.
Keep up with the reading and take care writing the papers.
The history of Rome is too much to cover in one semester. Take it because you have to, and bond with other concentrators in the process.
This class is very interesting.  Professor Coleman is a wonderful teacher, and the primary readings are very interesting.  The secondary readings are not particularly compelling, but overall the class is quite good.
This class is anomaly in an otherwise first-class department. This is not really a Roman history class but an introduction to ancient Roman studies. This is good if you're interested in the social/material aspects of history and limiting if you lean toward the big picture and history.
This course is not necessarily easy, as the response papers are graded slightly difficultly. The quizzes and tests were fair. This course is a very good introduction to Roman culture and history that any Classics major should take before they move on to upper level courses (definitely take htis course if you are a sophomore- there were a lot of juniors and seniors in this class that probably did not get as much out of it compared to if they had taken this sophomore tutorial when they were actually sophomores). Professor Coleman is an expert on basically anything to do with ancient Rome and makes lectures interesting with her sarcastic sense of humor and her knowledge. I definitely recommend this course to any sophomore Classics concentrator, or anyone that is ready for a fast paced tour of Roman history.
I have always dreaded that point in my Classical education when I would have to learn the details of the Punic Wars... this class made it painless.
It was great class. Difficult but you come out with a very deep and thorough knowledge of Roman history.
The course is great for a general view of Roman history, but a more focused class on a particular theme or period might be more enjoyable if one is looking for an elective
Very demanding, but fair class. Professor Coleman is one of the best, although she is one of the toughest too.
Professor Coleman is fascinating and makes Roman history really interesting.
A great introduction to Roman history and culture, Professor Coleman is amazing. It seems a bit rushed sometimes though!
Whether or not you enter this course knowing everything or nothing at all about Rome, it is more than a good use of your time.
Take this class quickly if you are considering becoming a classics concentrator or secondary.  I was considering a secondary but decided against it from this class.  It was an excellent class, and I enjoyed it; I just realized that this was not the sort of work I would want to be doing the rest of my life.
The class will give you a solid foundation in all things Roman and quite a bit of expertise on some select things, particularly the topic you select for your final research paper, with which the professor will be more than willing to assist you in depth.
excellent class in Roman history and culture, with fantastic professor
The best class I've ever taken - fun, interesting, fantastic teacher...amazing
If you just want to "learn about Rome" and not specific eras or specific emperors, this is perfect. It is exactly the course that should start off a classics concentration (or not, it's also a great survey course).
The class was very difficult, and both Professor Tipping and Duncan demand very high standards of achievement, but I am very happy with what I learned in the class.
The professor and TF were amazing, and we covered a lot of interesting readings.  As opposed to other Latin courses, you get to study a lot of things in breadth.  So, this might be a good class to take early in order to figure out what classes might interest you later.
Keep up on the reading and you will be successful.
as taught by professor tipping, this course provides an interesting way of looking at roman history. the readings are great. not a demanding course on a day to day basis, but you end up learning a lot regardless.
The course is mandatory for Classics Concentrators. I felt lucky to have taken it with Professor Tipping, but the topic itself is so interesting that I'm sure any professor would be fine.
This class was one of the stronger overall classes I've taken at Harvard
This class is relaxed but you learn a lot as long as you keep up with your readings and pay attention in class.
I would recommend it so long as the focus on exemplam, while interesting, is modified.
A great class for students interested in Classical studies who don't know Latin or Greek, or have no previous exposure to the field. Not so great for Classics concentrators, though still quite good
As a non-Classics concentrator, I was quite satisfied with the course--you certainly learn a ton of information. The class is truly comprehensive, covering Roman history from 753 BC to 395 AD, and succeeds in covering that much time in a way that didn't feel too rushed. The research paper was a great opportunity to explore a topic I was interested in in-depth.One thing I would mention, though, is that there is a very high volume/number of assignments in this course. Towards the end of the course, there was a flurry of quizzes, assignments related to the paper, section assignments, and sometimes 3 sets of readings per week. I felt that that volume wasn't particularly helpful.
Watch out - definitely take it pass fail if you can
Really great intro to Roman history. Prof. Coleman will probably come back to teach it in the future. I thought Yvona was awesome!
This is a great intro to Roman history, and I would highly recommend if you have no experience in that field. It dabbles in a little bit of everything
This is a wonderful class! As long as you stay on top of the readings and consult your TF as needed, you will greatly enjoy this class.
If you're deciding between this and 97a because you don't have to take both, take 97a.
This is a great class that gives you a comprehensive introduction to ancient Roman history.
