This course is structured around controversies in the scholarship of Ancient Greek culture and civilization, and is thus not really purely an introductory course. I would not recommend this to someone looking for a basic overview of Greek history, per se. However, it brought up many interesting controversies, and I feel like I learned a great deal. It simply wasn't exactly what I expected.
Poorly organized, does not give a good introduction to Greek history and culture.
as a required course for classicists, it is nevertheless a solid course.  this response doesn't really matter because professor hunt will not be here next year.
It's an easy introduction to Greek history and culture, but not otherwise very enjoyable
Do the readings on time, before each lecture. It helps a lot.
If you do not want the magic of Greek history to be murdered for you, please don't take this class.
This is a good survey of classical Greek history. There's a lot of reading, but it's good reading, and you come out of it feeling that you have seen and learned a lot of important things and that you have reference points for future inquiry.
It has great potential, but the success of the course will be dependent on the teacher.
That it is relatively interesting.
This year, it was worth taking mostly just as a concentration requirement.
Irrelevant, since the professor is not returning.
Take this course if you want a thorough overview of most of Greek history. The lectures are fascinating (Kosmin is a great lecturer!!), the readings are enlightening (if extensive), and the sections are usually enjoyable. Be prepared to read a lot, and learn a lot of supplementary material on your own time.
This class is probably one of the best history courses you will ever take.  Coverage of material is thorough, and even if you have already had some Greek history, you are almost guaranteed to learn something new in every lecture.  Kosmin is a truly great lecturer, and although he can initially be a bit intimidating in person, he is an incredibly kind human being, and always willing to share information with the interested student.  I recommend going to his office hours if possible.  This is not always possible--I unfortunately had classes during his regularly scheduled office hours--but he is very prompt and informative when contacted by e-mail and also very willing to schedule meetings outside his office hours.  This course is one of the few that I have ever recommended without any sort of qualification: it is rigorous without giving you a crippling workload, two things that don't always go hand-in-hand here (*cough cough* Physics 16 *cough cough*), the teaching staff are excellent, and the subject matter is one of the most exciting, romantic stories in Western history--the rise and fall of the Greeks.  Take this course.
This class is a whirlwind of an in-depth tour of ancient Greece.
Professor Kosmin is a brilliant lecturer, and if you have any interest in concentrating in Classics, take this course!
This class puts all the piecemeal information you've heard about Greek history into one concise narrative, with an Eastern perspective that's missing in traditional stories.  Professor Kosmin understands the subject like no other.  If you read the readings and study you WILL stay ahead in class.  One of my favorites at Harvard.
Kosmin is a great lecturer and so knowledgeable. Be prepared for carpal tunnel. The outside primary and secondary readings are only important for the one section in which they're discussed. The essays are difficult (though they can take some time). The most annoying thing was having a final project, essay, and exam. But still manageable. Take this class.
Take this course, since Greek history is fascinating, plus Prof. Kosmin presents it super well.
If you are interested in Greek history, this will be your favorite class.
Really great class. You learn a lot about Greek history and also why it is important to study in the modern day. Kosmin is a great lecturer and very engaging.
Take this class! Professor Kosmin is an excellent lecturer and a delightful person.  He is arrestingly intelligent, but also extremely kind and sympathetic.
This class is a great overview of classical greek history but professor kosmin puts a fresh spin on everything that makes the content original even if you've been exposed to it before.
I think lectures work well with the readings and assignments, and I like that the class builds of each successive lecture, because it's history-based and events of the former generally affect the events of the next iteration, etc.
DO NOT TAKE THIS UNLESS YOU ABSOLUTELY CANNOT ESCAPE IT.
think that ancient Greece was just about Athens and Sparta?  Think again.  Expand your horizons at the influence of pre-Greek civilizations, the Greek dark ages, Ionian Greeks, hellenistic kingdoms, Bactria.  Blow away your friends with cool facts (e.g. "traditional" Indian depictions of the Buddha are heavily influenced by Greek statuary, Alexander the Great was devoted to his male lover and horse)
Take this class. Kosmin is a wonderful lecturer.
Reading for the section assignments and some studying for weekly quizzes. Two papers and two exams will not break the bank. Lots of consistent busywork but a FANTASTIC lecture and useful sections.
A very difficult class. You will furiously take notes for the entire lecture, as the exams are mostly based on this information. TONS OF WORK: midterm, weekly quizzes, weekly section assignments, in-class debates, 3000 word final paper, final group project, and final exam. Definitely more work than I have done for a class in a long time. Workload aside, Professor Kosmin and the TFs are wonderful! Their passion for the subject and commitment to the students is clear.
You learn a lot of information about ancient Greek history without too much work.
Only take this class if you need to fill a concentration requirement. It is fairly difficult (a lot of information in a short amount of time, competitive environment) and there is a lot of reading and many assignments (overlapping papers and exams during midterm and finals periods, weekly section quizzes and written assignments).
Prof Kosmin is one of the best lecturers I've learned from at Harvard, and his engaging class was always the brightest part of my day. I highly recommend this class (esp if you need it for the concentration/secondary)--you get a very broad scope of Greek history and definitely come out of the class with a much more nuanced understanding of Greek culture/civilization than any high school course will have taught you.
A great to get a really solid understanding of Greek history
This class was a great course.  Even though it is a requirement for the Classics concentration, it is totally worth taking and Professor Kosmin is an exceptional professor.
This course is a great choice if you have any interest in Greek culture or history. The lectures are fascinating, Professor Kosmin is a god, and the assignments are not too time consuming.
Professor Kosmin is a fantastic and engaging lecturer! The course material is fascinating, and you'll love the class! A great intro to Greek history and civilization
Take this class! It's amazingly thorough and not too difficult.
Great teaching staff, super engaging lectures by Professor Kosmin, and interesting subject material. This class is very enjoyable and helps you understand the million references to ancient Greece that are found in other disciplines even today.
This class will challenge you, but it will also be one of the most rewarding courses you take.
This class is fascinating. I think it is rare, how much it is. Prof. Kosmin gave lectures that were informative and exciting, and the TFs were good, and friendly. It's impressive the variety of Greek history, not just centered on Athens and Sparta for example, ranging as far as India (or China), and in the class to a nice degree you can find things out for yourself and choose your interests.
Great if you want to improve your knowledge of Greek history. I learned so much and Prof. Kosmin is amazingly knowledgeable.
Most people may know a little Greek history from high school or the History channel. Professor Kosmin goes way way beyond this and gives you insight to some of the most interesting findings that archaeologists and historians have to offer. He also teaches in a way that inspires you to go home and Wikipedia the subjects some more. Sometimes the course became a little confusing with regards to the organization of the lectures, but it will make more sense once you go back and review the course as a whole. Take it, take it!
It is the single best taught class in all of Harvard! YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT!
Absolutely fantastic course! Behold the intrepid classicist Paul Kosmin! He is obviously brilliant. His lectures are stimulating and well-organized. He perfectly integrates his own fascinating research with a broad survey course. I was exposed to many aspects of the ancient world that I have never encountered in any other departmental course. I highly encourage anyone interested in antiquity to take this course.
Must be interested in the classics.
This is a fantastic course.  Professor Kosmin does a great job of presenting a large amount of material in an organized way.  The readings for the course are interesting and are not overwhelming.  I highly recommend this course, even if you are not concentrating in the Classics.
It's a survey course packed with information and content from a long and rich period of history. Professor Kosmin is an excellent and interesting lecturer!
Paul Kosmin is a fantastic lecturer and I definitely want to take more courses from him. Although it is a difficult class because there is a lot of history to cover and lots of assigned reading, it is incredibly well structured and presented. Take it!
This was my favorite class of the semester. Every lecture was fascinating and I really left the class feeling like I had gained a much clearer understanding of the ancient Greek world. That being said, the class only made me more eager to continue studying the ancient world because it was made so clear throughout the class how profoundly the past, even the ancient past, shapes the world we live in today and how much we can learn through studying it.
Fantastic course, definitely worth taking if you have any interest at all in history or the Classics.
Professor Kosmin is one of the best lecturers at Harvard, and a truly amazing person to get to know--I highly recommend taking this class, whether you're only a little interested in Greek history, or if you already know a great deal about it.
This is an amazing class, being taught by an amazing professor and assisted by a TF who lives up to the rest of this class.
This was the class I looked forward to every single week. Professor Kosmin is adorably geeky (as you have to be if you're a serious Classicist), enthusiastic, knowledgeable, friendly and helpful. His career is beyond impressive (seriously, look it up), but his humble presentation of amazing artifacts and sites is refreshing. It's clear that he truly cares about what he teaches, and sharing his knowledge with students. You get SO MUCH out of lectures - they are quite detailed, and cover lots even within a single topic, for a class that only meets two hours a week, but you can't possibly get bored since Kosmin is such an engaging lecturer. Monica is an absolute sweetheart - personable, friendly, and caring, Monica clearly enjoys teaching students. She is great in section, and even if we don't cover the exact assigned material, we got into some amazing, animated and interesting debates that Monica happily encouraged. You really should have some interest in Classics if you take this course, not because it's necessary, but only because you'll be embarrassed next to the other Classics majors/secondaries.
This class has profoundly shaped the way I think about Greek history. Really, everything about it was excellent -- the lectures, the secondary readings, the projects, the exams. I would even recommend it to non-concentrators! Kosmin has an endless knowledge of Greek and Near Eastern history, and he makes sure that this does not become yet another shitty survey of Homer, the rise of the democracy, Alexander's ascent, and the purported decline of the polis. We covered so much that is left out of popular (read: wrong) narratives of Greek history. It was really inspiring. The last lecture almost made me cry.
I think that this class was really awesome. It's a lot of reading and the weekly quizzes can seem daunting every friday. But the material and lectures by Professor Kosmin were superb and made for a great experience.
Great course, very interesting material, great professor. Not too much work.
This class is challenging without a doubt but the material you cover is absolutely fascinating! Professor Kosmin and Monica work so hard to prepare all of the readings and assignments and although there is a lot of reading alongside weekly quizzes, they help to prepare you for the exams and supplement the lectures very well. The exams are straightforward but they cover a lot of material so keep up with the work! The small class size made learning about greek civilization even better.
Take this course for Paul Kosmin. Even if you don't think you are interested in ancient Greece, I'd suggest taking this course. The study of the Greeks is so widely applicable in literature, politics, philosophy, ethics, history, and more that it would benefit everyone to have some knowledge of this. Professor Kosmin is a phenomenal teacher. He is approachable, brilliant, engaging, and a fascinating person. You will not regret having taken this course. What are you waiting for?
If you have not experienced the triumvirate of Paul Kosmin, Andrew Johnston, and Rebecca Katz, you have not lived. Classics 97a is a drug, its participants a cult, and its instructors halfway to heaven. I cried! I laughed! The ladies lost 5lbs each! I cannot recommend this class more!
Like so many things in life, you will reap what you sow in this class. That being said, there's a seemingly limitless amount of knowledge to learn in this class should you put in much time and effort  something that cannot be said for all courses you're considering.
Take it if you want to learn about Greek history. Prof. Kosmin is a great lecturer. Just remember, the class is tough - by no means a walk in the park.
This class is mostly about memorization--piles and piles of information will be given to you, and you'll be expected to know most of it. However, despite all this--and weekly quizzes--it's surprisingly manageable and a great survey of ancient Greek history. Kosmin talks fast, but he's a great professor who clearly cares a lot about his students.
It is a TON of reading, and worth it to some extent, but could be modified to make it less work and more enjoyable
Really hard but quite the class.
The material is actually pretty cool.  If Kosmin cleans up his act and somehow comes up with a better course or someone else teaches it you're in luck and disregard the rest of this.  If not, personal interaction with the teaching staff is key and will keep you from completely going off your rocker.
If you are prepared to work hard to get the whole, holistic picture of classical Greece, this course is definitely worth taking.
The material is especially engaging and interesting to study, but this class requires so much time and commitment to the readings and long research papers and two exams! The amount of reading took away from my enjoyment of the class because it overwhelmed me.
If you don't have to take this course, absolutely do not. It's the worst experience I've ever had with any course. The teachers were good, but it was all just way too much-- this course took over my life in a semester that I couldn't afford that.
Be prepared for lots of reading and high standards. Kosmin is a fantastic lecturer and really invested in getting to know you, but in a class of 15, there is no where to hide if you are unprepared.
If you're taking this class, you probably don't have a choice and are doing this for concentration. It's a good class, but it's a lot of work, and a lot of reading. The midterm and final exams are extremely fair though. Mind you this class covered a lot more of the Near East than I thought influenced Greece.
Especially when taught by Professor Kosmin, who is doubtless one of the most brilliant people on campus, this course is a fantastic introduction to a (very) broad part of the ancient world. Taught, at least this time, at a noticeably higher level than 97b; whether that is a feature or a bug will depend on your point of view and existing knowledge of the ancient world.
The assignments aren't difficult. How much you learn in the course definitely depends on how much work you put into it.  Week to week there isn't much work to do besides readings and looking over notes for the quiz; it's possible to slack and do well but if you actually want to learn the history it's better if you don't.
Amazing chance to literally learn all of Greek history in one survey course.
You're not going to get to take the class I did, since Prof. Jensen is leaving this year.  And that is your loss.
Fun and lighthearted and a close knit class covering a surprisingly awesome part of history and culture.
This course is very easy, but don't let yourself get behind on material. Be aware that there is a new professor every year with a different syllabus and expectations, so you must make an effort to understand clearly expectations from both TF and professor
This is a wonderful class, and you'll get a really great overview of ancient Greek culture.
I guess it really depends who's teaching it, as I imagine the syllabus and themes of the course can vary drastically. Nate was a good instructor, though his lectures seemed scripted and you may space out; he's a lot more comfortable and engaging during discussion.
Interesting evaluation of writings from and the history of Ancient Greece
Really good class if you know nothing/very little about Greek history. Workload quite manageable and most of what professor says is in the slides (was more true in first half of course).
I would recommend this course only to students who are specifically interested in Classics and ancient history (such as me, since I took this course in order to fulfill a requirement for my secondary field in Classics). Otherwise, the highly detailed lectures and the demanding reading load might not be worth it for students who are not truly interested in the material. Overall, however, the course provides an in-depth introduction to ancient Greek history and serves as a useful foundation for further exploration in the field of Classics or ancient history.
You no not need to be familiar with the Ancient Greek texts, but you ought to have a genuine interest in learning.
doesn't give you a very good feel for concrete greek history (i had to read a lot of the textbook on my own) but an easy, straightforward class
This class was wonderful! Dr. Kosmin is a gifted lecturer and the teaching fellows are also amazing. I would absolutely recommend it to anybody at all who is willing to do the reading. This course was the highlight of my semester.
Professor Kosmin is absolutely amazing. He's a great lecturer and an extremely interesting and knowledgeable guy. This class is an excellent introductory to ancient Greek history!
Beware of this course especially for non classics concentrators. Kosmin is a great lecturer but he runs through so much material in that one hour. It is tough to copy down all the information you need for quizzes/etc. Honestly I would not take this course unless you have to. 97b is much more manageable. The midterms and final exams are terrifying because it is all essays and they give you no idea what the questions will be .
Read all the materials given.
Excellent, though non-traditional, course on Greek history. Professor Kosmin is erudite but accessible, and he emphasizes the traditional less-covered aspects of Greek history in a fascinating way.
Thorough history of Ancient Greece. Professor Kosmin is a fantastic lecturer. You will get a lot from this course.
Students who seek to receive a strong foundation in ancient Greek history and culture should certainly enroll in this course. Although I had some experience with ancient Greek history, this course wonderfully integrated culture into the story of Greek history, which I found very enriching. Students should have an interest in the material and be sure to stay on top of readings and weekly quizzes to make studying for the midterm and final more manageable.
This class is fantastic! Anyone who wants to learn about the foundations of Western civilization or revolutionize the way they view history should definitely take this class. Kosmin is an absolute gem and you should not miss out on his class!
Lots of work (two big papers, a final, weekly quizzes and section responses), but definitely worth it
This is a phenomenal class. Even though it does not fulfill any GenEds, definitely take it if you get the chance. Professor Kosmin is a fascinating lecturer and really wants to get to know his students. The sections were also interesting, and grading was not too difficult.
This is a very interesting and engaging class. Both Professor Kosmin and the TFs are amazing, and they do a great job of hitting all the important moments and concepts of Greek history. If you have any interest in this subject, this class is a great way to learn a ton about Greek history without too much work.
