This class is a very interesting survey of ancient history with a focus on conceptions of geography and ethnography and how those were impacted by empire aka a very interdisciplinary course. Therefore, it is accessible by concentrators and non-concentrators alike. Professor Kosmin is super engaging and interesting and is always there to help you if you have any questions. If you are looking for a really interesting elective, take it.
do the readings!
This one's great. PJK is brilliant. Even if you don't read (actually wish I had done so more often, as the material was cool,) you will still walk out of Kosmin's lectures feeling informed about the subject matter and wiser insofar as you will gain new perspectives on things you probably don't think about much now (geographic literature, depictions of space, et cetera).
This is a really interesting course with a great staff.
Professor Kosmin is incredibly engaging.  The readings are carefully chosen and interact well with in-class material and discussions.  A fascinating chance to study classics and geography even for a non-classics concentrator.
Paul Kosmin is the best professor in the Classics department. If you don't know, well now you know. This course is unlike anything else offered in the country: we read an assortment of standard texts (principally Herodotus, but also Homer, Strabo, Polybius, Arrian) and some unusual and unexpected ones (pseudo-Hippocrates, Eratosthenes, Agatharchides), and integrate close analysis of the written material with theoretical considerations on the interaction between ethnography and other systems of knowledge and other types of writing, and on the relationship between how empires are run and how they define their space. This was one of the single most interesting courses I've ever taken, and I cannot recommend it more enthusiastically. Even if you know nothing about the subject, take it. The course attempts to be as dialogic as possible -- there are student presentations, and we are asked to discussed the material frequently. I knew almost nothing about this subject before taking this class, and now there is almost nothing I'd rather study.
This is a fantastic course that is intellectually rigorous without being burdensome in terms of work. You will leave with a greater appreciation of the ancient world.
This is one of the top three courses I have taken during my four years at Harvard. Professor Kosmin is brilliant both as a scholar and a pedagog. This is a fantastic experience.
This is a fantastic class with a very knowledgable professor. The readings are great and its a no pressure environment where you can free to think beyond the usual learnings of the ancient world.
Professor Kosmin is amazing. If you are ready to do all the reading (manageable), you will learn so much.
