Not the most exciting class in the world, but you can get by without doing much or any reading, and you'll be able to nod more convincingly than most when someone mentions Hippocrates or Galen.
This class was pretty cool. It wasn't a whole lot of work, and was also very interesting. I would recommend this as a science concentrator.
Subject material was very interesting. Professor was very friendly and an engaging lecturer. Overall, more rewarding than demanding.
be careful in terms of section participation because most of the kids have some classics background to refer to in graded section discussions
Most people's knowledge of ancient medicine begins and ends with the Hippocratic Oath. There are a lot of things wrong with this, not least of which is the fact that Hippocrates almost certainly did not write said oath, or the fact that it contradicts numerous other texts in the Hippocratic Corpus. The material we study for this class is absolutely fascinating -- Babylonian and Egyptian physicians' manuals, case studies, polemics, anatomical essays, philosophical treatises, etc. In fact, take this class for the readings alone: the Hippocratic Corpus is one of history's most fascinating documents. Professor Schiefsky is also a terrific scholar. A caveat: the lectures generally do not assume that you actually did your readings (ah, the pains of Gen Eds), and are thus not always particularly engaging. The material is fascinating, though, as is Schiefsky's ordering of it. I'd strongly recommend this class.
Professor Schiefsky is a great lecturer who knows his material extremely well.  The class covered a wide range of civilizations and some of their philosophies towards medicine, which was pretty interesting.  There weren't quite as many medical techniques from each civilization discussed as expected, but overall it pretty good.
Really interesting subject matter. Schiefsky is great. Not necessary to do the readings (you basically go over everything you need in class), but still worthwhile to do.
Do the readings within a few days of the lecture to help it synthesize in your brain.
Go for it if you're interested. You might get a little bored at times, but worth getting the historical perspective. Also be prepared to hear a lot about urine, stools and phlegm.
This is truly a fantastic class about ancient medicine - Prof. Schiefsky is very passionate about what he teaches, which is always a benefit plus he's very approachable and willing to discuss any of the material with you in a way that really helps. The workload is great if you need a class that isn't intense at all - it's truly an enjoyable class with a workload that's more a pleasure to do than a chore, and something that I've found rare in other classes. Even having taken no other classics classes at Harvard, I had no problem adjusting to this class, and the things I've learned from the class really are quite interesting and the kind of things that I don't think I'll forget as soon as the final exam is done.
Students need to understand how to analyze ancient texts and philosophical works.
Ancient Medicine is a relatively easy course.  The readings are light and the exams are based exclusively on the lecture slides.  The Professor is awesome, it is a good break from pset courses.
Don't take this course thinking it will be an easy gen ed/elective. If you are interested in Classics, I would recommend it. However, there is a strong philosophy component to this course, so be aware this is not simply just an "introduction to ancient medicine" class.
This course was not too intense, but keeping up with the readings is relatively important. The weekly workload is not too bad. Only take it if you are interested in classics or the history or ancient science.
Wonderful course!
Very interesting material, engaging teaching staff, low workload, and accessible for non-classics people!  Take this class!
It is a really easy course, with minimal work required. However, lectures can be a tad slow and boring.
This class is a great class - the readings are quite fascinating, and there is pretty minimal work throughout the semester (relatively straightforward section assignments ~70pgs reading/week). Just be wary that your grade pretty much hinges on your performance on your final exam and final essay so make sure you will have the appropriate time to devote to those things!
Interesting class. Good way to knock out a gen ed
The teachers are lovely and the course is set up well, but if you are not particularly interested in this material, I would not take this class.
I think anyone who plasm to be pre-med should take this course.  It gives a great understanding of the foundations of medical ethics and theories, and the origins of anatomy, physiology, neurology, etc.  Even if you don't feel like history is your thing, you have to take a history class anyway, so take this one.  Also has a philosophical component.
This course covers a lot of interesting material, but it does cover A LOT, and can get boring.
Cool material but there is a lot of reading, which is sometimes really long, and then the test is usually passage identification so you need to understand all the differences between the texts.
Class is fascinating combo of philosophy and theory of medicine. Great for pre-medical students interested in history as well as Classics-interested students
Easy class. Enthusiastic professor. If you are premed or into philosophy this is a good class.
Great class! That is all. Take it if you have the time, it is very manageable with other tougher classes and is a great intro to classics.
While this course does provide a good overview of ancient medicine if you do all the readings and pay attention to lecture, the class itself is not the most exciting. The lectures are often a rehash of the keypoints in the readins.
This is a great survey course for those with an interest in the classics and medicine. It covers a broad number of early physicians and philosophers, as well as the history of early medicine. While there is a substantial number of course readings, there are few class assignments. This provides ample time to complete readings and enjoy the class. The teaching staff is extremely helpful and engaging. Overall, this is a good elective or Gen-Ed requirement, with low stress.
Terrific professor!
Great way to knock out a culture and belief.
It is a premed class. They will be surprised there is no right answer to these questions, and the first weeks will be spent teaching them how to think about subjects that do not have one right answer.
Good Gen Ed to take as it is not too much work but is still very interesting.
Definitely some interesting things that these ancient doctors did. The material is engaging and the larger discussions about medicine are excellent. Sometimes the in class lectures are a bit boring, but if you do the readings, then everything will be worth it.
Honestly, I found the class less engaging than I hoped.  I think that the class is not for everyone and a little dry at times but may be suitable for people with an interest in classics.
I definitely recommend this class if you want to take an interested gen-ed or are interested in ancient medical philosophy. Don't go into this class thinking it will focus on ancient medical treatments and procedures. Instead, you will learn about medical philosophy and how people in ancient Greek and Roman cultures understood the body, health, and medicine. The exams are nothing to worry about and the readings are generally light!
This is a great course to satisfy C&B--it's not too difficult, but it still manages to be quite interesting, which is rather an accomplishment for a course that most are taking to fulfill a gened.
The readings are great though the lectures seem to assume that students haven't read the texts and hence give little new material.
Before every graded assignment, make sure to meat with your TF to learn the rubric. Fun course, professor is really enthusiastic, and you'll come out knowledgeable.
