This class is great.  The material is interesting, and is not difficult.  The pace and the readings are not a challenge, but there is still a lot of depth and great discussion that comes out of it.
Professor Tarrant is a really wonderful and kind Professor. Ovid's Metamorphoses is a really important work, and poetically amazing in its own right. This course is a very intimate and pleasant experience, led very well by Professor Tarrant.
If this class is half as enjoyable as a Gen Ed as it was as a departmental seminar, it is an opportunity not to be missed! Tarrant is one of the world's experts on Ovid and he gives an enthusiastic introduction not only to Ovid but also to Renaissance painting, Baroque opera, etc. A class for those who are drawn to high culture and want to learn more about one of its cornerstones.
Take this class if you want to both gain a comprehensive understanding of Ovid's Metamorphoses and also grow as a reader, a writer, an intellectual.
APPRECIATE this class, it is amazing as is the professor.
Do not ever pass up an opportunity to take a class with Professor Tarrant if you can help it! He is one of the best (perhaps the very best) professor I've had at Harvard. He usually teaches courses now that require a knowledge of Latin, so this course is a real opportunity for those uninitiated in the Classics to take a course from a world-class professor. This course will change the way that you look at ancient literature and increase your appreciation of how it is imitated and referenced in art.
This class if fantastic. It is a wonderful way to learn about the Metamorphoses and to learn about how to analyze this literature.
This course is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard so far.  Professor Tarrant is an incredible professor with unending amounts of knowledge and talent, and he encourages excellent discussions.  The readings and materials are all fascinating, and you will get out of the course what you put in.  If you read the readings, listen to the operas, and appreciate the paintings, you will come out of this course with a greater appreciation for classical culture.
This is an extremely useful course for anyone in the humanities, and very enjoyable.
