This class provides a fantastic opportunity to learn a lot about a really fascinating piece of history. You learn a lot about your fair and about world fairs in general. I would caution anyone thinking about taking this course that it is, at times, a bit disorganized and as a result can be very overwhelming. The range of students in the class with different levels of experience (from grad students to undergrad freshmen) also made for discussion that was not that interesting. In all, I learned a lot, but often felt overwhelmed and stressed even though there was not too much work.
This class is really fun and engaging! It's very low-key and not too much work either, so definitely a plus.
The course is really interesting and although disorganized, it is still worth taking.
If you're not interested in World's Fairs, don't take the class. The onus is on you to do much of the legwork for this course, so if you aren't particularly interested in a given fair, or at least the events in general, it will be taxing.
Professor Blier creates a really fun and stress-free environment.  The assignments are very varied and relevant so the assignments allow you to explore your chosen fair from various angles (interactive maps, essays, presentations, blogs, etc.)  So you won't be bored in that sense.  Also, it is super helpful to get feedback from the Professor and from fellow students - as there is a lot of sharing your individual work with the class.  This helps you improve your own work and be inspired by the work of others.  Also, a big plus that all reading materials (which are short) are available on JSTOR.  On the other hand, the class is very easy and lectures a little scattered.  So... you'll have a good time and won't have to worry too much about it.
If you would like to attain general knowledge about word fairs but do not expect intellectual stimulation, you can take this class.
Go in with focus. If there is a fair that you are interested in researching then you should pursue that. You will spend the entire semester working on that one fair, make sure that you are interested in it.
Professor Blier is awesome. The requirements were very manageable and it was really nice to have one fair that you worked on for the entirety of the semester, so it really made you an expert in that fair and it made the workload much more bearable.
Great opportunity to research and run with one fair all semester.  The final paper can be written on almost anything.  Classes disorganized and somewhat pointless, but a very easy class to take and independent research element really interesting.
