This course was immensely interesting for a student who has never had any exposure looking at art history.
A good introduction to many different periods and ideas in art history, as well as to the discipline's methodology. Not as good an introduction to the overarching development of western art.
A fair bit of work at the end.
that it is a fun way to study art history but that zerner's lectures are boring
The artwork is great, but the lack of consistency in the lectures makes it difficult to follow.
Future students should take advantage of the introduction to Harvard's great art museums that this course provides.
HAA 10 is fun and not that much work.
Be prepared to memorize.
The exams were tough to prepare for, requiring a lot of mind-numbing memorization, but besides that, this course was great.
great class! lots of reading, but awesome lectures and info.
I would say that the course provides a wonderful introduction to the development of Western art.
MEMORIZE a lot.
The midterm and final require a lot of memorization.  The day to day of the course isn't terribly difficult, but the exams are fairly intense (a lot of writing!).
This course is a great introduction to the cannon of Western art. Some of the guest lectures were boring, and I wish some of them would use more colloquial rhetoric to explain what they are trying to teach because it was difficult to understand what they were saying. But overall, this was a great class.
The syllabus seems straight forward and simple, but the tests are very difficult.
painless, fun, interesting way to fulfill a litB core
Drink coffee.Memorize, memorize, memorize.Invest in a fancy laser printer.
While it may seem that there's not much work, there are very intense periods when the two papers are due, and when there is an immense amount of memorization to do. Overall, though, it's the best introduction to art history at Harvard.
A great class for those who have always promised themselves that they would take an art history class before graduating.
This course was one of the most rewarding experiences I had my freshman year at Harvard. The professors, lecturers and TFs were truly exceptional, and HAA lectures were definitely the highlight of my day!
I loved it!
I loved the topic, but disliked the lack of unity in tying together the topics of the course.Incidentally, it is reprehensible that so many students who lotteried to take this course were turned away.It should be offered every year if so many people are interested in the subject.
This was one of the best classes I took in my 4 years at Harvard -- it combines breadth and depth in a way more Harvard classes should.  Take it!!
If you want some exposure to Western art and art history, take this course, but beware of its eclectic nature.
Don't expect a general background in Western Art, or to know very much more when you visit a museum.
Don't take this course unless you have an excellent memory or a lot of spare time (ha!).
Not a great introductory survey class. Sections in the Lehman gallery were great, but lectures were disconnected and not entirely worthwhile.
Don't miss section!
There is a lot of interesting material, but because we never go into anything in any amount of depth, one does not emerge having learned that much.
The class is extremely good for people who had not taken an Art History class before. Each genre or period of art is so interesting to learn about, that I guarantee you will love this course. Just be sure to read all the readings.
The class is definitely necessary for art history concentrators, providing a foundation for future study and research in the field. It is also worth taking by other students, irrespective of their interests, for the skills and knowledge that the course builds.
Take it pass/fail! It makes the final so much easier, and it takes away the pressure so you can just learn freely with interest and enthusiasm.
This class provides a wonderful overview of Western Art, which you will keep with you your whole life. It develops an appreciation of art.
It is the best opportunity to meet a lot of the HAA professors
This is an amazing course, but make sure you stay on top of the reading.
Good class to take pass/fail
This course is excellent for those who have always had an interest in Western Art but have never taken a class on Western Art. This course also makes you enjoy museums. Most importantly, this course is a MUST for anyone planning on visiting European museums sometime in their life.
It is not well taught, the TF quality is uneven and the final is unfair.
This course is what you make of it.  It is easy to get lost in the sea of students taking this simply because it is a Core class; however, if you really embrace and appreciate the artworks covered in the class, the course will become much more fulfilling.
there is a lot of jsut straight (unneccesary) memorization and not enough standardization between the different section tfs. also many instructors were hard to understand.
This class is a great addition to your liberal arts education. After this class you will be able to speak intelligently about any Western painting.
Some of the lecturers are very notably better than others. Do the readings for section, even if you know you can easily get away with not saying anything in section. It will save you so much time and distress before the midterms and final exam!
an excellent excellent introduction to the tradition of art history in the western world, and the only class at harvard that offers that insight into how art has changed and developed over such a prolific span of history.
you should be really interested in art history if you want to take this course.
This is an excellent Core class that gives you a nice, comprehensive overview of Western Art History. Unfortunately, the ability to have section in the Fogg won't be available for a while, but that was what made it very special for me. However, the subject matter itself and the nice structure of the course make it definitely worth taking.
The course is great, but keep in mind that it is a departmental class and that the level of competitiveness might be higher than what it seems.
That lectures are not good, they are hard to follow and they don't really coincide with the sections, readings or assignments.  But I would tell them that sections in the Fogg are great (minus the fact you have to stand for an hour) and its fun to just hang out in the museum once a week.
one of worst classes I have taken at Harvard
Pass-fail is the best decision - too much to memorize.
It's a fun class, but only if you go into with enthusiasm. I had friends who took it but never went to lecture, which turned the class into a burden. It's not hard but it is also not conducive to bullshitting, so you should be ready and willing to actually attend class and be somewhat engaged.
I feel that this is a good class and that you learn a lot about art history. However, like many other introductory classes at Harvard, the course head seems to presuppose that we all have some knowledge of art, but I did not. The readings were really technical, and the exams were a mixed bag. The course also features some harsh grading, as they take into consideration structure and style of your essay more than the observations. However, sections were the best, and was the most enjoyable.
fairly easy, painless, and interesting core
I am unsure of how this course will fare in the future with the Fogg being closed for renovations.
it's a great way to become more cultured (or at least feel like you are)
Do not take this course if you do not feel like memorizing images. Some lectures are great, some are average, some sections are really painful and the readings are long and unintegrated. However, if you are truly interested in art and find the syllabus engaging, you will likely enjoy the course. Memorization is a huge component of doing well.
It's so boring.
It was disappointing.
The lectures are boring and hard to understand and the TF's are pretty stuck up about the art.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
It's worth it to take seriously, but you probably won't be able to if you're writing a thesis.
Definitely take advantage of this opportunity!
You will learn a lot and get a well-rounded artistic education (from amazing professors such as Professor Buchloh and Professor Koerner!), but if you get an awful TF such as Lisa Lee it will unfortunately ruin the entire experience.
Sure this is a pretty easy class, but don't take it just because of the low difficulty rating. If you enjoy art history and tracing the development of Western culture generally, it's a terrific intro course and a great way to see which professors in the department are good teachers (some are phenomenal) and which aren't.
Good course, show up to lecture, watch out for the tests.
This is one of the most interesting courses at Harvard.
Take this class if you want to have a more meaningful understanding of art.
You learn so much from this class!b
It is not terribly well organized and can be obnoxious when you have to memorize so many dates.
This class is useful for obtaining insightful dinner conversation knowledge about art but it wasn't as specific or in-depth as it could be
This course will give you a good taste for the professors in the department and a reader's digest version of the history of western art- but it WON't give you a comprehensive survey of the topic...there are some gaps. (but that is clearly stated in the course description anyway..)
It's a great way to learn the basics of art history, but the lectures are sometimes scattered.
It's okay.  It's just not great.  I wouldn't take it as an elective, since it's really not very well taught.  The material is cool, but it's really conveyed poorly.  I was interested in the material but I didn't like the class.
Whether you are interested in HAA as a concentration or simply want to get a little art history instruction before you graduate, this class is perfect.
This class will probably suck next fall if Zerner is still heading it because he is REALLY boring AND you won't get to see the paintings first hand in the Fogg. I don't see the point of taking it if you can't see the paintings. Without that, it's the same as looking at the paintings on google image and reading some wikipedia summary of the most famous painters.
A great survey course. It is interesting and may encourage you to do a concentration or secondary field in art history.
great way to begin to appreciate art.
I would not advise taking this class in its current form.  If you want to learn about art history, you would be better off just reading Gombrich (it's a quick read, and interesting, too) and taking something else.
go to lectures and sections!
Take it because its relatively stress free but really boring.
This course is one of the best I have ever taken at Harvard - I've gained an appreciation of art that I never believed I could cultivate, simply from sitting through these fantastic lectures.  On my spring break trip to Spain, I was more eager to visit the museums and see the works that we had learned about than to seek out other forms of entertainment.  If you are paying $200,000 to be here, might as well get something like this out of it.
--it is a lot of reading every week and there is a lot of images to memorize which can be difficult, but overall the course is definitely worth it. I really felt like I learned something! The sections in the Fogg were great and the TFs were always willing to explain the difficult readings. Overall, the exams weren't as difficult as they seemed they would be because topics were generally well-chosen. The lectures were great most of the time.
Make flashcards for the final!
Interesting course, but it is a general overview of art history.
This is one of the least painful ways to satisfy a core requirement.
It's a really interesting class if you want to test out an art history class or even if you have some experience with art history already. The lecturers are good, and you get to have section in museums, which is AWESOME!
This class changed the way I see art completely. The busy-work involved with memorizing so much minutiae was quite a nuisance, and some lectures were let-downs, but in general they were outweighed by the really profound lectures and the sections spent in the Fogg. If you enjoy art, this is a worthwhile course. Don't take it, however, just to fulfill a core requirement, if there are other cores that interest you. It was so crowded-- an awful pain-- and you'll just be taking the spot of someone who really cares about the material.
I took it pass/fail, which I am very happy with.  I liked the general nature of the course, but don't think the forced memorization is that valuable and makes the course much more difficult.
If an art history concentrator, take it without reservation.
it was an amazing! and i loved every minute of the course!
You will learn a lot about art. It's fun to look at art for credit. But ultimately, the class is flawed because its a bunch of professors giving lectures on their specialties and the sections focus on important concepts in art, leaving nothing holding everything together. If you go in knowing that you won't get a full narrative and that you'll jump from 1820 to 1910 (and over the impressionists) and that its professors giving lectures on their particular specialties so if its not in the department it won't be there you will be fine. But don't expect this to be a true "survey" course.
HAA10 is a highlight of Harvard. It is a way to be exposed to expert art historians, and it makes you see the world in an entirely new way. I recommend attending lectures and sections because they are always fascinating and ultimately provide the material tested in the exams.
The lecturers are good and the sections are interesting, but the scope of the course is too broad to gain an in-depth understanding of the topics discussed.
If you aren't that interested or curious in the subject the course will probably be miserable.  You'll hate standing up the whole section and walking around the museum, and memorizing all the images will seem like torture.  But if you have any interest in art, you'll love the class.
This class is a great survey course to acquaint students with western art. ]
fun course, huge survey, very interesting
Be prepared to memorize
this was an amazing introduction to the study of art history, and having section in the fogg was a great experience.
If you want to completely waste your time at Harvard by concentrating in History of Art and Architecture, then this class is a great place to start.  On the other hand, if you want to learn relevant, important concepts that will help move the world forward, then take ANYTHING OTHER than this class.
This class is a great way to introduce yourself to the different styles of art and the various famous artists.  Before the class i disliked modern art but now that I understand it, I really like it.
Very interesting, useful cocktail talk, fun to go to the museum and discuss works in person, well organized by head TF but lacking in guidelines about how to go about writing a good paper and the lack of one page or powerpoint for the key slides make it tedious and frustrating
Very interesting!
Well, it's not going to exist. So more honestly, I'm just not going to recommend it.
Not a very high workload and you can get away with not doing much. Just be prepared to learn a lot of slide ID's for the exams (that don't count for many points) and be prepared for not so engaging lectures.
The class is a lot of fun! Definitely go to lectures.
When everyone says there's a lot of memorization on the exams, they mean it - as in memorizing the titles, artists, and dates (to within FIVE YEARS) of 110 works of art that cover 650 years of history. Learning about art is cool, as is getting to look at actual artworks during section. But the course is extremely poorly structured and disorganized and the memorization is ludicrous. Never went to lecture so can't comment on that. It's pretty easy to get by without doing work if you're required to take it, but if you aren't (I wasn't), just read a book about it.
It requires a bit of work but it's manageable.
If you do not have any background to art history it's a great intro
Something all students should know.
If you don't have a clue about Western art history and would like a comprehensive introduction, take this course!
This is a great class if you want to get an overview of art history. I learned alot and i enjoyed the overview
This class was really interesting! Section was really fun and the essays were very rewarding. It is tricky if you don't have any knowledge about art but still very doable.
Without an art background, this class is hard.  There is also a lot of work for a GenEd.  The section quality varies greatly by section TF.  One portion of the exam requires a lot of memorization.
Take this if you like art. If you do not like art, do not take it just because you want to fulfill a gen ed. I took it as an elective.
You will be able to look at paintings by the end of this course, and with fairly good accuracy get the artist, date, and period correct... wow.
This class will be a different class next year because it will be taught by a different teacher.
It was really easy, there were very few assignments, but the lectures were so boring. It'll be easy, but you won't get that much out of the course.
In this class you not only learn the history of art but also get to see it up close in the Fogg museum and discuss it in detail with your peers and TF.
If you want to know more about art that you might at this point take for granted, or if you want to know why great art is considered great art, this is the course for you. Probably don't take if you are just looking to fulfill the gen ed req and have no other interest in the subject.
This course is too ambitious in the time spread of material covered. As a result, the topics are merely skimmed and not explored in much depth. Many of the lectures were extremely dry, slow, and uninspiring. That being said, it is a good class if you want a crash course in Western art history, and also quite manageable when it comes to workload.
it is an excellent course! the only drawback for me were prof zerner's lectures. he's retiring now; they should hopefully have someone younger leading the course.
Be prepared for boring lectures.
This class was pretty great, particularly the first 2/3 of the semester which were spent studying really classic artists like Da Vinci, Raphael & Drer. The readings are a bit of a drag honestly because some are quite interesting but long and the others are beyond dry and too abstract for a non-art history concentrator. The modern period is far less interesting and becomes very open to interpretation/abstratction/lecturer grandstanding/overall lack of relevancy to an art history education (soviet avant garde? a bit esoteric for this kind of course in my opinion). Anyway, this course is a good survey otherwise! The survey of lecturers is also really nice because if you do want to concentrate in HAA you will know who you like and who you do not. Koerner was a phenomenal lecturer!
This course gives you a great basic understanding of the western artistic tradition. I can now confidently identify important artists and their artworks from the past several centuries. However, the broad scope of the course is a bit overwhelming and lectures were pretty hit or miss depending on who was speaking.
This is an interesting course, and a broad sweep of art history. You get to look at a lot of cool work, and it's great to take an art class when so much of the art is literally in a museum across the street (The Fogg). Start memorizing the ID's for the tests early, it's a lot to memorize (but not unpleasant, if you start early).
If you're curious about art and want to be able to speak about it in a more appropriate way, definitely take this class.
The lectures are hit or miss depending on the lecturer. Most of the professors are great, but a couple just keep on rambling on about nothing. Section was phenomenal. It was an amazing experience to see so many amazing works of art up close.
This is an excellent introduction to the field of art history if you have never experienced it before. You cover five centuries of art, so you get a broad knowledge base--however, the flip side is that sometimes the various lectures feel disjointed because they move so quickly through time and subject material. This course will make you better at looking at art, so that the next time you're in a museum, you can use a more critical eye. Lectures were relaxing and generally engaging, though somewhat inconsistent because they were taught by many different faculty members. If you have some familiarity/experience with art history from before this class, taking a more focused class would be a better option for you.
I think Prof. Zerner seems like a wonderful person but he did not do a great job teaching the second half of the course. With a different professor it might be a much more instructive class.
the lectures are hard to get through but the basic knowledge of art history that you gain is worth it. a lot of memorizing.
This is a good overview course to get a taste of what the art history department has to offer. The lectures are sometimes hit or miss, but the sections are amazing. Going to the Harvard Art Museums and actually looking at the works they have and talking about them is a once in a lifetime experience. Overall the class is not too difficult, but it helps to have a little background in art history, but it is definitely not necessary.
This class was a great introduction to the art history department and most of the lectures were really interesting. It felt a little disorganized at times, and I was happy that I already knew a fair amount about art history otherwise it would have been confusing. In general, this class was fairly easy but also definitely worthwhile, and having section in the Harvard Art Museums was really cool.
This was a fantastic class. It covers a lot of material - definitely a survey course - and it was amazing to hear experts from all over the department. Sections are fantastic because you work closely with masterpieces (ie: a sketch from Gericault's Raft of Medusa!), but sometimes there is TOO much artwork. If you're interested in Art History as a concentration, this is a great class because you get a touch from all over the department. If you just want to learn about Art History for your own interests, it's also a great class. Not too difficult - little busy work, and you really learn! Writing assignments give you the chance to delve into your own interests.
This course is definitely a survey course, and will not explore any particular works in depth. You will get a broad sense of Western tradition, but it is but a taste of these issues and transitions. It can be occasionally difficult to figure out what you should actually take away from lecture, and as someone who had taken art history courses before, this felt a bit strange. I think this is a good class for someone who is interested in just getting some basic exposure to western art and tradition, but I would not recommend it to students who have taken upper-level art history courses.
This is a great class with a very manageable workload. If you are curious about explorign the arts, then this is a great entry class. Perfect way to meet the general educaiton requirement. Further, the teaching staff is very nice and they are very conscious of the fact that there are people of differing skill levels in the class. They have done their best to make sure that everyone is capable of doing equally well. I loved learning about art and felt that I was able to develop a new interest through this course. This is a class that I will probably think about even decades from now. Zerner was a great lecturer and the other professors were also quite interesting.
Lectures are incredibly boring. Very easy/no work though.
Don't take it. I thought HAA 10 would be a fun, easy elective, but I was completely wrong. The lectures are boring, and the midterm and final exam are impossibly difficult. I enjoyed looking at artwork up close in section, but not enough to merit suffering through the rest of the course.
I would encourage most people to take this course! I really liked this course and it made me consider concentrating in HAA. To be fair, I was and am interested in art and visual learning anyway. Don't take this class just for the gen-ed, take it because you truly want to learn how to think critically about art and how art has changed and developed over the previous few centuries. Don't expect a typical gen-ed easy A (it is easy, but you still need to put at least some effort and interest in). The sections are AMAZING because you get to see awesome pieces of art that the museum never displays to the public. And it's a great addition to your schedule because it's different from most other types of classes (pset or essay) because of the visual component.
The basis of the course is in 100-150 works, and paying attention in lecture will make it enormously easier to understand and remember them all.
This class is great for anyone who wants to learn how to better appreciate art in museums, especially our own Harvard Art Museum! The section component is AMAZING - you will learn so much and get access to art work not shown in the galleries. It provides a broad survey across art history for people (like me) who aren't familiar with art history.
I would definitely recommend this class, but I think if one wasn't really interested in the subject matter already, the lectures could be a little difficult.
If you have any interest in art and/or want to learn more about how modern art came to be, I would recommend taking this course. HAA10 really helped me understand why modern art is as big of a deal as it is, and it taught me a lot about artists and art movements that I only had vague knowledge about before.
Overall the class was great. You learn a lot of art and it really helps you appreciate paintings the next time you choose to go to a museum. However, the class needs to be better organized. TFs are hit or miss and can be unhelpful navigating the course. Sometimes grading would be easy and at other times harsh, with no real sense of why.
If you want to learn about all of art history in one semester, take this class. Although it is impossible to cover the history of art in detail in such a short period of time, you will gain a grasp of important artists and periods.
Be prepared to memorize names of artworks, artists, dates, and mediums, though the content is sometimes interesting.
It's a great class to take, but I would reocmmend pass fail... you don't learn that much taking it for a serious grade and depending on your TF you could get seriously screwed over. I mean, at this point I dont relly know my grades yet, but some TF's can be particularly harsh. the Lectures were interseting
Very manageable workload, can help you obtain a nuanced understanding of art and art history. Some of the lectures can be lackluster.
Don't take this class unless you're an HAA concentrator. There are for sure more interesting classes to take.
This classes addresses the problems of the generic "art history survey course." It doesn't attempt to be more than what it is, which is an introductory course that offers particular glimpses into the western art historical narrative as well as insight into the technical aspects of art.
I came out of the class learning so much - from knowing nothing about art to being able to comfortably bring friends around art museums and talk about art. But prepared to put in a lot of work. The lectures, sections and readings can sometimes be disconnected and you will need to spend time connecting the dots to see the bigger picture. But it was definitely worth it!
This has low-workload, you get to look at pretty things and learn a lot about Western culture.
You just need to take a course like this if you want to be a cultured citizen.
This class is great. Section is very interactive and the guest lecturers are interesting and incredibly knowledgeable. Lectures can sometimes seem too broad to be useful, but otherwise a good class.
While you may learn to understand some great works of art, you will have to achieve this understanding without the guidance one would expect from an intro course. This course is also a bad example of an otherwise great department.
This course gives you an understanding and appreciation of art that I would not have otherwise had. Art can be impactful and meaningful without being conventionally beautiful.
I took this course because I wanted to take an art history class in college, and to some extent, this achieved that, but if the goal is to learn about the history of art and be able to have a more interesting experience next time you visit a museum then there are probably much better classes out there.  The exams basically depend on ability to memorize slides and various artistic movements and their dates, and the lectures by Zerner easily put people to sleep.  Fortunately, section can be very interesting because you get to look up close at real (sometimes quite famous) works of art, that was a very cool experience.
Really great introduction to Western art. Learned a lot and got to visit the museum quite a bit, which was cool. Very very manageable workload - great 5th class or for a semester with other hard classes.
This is the only art history course I have taken at Harvard, but there must be a better one. Make sure you can stand the lectures before you enroll.
This is relatively simple course if you're just looking to get a background in art history. Most lectures are at least decently interesting, and sections are amazing. Having the chance to look at original works of art up close and in a class on a weekly basis was great. Readings could be a bit dense and generally uninteresting, but you don't really need to do them to do well in the course.
Henri Zerner is the man. His lectures are sometimes a little slow to get to the point but are chock-full of interesting information, and I'm glad to have been able to take a class with him before he retired. The course overall does a great job of introducing you to Western art over the centuries - different movements, main artists of each period, how art and its functions changed, and so on. Would definitely recommend for not only how much you learn about art, but also about history and the world.
This course gives you a great overview of art history from 1400 to the present. Do not take it if you don't at least a remote interest in art history. It will be extremely boring if you don't.
Don't take this class! If you like art, you won't like this class. If you don't like art, you won't like this class. There is no underlying thematic or chronological structure to it, the lectures are weak and boring, section is actually painful, the readings are bad, the midterm/final are a nightmare to study for, and the papers do little in terms of intellectual stimulation. By far the worst class I have taken at Harvard and I genuinely enjoy art.
For students who like to look at and think about art, this would be a good choice for fulfilling a Core/Gen Ed requirement -- it would also be a good introduction to the HAA department, for potential concentrators/secondary fielders.  P.S. The teaching staff is really solid, so I would recommend getting to know them -- they are a valuable resource, and really nice people besides.
Only take this course if you already know art history very well and are prepared to learn disparate aspects of the subject, with absolutely no overarching themes and connections.
Do the readings and attend the lectures, because they are really interesting and make the exams extremely easy.  Don't be turned off by the first couple of lectures, because they get a LOT better.
Great class if interested the connections between the Renaissance and modern.
Great intro to art history, but probably not the easiest core.
It's worth taking.  If you want an introduction to art and art history, it's a nice one.  There isn't much work, and the assignments are flexible.  The readings are not interesting though.
even if you've never taken an art history class before, if you have a strong, budding interest in art, i suggest taking this class.  many of the professors for this course are clear, articulate lecturers. section is also very organized, and it's fun walking around the museum looking at paintings instead of sitting around a table.
There are a lot of ID's to remember but other  than that it is great
This is a great course and you will learn a ton about art from the last 500 years.
It is a very enjoyable course for whoever wants to know a bit more about art history itself or the concentration.
this is a fairly easy, painless course. very interesting material.
A lot of work, but highly rewarding. Not an "easy A" core class, for sure.
Be prepared to memorize.
The essays on the exams are very challenging due to all the knowledge and artistic concepts you are expected to incorporate when writing them; however, the important thing is to be creative in your response.  Have fun thinking about all the different ideas that can be applied and discussed when observing any and every work of art, whether it be about the subject material, style, medium, historical context, etc.
If you like art and are looking for an easy and enjoyable core or elective, this will be a good fit.
Great survey course. You learn a ton, but be prepared to be overwhelmed at times.
Take the class to get a broad grasp of Western art from 1400 to the present.
I think all students should come out of college with a background in the arts.  However, I would say that this class is not as easy as people say it is.
Memorizing the paintings is tough, but if you're interested in art, this class is GREAT!
An awesome introduction to Art! You will not regret taking this class!
The class will focus on major artists one at a time, giving a detailed, if patchy, introduction to the Western tradition.
Lectures are dull and hard to follow, but the class is almost worth it for the sections alone.
This class is a great intro to art history.  Sections are great and the TF's are very enthusiastic.
Great for Western art enthusiasts
I finally feel that I am the cultured Harvard student I envisioned when I came here.  I will have cocktail party banter down for the rest of my life.
it's a shame that this course is so poorly run. the material is very interesting and learning about the Western Tradition should be a great experience. unfortunately, the course is very hit-or-miss. many of the lectures were confusing or unintelligible; depending on the tf, the assignments and grading were frustrating; and you leave the course feeling like you learned a lot less than you should have. i heard that other HAA courses (perhaps with 1 good lecturer as opposed to an assortment of many) offer better experiences...
Some knowledge of formal analysis would be helpful
Watch out for Professor Zerner's lectures--they'll leave you dazed and confused.
It's an introduction class, I would take it if you're interested in art and want to get some background.  However, don't expect for it to generate an interest that previously was not there.
Be prepared to memorize a lot, but you'll leave this course with a good grasp of art history (and be able to impress your friends at an art museum).
This is a great way to get to know the different HAA professors at Harvard. Be sure to make notes on each one for future reference. Also, do the readings!!
A great introduction to the study of art history. Don't be put off by the not-so-good guest lecturers, because the good lecturers more than make up for them. You don't cover every single great artist, but you come away from the class with the ability to go to a museum and talk intelligently about the art objects there. It was really interesting learning about some of the big themes in western art history over the centuries. Great class, you should take it!
Go to lectures and section.  They are actually really good.  Readings are hard to those who haven't taken an HAA class but they aren't highly emphasized so it's fine.
This class will inspire you to concentrate in HAA. If not, you'll have a deeper understanding of artistic representation and what everyone's talking about when they talk about art. It serves as a springboard to understand your world more fully and think critically about what you see. It's a must.
wonderful class, i truely enjoyed it
I would tell future students that this class really gives them a chance to engage with experts in different areas of art history and that it is a fascinating introduction to the subject.  The sections are unique in their arrangement, and they allow students to view actual works of art in the art museum, while the engaged TFs and professors provided a broad but intriguing overview of Western art.
none
Start memorizing the images early on.  The ones from section are the hardest to learn.
It's a really great introduction to art history through Western art, for anyone who wants to know more about the subject.
This is not a course where you will learn about any artistic movement in great detail.  However, it is a fantastic overview.  Some lectures are better than others.
study group's so helpful - stay on top of readings! also, definitely recommend memorizing the images as you go. 150 at the end of the course two days before the finals... not so awesome.
This class is not too difficult and good introduction to Western art history. If you are planning on pursuing a concentration or secondary field in HAA, it is really helpful in getting to see what each of the professors are like because they switch every couple of lectures.
This is an extremely subjective course.
a
Only take this class if you are already curious about art. It does not teach about how to approach or look art.
HAA 10 is a great course and is a wonderful introduction to Western art since the Renaissance.  The lectures are interesting and I think we are truly privileged to have renowned guest lecturers that come in every week to introduce specific subfields.  These are very engaging.  If you don't know anything about art history I would highly recommend listening to the teaching staff by reading Gombrich.  This is quite important because otherwise you'll have no idea of the context and may find the class boring.
This class has a lot of good content that practically anyone, regardless of their background in art history could benefit from.  However, I think you get the most out of this class if you are a beginner.  This was my fifth art history class and at this point, there was a lot of repeat material and reading (about 4-5 of the lectures were completely repeats for me) which wasn't quite as engaging.
great survey course of western art history. if you are looking to take one art history course while at Harvard, this is the one.
Fabulous course, but make sure you sit in the front row for lectures as some of the professors are difficult to understand!
For a course with so many students who are enrolled as a concentration or gen ed requirement, there is much more rote memorization and specification than there should be.
The course is fun if you have any interest in art history, and it will change the way you look at art forever. Lectures were a bit disjointed and readings could be dense, but overall a good experience. Make sure to give yourself a few days before the exams to memorize the slides, and you should be fine.
This class introduces you to major figures and events in Western art and gives you a sense of how they evolve and interact throughout history.  Almost every lecture is taught by a different professor who is an expert on his/her topic, so at the end of the semester you come away with a fairly deep appreciation of ~20 specific artists, with some inevitable gaps (e.g., Titian, Rembrandt, Van Gogh...).  The workload is quite light, so I would recommend HAA 10 for anyone interested in getting a taste of art history (and exploring the Harvard art collections!).
It will broaden your knowledge of art to a huge degree.  Regardless of whether you enjoy the class itself, you will leave the class appreciating art.
The section is terrible.  The lectures are inconsistent and confusing.
This class is a lot of work in terms of the exams and papers and the style of art analysis takes some getting used to if you haven't taken an HAA class before.  However, it is COMPLETELY WORTH IT.  Art will take on new meaning and for an art history beginner, the broad time span is perfect!
I'm glad I took it but studying for exams was not very fun.
Take this class if you like (or think you might like) art history. It is fun and informative, and a nice departure from other classes. Workload is usually not very high, except around exams and essays, which are hard.
Excellent material - certainly worth knowing - presented in a compelling manner. The workload does increase towards the end of the semester, but it's manageable.
Most Lit and Art B's suck, so if you're at all interested in art, I think this is one of the best ways to fulfill that requirement.
the workload was manageable and the subject matter was really enjoyable
This class is a good GenEd class.  Lectures can get a little boring sometimes, but they are usually on interesting subject matter.  If you're good at memorizing things, the tests will be completely passable.  The weekly readings can be fairly lengthy sometimes and hard to understand, but usually section helps to clarify those things.  If you like art at all, this is a good class for you!
I took this class thinking that I would just suck it up and handle the memorization that I read about in the Q, but really the disconnects between the class, section, and the readings make it more problematic than that. Unless you're really willing to put in the time to make connections between the things presented, it's a fairly unengaging class. Best for beginning art history concentrators who are ready to put in more time and effort than a survey class is worth.
Great background for everyone to have in art history. Fun and easy.
Nice if you know nothing about art history
This course is absolutely valuable and interesting, but as something you are graded on and expected to absorb specific ideas from, it can be very frustrating. I'm still not entirely sure what the "Western Tradition" actually is. If you love art, you will be able to find a way to tie the concepts together and appreciate the class. If not, as I can see how the class can be unfulfilling and confusing. Looking back on the course, I know that I learned a lot that will be useful later, but I distinctly remember coming out of lectures and being angry about how little cohesion there seemed to be between lectures, sections, and readings.
Loved the course - understand it is not comprehensive so some of the patches are really going to annoy you, but if you put the time to understanding those patches, you will actually come out of this course as literate in western art, which is awesome.
It's a very good A&I class for not-particularly-artistic students like me who were afraid of filling that GenEd requirement. The sections in the museum really teach you how to look at different types of art.
Exams emphasize memorization more than understanding; lectures are disjointed, but the works are pretty cool.
Many lectures will not be worth your time. Should a similar professor deliver lectures in the future, you will also pass two hours listening to the best lectures you will most likely have at this school. Sections, by the way, are [worth you time]. They really, really are.
When I first looked at this class I was trying to find a suitable Gen-Ed to satisfy AIU, and my two options were this class and Lit and Sex. I chose this class and I am definitely glad I did. There were comments that said this class is horrible and boring, but honestly enjoyed it a lot. I felt that section was very interesting and I really felt like I learned some very useful things. I am a lot less ignorant to the art world now and I am looking forward to traveling to Europe and seeing the art that I learned about. The work is minimal. I would definitely recommend taking this class!!
A good introduction to the history of Western art but which at times can feel like a disjointed class.
It's a FINE class. Not great, not bad.  Solid material and interesting sections but very hit or miss lectures.
This course is awesome!  Exams require memorizations, but sections meet in a roped-off room on the 4th floor in the Sackler Museum.  The course is taught by most of the HAA department and it caters to nearly anyone with a remote interest in the history of art.
This course is great for students who have never studied art history, though I think it can be disappointing for those who have. The workload is deceptive, while course readings are very short and easy to follow, the midterm and final exams are very difficult and cover a lot of material. It's not the type of course you can skip lecture in and also do well in.
The class is good because it is the only introductory art class in the department but it does not do a good job at introducing the student to the expanse of Western art. It would be better named topics in Western art.
Background knowledge of art history helps, but is not at all necessary. If you're bad at memorizing things, don't take this. Most important, however, is a genuine interest in art and art history - if this fits your description, take it. In general, it's a great course, and section component is quite enjoyable. Definitely increases one's appreciation of art.
This class is good if you are interested in the art history.  The lectures are very hit and miss.  Some are really great and others are boring.  I found the TFs to be very good at teaching section and helping with assignments
This course is the perfect introduction to a fascinating subject, and it will take you from any level of knowledge to a very respectable level.  You will come out knowing a great number of artists well and with a good grasp of the trajectory of art in the Western world from the Middle Ages to the present.  Not to be missed!
Find a way to become interested in the course material and everything else is much easier.
This course is not meant to be an extremely thorough coverage of Western art since the Renaissance. Instead, it highlights some important moments and whets the appetite. It teaches you how to think about and analyze art. As an engineering concentrator it was just what I needed, but it might be to elementary for others with experience in this kind of thing.
Good introduction, but you have to keep up with the class. The memorization is the easy part. Keeping track of the disparate lectures and reading is the tough part.
This class is interesting and easy. Although it can be intimidating it requires no previous art history knowledge and gives you a foundation for understanding all sorts of different art.
The course is not that much work but the three elements (reading, section, and lecture) are not well linked and the chronology is somewhat shaken
Awesome class! You get to hear a lot of different professors lecture on their areas of expertise.
If you are already interested in art history, this class will enhance your knowledge in a satisfying way. If you are not interested in art history, this class will probably not convert you to it.
Take this class if you want to get an overview of the visual arts from Renaissance onwards - if you would like to focus on one genre/movement/period you should consider other HAA classes/seminars. This class covers a lot of material and moves through the centuries very quickly. Also ensure that you're accumulating knowledge throughout - the final exam is all about making connections between everything that has been covered over the entire semester.
You have to do a lot of work connecting the three components of the course on your own. Most of what you learn comes from section and your own studying. Keep up with the readings.
It gives you a great understanding of art history over a long period of history.
HAA 10 is a great class that you should definitely take if you think you might have any sort of interest in art.  This class was not too strenuous in terms of day-to-day workload, though that is not to say that it is an "easy A."  This course dramatically increased my appreciation of art and I learned an enormous amount about an entirely new field.
It's very satisfying- you'll come out of it with a good fundamental knowledge of the historical trends and techniques. You also can benefit from the many styles of lecturers.
This course fails to offer any sense of depth or continuity.
I would tell future students to definitely take this class if they are in need of an introduction to the history of art.
The memorization was not the worst part of this course. The worst part was that the lectures and the sections were not at all integrated, so I was left feeling dissatisfied and unprepared for the exams. Don't take this class until they fix the structure; a new lecturer every week combined with disjoined lectures and sections made this course frustrating from the very beginning.
It's very confusing, "art history" is a deceptive phrase used on this course, do the SECTION reading ON TIME, and it's not necessary to go to lecture because they have nothing to do with the tests.
Filled a gap in my knowledge so i was happy.
Take this class if you're looking for a decent amount of work with a good payoff. The payoff is that you know SO much more about art.
The course is going to be annoying but you do learn a lot about art history. If you are intent on being an HAA concentrator take the course because you do develop basic skills you'll need. It requires a lot of self-learning though and reaching out to your TF. But you do get exposed to a lot of professors which then helps you choose which professors you want to take classes with in the future.
Fun class, you learn a bit about art history
Lots to memorize. Didn't spend anytime on the course until right before the exams.
Take this course! It's a very interesting and fulfilling way to satisfy the AIU GenEd.
That lectures are interesting, although do not seem to follow a cohesive progression. Section also does not necessarily cover the readings or the lecture. I also do not think that it provides a very solid general background for western art; rather, it serves as a specialized introduction to the HAA department at Harvard.
That some background in art is necessary.
While in the end, you do learn a lot (at least at a superficial level) about Western Art History, I would not recommend taking this class. While most of the guest lecturers are experts in their fields, they are unable to communicate in a coherent manner to the students - which makes the hour sitting in lecture incredibly frustrating.
if you like art but aren't going to concentrate in art history, then take it.  If you aren't a fan of art, you'll probably fall asleep in the lectures
HAA 10 is fun, even though the lectures can be somewhat boring at times.
If you're interested in art, it's a very interesting course.  Zerner is not a particularly strong lecturer, but most lectures are guest lecturers--which means some lectures are great and some are so-so.  There is a fair amount of reading, but you can get away without doing all of it.
This course is wonderful if you want a grounding in art history, and the western tradition. It filled in many gaps in my knowledge. However, the course is stifling - to learn images by rote is not, in my opinion, what art is about. I am astounded that we are restricted to discussing works that have been chosen for the course and are discouraged from talking about pieces not in the gallery or images to memorize list. However, I am pleased that I took this course - the gallery is a phenomenal resource and this was the basic foundation I needed to progress in this field.
Sections are great. Some lectures are good, others are not. A great course if you're generally interested in the history of painting.
The final is difficult. Memorize images as you go along. But the rest of the work is fine, and the class is great for general knowledge.
some lectures can be boring. papers can be hard to write. but you'll learn the basics of art history and it's good for general knowledge/cocktail talk.
The course is pretty disorganized and there is a ton of memorization.  Memorizing the paintings by exact year seems a little unnescessary/pedantic.
I would highly recommend this course to satisfy the core/gen-ed. There is a lot of memorization involved with learning the images, but it is a very interesting and engaging class and well worth the work.
Very interesting and fun class. Requires a decent amount of memorization, but you learn a great deal about an interesting subject.
This is a great class if you want a broad look at modern art. You learn ea ton about style, artists, and medium. A great intro class to art history!
It is a really interesting art class, but you have to like art to enjoy it.
Interesting overview of Western Art. Easy course in terms of grading. Readings are pretty dry.
Regardless, it's a class where you look at mostly awesome paintings for an hour every Tuesday and Thursday. Hope it's a year where more good HAA professors are lecturing and aren't on sabbatical. Hope for a good, understanding, non-artsy elitist TF.
It is pretty boring but some material can be interesting. The assignments are not too difficult. It does not require too much work every week.
It is interesting material but the sections are not relevant to what you need to know in class.
This is a great elective class.
Some lectures were MUCH better than others. Pay attention in lecture because videos are not posted online. Not too much work overall, only when papers were due.
Don't take it unless you have to
It requires a lot of painting ID memorization.
Don't take the class.  If you are doing it to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement, there are easier and/or more interesting choices out there.  If you are doing it because you are interested in art history, take another HAA class that goes more in depth into a specific topic.  The lectures were impossible to follow, the sections were tedious, and the assignments were highly subjective yet fairly difficult.
This class is interesting especially if you already know you're interested in art history.  Some guest lecturers are good, some are not.  Professor Zerner is kind of hard to understand because of his thick French accent.  The lectures and sections don't really go together which is kind of confusing.  The readings are hard, but generally unnecessary because you'll go over them in section.  I enjoyed the class, but if I could do it again I don't think I would take it.
You will learn a ton about art history in HAA 10, and you'll really get exposed to the amazing Harvard Art Collection (that's the best part of the class). However, you should know that the lectures are a bit disorganized/disconnected, and the exams involve a lot of memorization.
Lots of memorization, but you learn a lot
This class is structured in a very atomized way with a high focus on singular analysis of various artists without much discussion of the progression of art in the Western tradition.  What this means is though you will get better at analyzing works of art and appreciating new forms of art (like abstract art...who knew there was a point to it?), you won't get a sense of the history of art and how it progresses and connects with the larger history of the West.
Lots of memorization.
I took this course because the comments on it seemed awesome, despite the not-so-good Q rating.  That said, I would not recommend this course.  It needs some major renovation before it would be worth your time.  I came in interested in learning some background on history of art, as I don't know anything about it, but, while the subject matter was interesting in theory, the course basically killed it.  Lectures are unbearable.  Really.  I have never dreaded going to lecture as much as for this class.  They are just disorganized, boring, and not engaging.  Memorizing paintings is annoying, but not a huge deal--I would mostly just recommend staying away from this course until they completely overhaul the way that it's taught.
Be prepared to memorize, memorize, memorize.  Lectures can be somewhat optional in terms of getting information, but sections are definitely a must.
This is a great course for students looking for an overview of the Western art tradition. This course is not a comprehensive or particularly chronological look at the Western tradition, but rather gives you snapshots of different artists and movements in the Western tradition. Section is very important in this class and the readings are not that important. The hardest part about the class is memorizing the images for the midterm and final, and learning to write a formal analysis of paintings.
This class is great if you want to learn more about the history of Renaissance art and actually want to be able to talk about art when you visit museums! But definitely be prepared to memorize LOTS of slides for the midterm/final exams :)
Art History is crucial for cultural understanding - this is the introduction to that cultural understanding.
Great look at western art, makes you want to go to museums and just stare at paintings.
Start memorizing the images early, as they are very hard to retain if you leave yourself only a bit of time. If you are unfamiliar with formal analysis, give your TF a draft to read before you hand in a paper.
lectures can be a bit dry. readings are dense. section is interesting
Great class but be ready for the difficulty.
Lectures for this class are a pleasure.  Don't bring a computer or notes, just sit back and enjoy learning for the sake of learning.
Stay on top of the slides and readings.
The lectures in this class are very hit or miss. Some of the professors are great and give compelling presentations, but others are very boring and merely show images without giving much context. The section component is much more interesting and pertinent to discussing art. The class will give you a solid overview of Western Art starting with the Renaissance, but by only focusing on certain artists, a lot is missed.
If you are a person who loves to go to museums and wants something more to say that than "this picture is pretty," take this course. It will give you a much better feel for what in particular you like or dislike about particular works. And you will feel VERY cultured after taking it. Also a hint... READ GOMBRICH!
Flashcards are super helpful when learning the paintings.  Make sure to start memorizing the works of art early.
Relatively painless way to fulfill core requirement and become a bit more "cultured" along the way.
Do not take as an elective. Too much memorization. Must have background in art history or be very interested in art. Not an introductory course.
The class is easy, has a low workload, and will give you a solid understanding of the issues in the history of Western painting. Section in the Sackler is great, too. That being said, it's not the most comprehensive class; it's a survey where certain issues are studied in a lot of detail, so you have to be okay with potentially having some gaps in your understanding of art history at the end of the semester. Also, don't take it if you have absolutely no interest in art; besides making section awkward, you'll get called out for it on the assignments. There are other Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding classes out there.
Try to attend all the lectures.
This class is the perfect blend of fascinating material and engaging assignments.
This was my favorite course this semester. It made me appreciate art and all the thought, design and tradition that goes into it. Sections are taught in the Sackler Museum, looking at art in the galleries -- it was one my favorite parts of the week, and one of those tremendous opportunities that comes with being at Harvard. Take advantage of this class!
Learned a lot but lectures and teaching staff were very hit or miss.  Also, the teaching staff never seemed to know with any consensus pretty important things, like what would be on the final and what we would be expected to know.  I went to a midterm review session where the two tfs at the front spent the whole hour contradicting one another -- needless to say, it was more confusing than helpful.
Lecture is stupid, and marginally useful, but section is definitely worth attending.
This classes teaches you a lot about the artists and their work from Renaissance to modern times. Be prepared for a lot of memorization and some sense of disjointedness between lectures.
The class is a sweeping survey of art from 1400 to the present, that is often out of chronological order and hard to follow. Zerner is often dull and convoluted, which makes lectures sometimes painful. Overall, the course was ok, but I would maybe look to HAA 11 for a better course structure and better Gen Ed.
A great class to take if you have a genuine interest in art.
This class will help make you cultured and interesting to talk to at cocktail parties. It will increase your appreciate of art tenfold, and museums will become a joy to visit. If you aren't interested in the subject matter, don't take it as a gen-ed.
You will get as much out of the class as you are wiling to put in. Zerner's lectures are horribly boring though.
Lectures were confusing at times, but sections and office hours made up for that. Sections are the best part of the course because you are able to look at actual works of art with a TF who is very knowledgeable.
A great and intense introduction to art history.
Its an interesting course though there is a huge see-saw effect in the quality of the lecturers. Sometimes the lectures were fantastic other times they were not engaging at all. Be prepared to be both stimulated and frustrated with the course
The class is a lot of fun, and you will learn a great deal about art since the Renaissance. However, the course is not comprehensive, and you will be annoyed by the holes it leaves in your knowledge of art history. Finally, the guest lectures are often wonderful, but Henri Zerner is pretty uninspiring.
The papers and exams are not difficult for this course, so don't be scared away by people telling you the woes of memorizing hundreds of paintings during reading period. The course isn't perfect (scattered lectures, gaps in material coverage), but overall, you'll gain an appreciation for Western art and a knowledge of how to approach it. Section for HAA 10 was also my best section experience at Harvard in my four years here. It's interactive, practical, and generally fun.
I took this class thinking that I wanted to be a History of Art and Architecture concentrator. Now, I have no such desire. The lectures are pointless, the readings uninteresting, and the sections don't teach you anything; rather, they are an hour spent listening to vague conjectures and analysis made by the TF about art pieces. Do not take this class if you are interested about learning about the history of art itself--it's more of a discussion about the formal evolution of art. It's a fine class to take if you want to get a decent grade without doing a whole lot of work, but you will probably have a more meaningful experience learning about art history by taking an audio tour of a museum.
You will discover a new passion for a subject you never though you would have the opportunity to explore as part of your undergraduate education.
It's not too hard but the lectures are sometimes difficult to understand.
This class was not very well taught. there was no continuity between lectures, which made it very hard to have a big picture sense of what the course was hoping to accomplish. Section was wonderful though.
make sure you enjoy or are capable of memorizing a lot of pictures, names, and dates
be ready to memorize many images for the exams!
A lot of memorization goes into the exams, but other than that, the tempo of the class is set by your TF.
Zerner was a terrible lecturer. The class is a lot of work around midterms and exams because there is so much material that you are expected to memorize.
this class is amazing. i feel more cultured coming out. extremely rewarding!
Proceed with caution. The sections are great, but the lectures are not good.
This class is not a lot of work but the rewards are great, especially if you plan on attending galas in art museums in your future.
This course was a waste of my time and an insult to me, everyone else in that room, and any other professor whose lecture was scheduled to begin when HAA-10 lecture ended. Disjoint, jumbled babbling marked the vast majority of the lectures, which ran more than seven minutes over the hour on all but a few occasions, and no overarching themes or connections were given to sustain interest, cogency, or coherence. I have never been made angrier by a college course, and although I've heard it said that Zerner intends to retire at the end of the year, I doubt that his absence will much improve the course (though it certainly couldn't hurt). That being said, if he was going to go out with this pitiful a whimper, one wonders why he bothered at all.
Zerner is not the best lecturer, but the guest lecturers tend to be good.
Has the potential to be a good class. Harvard's impressive art resources are not used to their full potential. Multiple lecturers complicate the course unnecessarily.
This class feels really disjointed because of the different professors every week, and it's hard to figure out what's important from each lecture, so you end up coming away with nothing afterwards. It's too bad because the topic is interesting
This class is perfect for learning how to talk about and appreciate art
You expect an excellent, coherent introduction to Western Art history.. but what you get is a disjunct and poorly organized spattering of art history.  Some of the lectures are excellent (esp. the Bruegel lecture), but most are slow and a bit incoherent sometimes.
This class is a great way to learn about the history of art, which is why I took it. However, it is not that easy and there is a fair amount of work. Additionally, it is often confusing how lectures/reading/section go together, and you must put in a lot of extra effort if you want to actually understand the story of art.
I would avoid this course. It is too not well structured and  not conductive to learning art history or even about the painters themselves. Big error.
To not take it if they just want a broad overview of art, or want to learn technical terms. This class uses a magnifying look at specific artists within periods to give students a better understanding of art rather than just an overview. Be patient with it- I think the rewards from this approach come at the end of the class when the students realize they have learned how to look at paintings rather than simply the history of art.
The readings are very boring
A few rough nights of memorizing
Take HAA 1 instead, unless you're absolutely sure you want to learn about Western art only and aren't going to budge. This class was disorganized. Might be better if more professors were invited to rotate in and lecture
I want to take it again.
I recommend having taken an art history class, european history class, or religion class before this one.
It's poorly run and organized, and ultimately not explicatively informative about art history.
The lectures are not always great but you will walk away with a great general idea of art history.
Good class to learn about the basics in art criticism and art history
Don't be fooled; this is not an introductory course.  If I hadn't taken AP Art History in high school, I'm pretty sure I would have been unable to learn anything.  The way the course is structured--each lecture is usually specific to only one or two artists--makes it really difficult to put the information into a larger context.  Also, with only a few exceptions, the lectures themselves typically ranged from boring to downright confusing.  Would not recommend.
Lectures are completely separate from the readings and section.  Some lectures are interesting, but most are bad, especially with Prof. Zerner, who is knowledgeable, but mumbles and has a bit of a language barrier.  If you are not a artsy person, I would advise against taking this class, because I was constantly cynical of all of the analysis, thinking everyone was BS'ing (and I think many people were).  However, for me it was the best option for aesthetic and interpretive understanding, the remainder of which are poetry classses, etc.
It was not a walk in the park but I went from knowing nothing about art history to being comfortable talking about 500 years of Western Art. That is a great feeling.
There is a lot of memorization involved
