You won't get anything out of lecture.
Buchloh's lectures are some of the best at Harvard.
This is a great class to get a good overview of contemporary art, however the lectures are very fast-moving, jargon-heavy, and can be at a whirlwind pace, so not that much may stick in the end.
Only take this class if you are confident in your philosophical and art theory knowledge
You should know a bit about modern art (ie, have seen a Pollock, de Kooning, Picasso, etc), and it helps to have an opinion either way, whether love or hate; otherwise, the readings will be hard to get through.  The class probably won't be interesting to you unless you already enjoy art history or criticism. If you like taking museum tours in MoMA or Guggenheim, you'll love it.
if you are ves or art history this course is a MUST
The material is very interesting--art gets really weird, really fast after WWII.  An interesting survey class that is challenging and thought provoking, but not overly taxing.
Professor Buchloh lectures in a very roundabout manner, sometimes very confusing language. He makes up big words too all the time. If you take this class, you must be really interested in the material, and be prepared to struggle through lecture.
You must take a class with Buchloh before you graduate Harvard, and this lecture format is the best way to do so for those not looking for an in-depth, more personal seminar.
This class is wonderful -- take it! Professor Buchloh is a great mind and a wonderful lecturer. The reading materials are incredibly interesting and not excessive. You will learn more about both modern art and post-war intellectual theory than you ever expected to learn.
It's a lot of work and sometimes a little difficult to follow, but also engaging and fun.
If you are interested in the school of theory which Buchloh was instrumental in creating, the course is fascinating.  However, the section component needs serious improvement, as well as the Professor/TF/student interactions.
Love.
Don't pass up a class with Benjamin Buchloh - and this was a particularly fun one!
If you have any interest in the topic and can handle Buchloh's eclectic speaking style (which I personally find fascinating, but I know some people find confusing), you should definitely take this class.
Don't be intimidated by Professor Buchloh - he's actually a very witty and engaging lecturer.
I LOVE THIS COURSE!
This is the quintessential art history course on the post-War period. You'll never have another expert lecturer like Buchloh, but be warned that the lingo is tough to get around. He speaks in lineages and hierarchies, and it's sometimes very difficult to get -- but enlightening in retrospect.
Make sure that Matt Jolly is not your TF.
would recommend if student is specifically interested in the subject.
Extremely in depth and challenging, but generally well taught.  Good sections leaders.
Benjamin Buchloh is by far the best lecturer I have encountered across many departments here. Art history brings together many disciplines so no reason everyone shouldn't be taking the class.
Buchloh's lectures are truly fabulous. I can't even begin to express how much I enjoy listening to him lecture. I learn so much every time.
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard!
This is an amazing, low-stress way to learn about the greats of modern art history. Especially consider taking it if Katrin is teaching again. Sections were truly the best I've had in my time at Harvard.
Great material. Buchloh is so esoteric in the best of ways. There's a bit of an initial barrier with the way he lectures, but you get used to it after listening to one. He has such a complex understanding of the artwork, and it's a fascinating period to learn about. Especially if you do the readings, you understand the progression of artwork in that time period
Buchloh is a leader in the field but he definitely does not take teaching the course as a priority. The paper topics and midterm topics are given far too late and it seems like he assigns them as an afterthought. Take this course only if you find him engaging.
Take it!!
Prof. Buchloh is an amazing lecturer and Katrin is an awesome TF!
This course offers great lectures and reading on a fascinating period. The balance between American and European art was good.
Rarely does a class completely change the way you see a subject; this course did exactly that. Before taking this class, I was interested in modern art but had a lot of questions. Why is it that when you see, say, a blank red square, you either think, "This is absolutely terrible, I could make this," or "I like this for some reason, but I have no idea why." In other words, how can modern art even elicit such polarizing and visceral reactions out of us? This class helped answer this question and so many more. The dialogic history between artists and their art is fascinating and will help you understand the questions you may always have had about the progression of art in twentieth century -- it definitely changed the way I see art.
This course is extremely academic but very rewarding. Lectures are sometimes hard to follow, but sections are great at clearing things up.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard and it is a MUST if you are interested in modern art. Prof. Buchloh's lectures are incredibly interesting. Don't be put off by the density of the lectures because you will quickly adjust.
This is an extremely rewarding and interesting course, but it takes at least a few weeks for the unpracticed art historian to grow accustomed to it. If you are willing to put in the time to read some esoteric essays and attend each of the lectures, you will hit your stride in time and end up loving the course. Prof. Buchloh is a wealth of knowledge; Katrin is supportive, encouraging, and provoking. I entered feeling like this class was way too esoteric for me but stuck with it because the subject matter interested me. I am so glad that I did.
This is a really cool course that can really enhance one's understanding of a time period of art that is, to many, very cryptic in nature. Professor Buchloh is a fantastic lecturer and sections were always great. Studying for the midterm and final can feel like a lot of work, but if you put in the time and you are able to form your own, well-reasoned opinions, you will be just fine.
If you are interested in being involved in the contemporary art world in any way, this course is necessary. The material is integral to understanding the foundations of the contemporary art world. This course is also highly useful for anyone who is a casual museum go-er, as the artists covered make up a huge portion of galleries.
Be prepared for lots of big words and big concepts, but if you are genuinely interested, you will get SO much out of this class. Professor Buchloh is a phenomenal scholar and has taught me so much about reading, contextualizing, and discussing artwork. Modern art can be intimidating (and so can Prof Buchloh's vocabulary), but you will walk out of this class with so much to think about and to talk about. The workload is very manageable too!
Professor Buchloh traces the lineages, the dialogic exchanges, occurring between the artists and works of the postwar, and introduces language, concepts, and historical context that are extraordinarily helpful in beginning to study the art of the period.
This is a tremendously valuable opportunity to hear one of the field's leading scholars lecture twice a week. Don't miss this course if you have any interest in the last century of art.
This class is great if you are interested in art history and have some knowledge of it already. If you don't have prior knowledge you may have trouble following some of Buchloh's phrasing or the readings. It's a really great class for those with a strong interest.
This class is fantastic if you have background with or interest in Art History. It's definitely challenging with its combination of jargon-heavy lectures, highly theoretical readings, and often cryptic art covered, but it's extremely rewarding if you have the time and will to put in effort.
Benjamin Buchloh is one of the foremost authorities on modern art.  This is his class on the subject.  It is essential.
excellent class. best HAA course I've taken (none of the others even come close).
What an incredible class. It is very well organized, the material is challenging and interesting, you read many of the most important art history scholars out there, and Buchloh is a very engaging lecturer. There are few opportunities to study art history with someone who has been a personal friend to many of the artists covered. This is it!
This is a wonderful, insightful class. I have no other HAA experience, so my advice might not be interesting to you, but I thought that this class gave a deep account of a period of art that was completely mysterious to me. I highly recommend this class to anyone who is fascinated by art and wants to understand, through the gaze of Benjamin Buchloh, this particular period of art. The success of the class is inextricable from the TF (Trevor Stark), so exercise due caution if the TF is now different.
DON'T TAKE IT! Seriously I cannot believe this got such a high Q score. The first lecture was boring and it never got any better. Too much reading about horrible "art". I put more effort into my papers than the "artists" put into their work. I really feel that people take the class because the professor is well known.
I feel like a much better-educated person after taking this class. I feel more comfortable discussing modern art, and I learned really interesting things. Professor Buchloh, while a great art historian is not a professor who's very willing to get to know students, so I wouldn't take it if you were hoping to get close with a professor.
This is the best class at Harvard, and it would really be a shame to skip it.
This class is not an introductory course to the department so only take it if you have already taken one of the HAA introductory courses.
This was an amazing course and if you're interested in modern art I can highly recommend this course.The lectures and discussions in section are really interesting and the TF was always a great help during office hours. No grade inflation in the course.
Amazinggggggggg class for anyone interested in modern art. However, I think it would have been really challenging to take this class without at least one course of prior art history background.
Don't be intimidated by this class at the start! Trevor is an excellent TF and if you're prepared to think hard and do the readings, you'll get a ton out of this class.
Great class! Fair amount of reading, but definitely worth it!
You have to be dedicated to the somewhat esoteric subject matter of this course, but if you stick with it, the class will open your eyes to a previously inaccessible world of art.
This class is FANTASTIC.  I took it as a pure elective, and now I wish I'd done a secondary in HAA!  I really loved it.  Buchloh is a rock star, and his lectures are always thought-provoking and engaging (and sometimes even funny!).  Trevor is an amazing TF, and section is really helpful in getting us to understand the basic material, since Buchloh's lectures can often be fairly dense.  Lecture and section worked seamlessly together.  There's a lot of reading, but it's totally worth it - fascinating stuff!  I would absolutely recommend this course, even for a person with no background whatsoever in art history.  If you're at all interested in this period in art, take it!
Essential if you are interested in 20th c. art history.
Prof. Buchloh is not for everyone. Some people rave, but I found his lectures dense and often dull. He obviously has incredible command of the subject matter, but the way he expresses himself is often abstruse. Question though: why did Buchloh cut most of the women artists from the syllabus?
Professor Buchloh is an exciting lecturer, the material is fascinating and the analysis is very interesting
This was my first HAA class as a non-concentrator, and it was a fantastic experience. You will feel COMPLETELY lost for the first week or two (especially in section - some HAA and VES kids are completely nuts) but once you figure out the lingo, it's a lot of fun to be in on the joke. Buchloh's lectures (and constant suffix-ization of the English language) are lots of fun and very informative and the papers and exams are very reasonable, and sometimes even a little fun. Even if you're taking this to have something to talk about at cocktail parties, it's highly worth it. Enjoy!
This class is fantastic because professor Buchloh's genius shines out during his lectures. If you don't plan on going to lecture, don't take this class, as they are not only essential, but also what makes this class great. Nevertheless, they are quite dense as professor Buchloh is a very fast-paced and dense speaker. Hence, full attention at all times is necessary. Take this seriously and you will be very rewarded. I learned to see and think about modern art and its connections in space (europe and the US) and time in a whole new way. Integration with the weekly readings also enriches this class quite a bit. I would absolutely recommend this class, and think it is essential to a full HAA curriculum at Harvard, but would definitely suggest that you take it during a semester in which you can dedicate your attention to it. Furthermore, I would not suggest you take this as an intro class. I would have been lost without sufficient art historical background, which really helped me understand what was at stake and the relationship to art of the past and future.
I would recommend this class only if you have taken art history before and KNOW that it is your cup of tea. Art history is, contrary to popular belief, not inherently an "easy" or "interesting" subject.
An amazing and inspirational class! By far one of the best I have taken at Harvard so far. If you are at all interested in art, I highly recommend it. Don't be intimidated, and if you are, take it pass/fail or audit it. It provides you with tools and perspectives that will allow you to think about art more critically and deepens your cultural awareness. You will learn a great deal about modern art and will never look skeptically at a white monochrome canvas again...
Don't be discouraged if you have never taken an Art History class.  But only take if you have genuine interest in the materials.
If you want to know anything about modern art history- take this class
This class was so much fun! Some really interesting and (occasionally bizarre) art; manageable workload; thought-provoking and engaging lectures.
very good - difficult - requires you to already be familiar with, or quickly grasp complex art-historical concepts that are not explicitly taught in class (this is probably a good thing).
Buchloh has a mastery of art that's a real pleasure to experience. This course surveys all the important art from the 40s to the 70s, which will make your occasional museum visits a lot more interesting. These artists come up surprisingly often today, and Buchloh prepares you well to talk about it. The course is easy to access for non-HAA people, and pretty light on work.
It is sometimes difficult to keep on top of the topics covered in this course as they were presented very quickly and were not always given enough depth. That being said, it was great to take a course that covered some less mainstream and more contemporary art movements, and the teaching overall was very good.
The course is tough, but fascinating. Go to office hours--I regret only starting to go halfway through the semester. Prof. Buchloh is a legend and cares very much about his students.
This course is difficult, but Benjamin Buchloh is a renowned art historian. This course also gives its students immense insight into postwar art.
What can I say about Prof. Buchloh? He is one of the most important art critics of the twentieth century, and this course is structured around the period he has written about the most: American and European art, 1945-1975. His lectures coherently follow common threads like memory & trauma, spectacularization of culture, etc throughout the semester, so a bigger picture slowly emerges as the semester moves forward. Kevin is also a brilliant TF, who manages to engage everyone at some level, and he deeply cares about whatever you have to say about any material related to the course. He is also pretty chill, and a great source of advice if you are thinking of a career in the arts/art history.
It's truly an honor to learn from Professor Buchloh, no matter how inscrutable his lectures can be at times. The course materials (i.e. readings, writing assignments, etc.) are superb and provide a solid introduction to post-WWII art. For all HAA concentrators focusing on modernism, this course is a must.
You might not want to take this as your first art history class, but if you are at all interested in modern art, take this class.
Great course! Many of these topics and artists are dense along with the lectures so having a background in art history is very helpful in understanding the procedures and readings that Buchloh discusses.
This is definitely a class worth taking. Go into it with an open mind, and don't tune out Buchloh's complex terminology - it makes perfect sense if you are willing to listen, and is actually really entertaining.
It's extremely interesting and challenges you to push your ideas about art and artistic practices. The essays are challenging but interesting and the papers are difficult to write but the process fulfilling.
Very interesting material, fast-paced course that will give you a great overview of American and European art in the post-war period.
Wonderful class. I looked forward to Prof. Buchloh's lectures, though they could sometimes be a little confusing. Not much work at all and great material to study.
