This is a very good seminar for students interested in western medieval art or the work of Albrecht Durer even if they do not have much prior background in art history.  There are many opportunities for close looking at works of art from the newly renovated Harvard Art Museums.  The weekly readings and writing assignments all work together quite nicely to make the course a cohesive experience.
Professor Koerner is amazing, and the Harvard Fogg collection of prints makes this class unique. It's a great way to understand an amazing artist and his most famous medium.
discussions are arcane, hard to join in.
Even after spending multiple nights doing the readings for this course, it can be hard to articulate what you want to say when looking at a certain work. This course is for people who like to look closely at works of art and present observations to the class. It's a valuable skill to practice and makes you think in new ways. The number of grad students in the course set the bar higher. Overall, if any aspect of this class interests you, do take it! You'll walk away with the understanding of Drer's whole career and that of his contemporaries. Plus, you'll see works in person that most will only see on computer screens. It's crazy how lucky we are to be able to view works of great artists in person.
A seminar class might seem daunting, but Professor Koerner does a wonderful job making the works accessible, and part of the course is reasoning through initial observations, then making conclusions based on the readings and formal analysis that you either do in small groups or as a class. The professor is very encouraging, and not at all intimidating, especially considering the fact that he is one of the experts on this time period. Highly recommend the course, if you are interested in Drer/ the time period. The readings are also very interesting (sometimes quite challenging) but provided a great perspective on the way I view medieval and Renaissance art, and art, in general.
Cool objects in class. Assignments are not difficult per se, but standards are very high in this class. Also, there are a lot of grad students/ students with knowledge in either the area or time period so the bar is set pretty high from the beginning.
