This class is incredibly interesting! Would recommend it to anyone who is at all interested in architecture, or has a particular affinity for Japanese history. It is a great way to understand the impacts culture has on the built form.
If you want a look at some really cool architecture, this is the course for you. Japanese architecture is really interesting and the way it has evolved was awesome to learn about.
Fun field trips, engaging lectures, light course load.
Don't take it unless you are genuinely interested in the material. Not all lectures are as well structured as the first couple.
You will not only learn about architecture, but also many aspects of Japanese culture and ways of thinking.
It is a very niche course, so if you aren't particularly interested in Japan, don't bother taking it. If you are interested in Japan, however, this will be an absolutely incredible course to take. Professor Lippit is an amazing lecturer and an incredibly nice professor, the subject matter is very interesting, and the course isn't too difficult (as long as you study for the midterm and final!). You will have to memorize a lot of images, but then again, I feel like that's how it is for every HAA class.
Kio is a brilliant lecturer and a generous teacher.
Amazing material covered by an incredibly eloquent, knowledgable and kind (visit office hours!) professor.  The material was honestly probably too amazing considering the scope of the class, and demanded a lot of reading to keep up with the ambitious coverage (some of the topics just briefly touched upon during lecture in order to keep pace with the syllabus, though Prof. Lippit looked like he was dying to elaborate).  If you are interested in Japanese history, architectural history, contemporary architecture, or just awesome urban/spatial/spiritual ideas in general, you'll probably really like this class.  Field trips (to the Japanese House at the Boston Children's Museum and Yin Yu Tang House at PEM), special exhibit (The Thinking Hand, curated by Prof. Lippit), and Tange archives added a lot of substance and first-hand experience to the class, though they might have been better organized.  Final and midterm are pretty rigorous, and require you to absorb and memorize a lot of hard information about specific buildings and sites as case studies for larger principles.  Still one of the best classes I've taken.
This class is the ideal non-Western requirement for HAA concentrators. Straightforward lectures with very clear slides, very clear professor, and handy lecture handouts. Weekly readings are light, and the only assignment besides the midterm and final is a 10-page comparison essay. Take this class! You will learn a ton about Japanese architecture and its relation to power, ceremony, tradition, and religion in Japan, in the most painless way possible. Lippit is a fantastic lecturer. Also makes you think about your own field in new ways as a comparison. Took this as a fifth and did not regret it.
This class gives a great overview of various styles within Japanese architecture. Prof Lippit is a great lecturer who is incredibly personable. He is also incredibly knowledgable about the subject.
This course is a really phenomenal introduction to the history of Japan's architecture, covering from the very early years to contemporary.
If you are interested in architecture it is a good course. It can get tedious towards the end of the semester though.
