This is an amazing course for people interested in art and cultural history.
This course offers a truly amazing, one-of-a-kind experience. Professor Connors is wonderful, and the trip to Venice during the spring break was eye-opening. It is incredible how much I learned through this course, from the city's unique standing in architectural history to its legacy in Italian Renaissance paintings. It is by far one of the best (and also my favorite) courses I have taken at Harvard, and I highly recommend it with enthusiasm.
This class appears promising, it has an interesting topic and little assigned work, but although this was not the most difficult class I've taken at Harvard, I have never taken a class that I felt so strongly dismissed, upset and disappointed by. You won't have long essays to worry about, but be prepared to be judged directly against your peers. If you are prepared to take hours out of your life to read unnecessary readings and attend lengthy office hours you'll likely thrive, but if you have a busy schedual and want a class that offers legitimate course requirements you can strive towards, look elsewhere. If you want a class in which discussion and critical thinking are valued, look elsewhere. Professor Connors is clearly very passionate about the subject matter, however if you want to offer anything to discussion that does not fit the narrow agenda he has prepared, you will be utterly dismissed.
Keep notes on what readings you do as you go, that way the final annotated bibliography assignment will be much easier
This class was absolutely fantastic. Professor Connors is very knowledgeable about Venice and everything to do with architecture and the Renaissance. Small class size helped the class get to know each other and the reports on readings were a great way to actually enjoy the material you were learning rather than stressing out over a paper. Overall, i loved Professor Connors approach to teaching as it relied mostly on independent reading from us students and from class discussions on what we had read and saw in the art works we studied. Definitely take it! Also, the trip to Venice is an added bonus!
