This course is pretty boring but if you are interested in Vermeer, you should take it. It is exactly what you make of it. Also not necessary to go to class if you don't want to.
Not a very difficult class, but I also learned virtually nothing. If it had been capped and taught as a seminar as it was intended it might have been worthwhile, but as a 40-person class it was not very good. I took it as an elective hoping to get some understanding of art history, and I don't think i really did.
great senior spring class.  low work load, and you get to look at amazing paintings for 2 hours each week.
In this year's version of the course, it was extremely easy yet extremely rewarding. The old saying still applies: you reap what you sow. There are two assignments and lecture - do well on the two assignments and you're golden. Go to lecture, interact with the course staff, and you'll learn an amazing amount.
The course was solid. Class experience was very much a product of how much effort student put in.
Not too high commitment. THe subject matter can be a bit dry at times but the readings are interesting and very manageable. Hugo picks only very relevants readings and is very reasonable.
Very easy class on a beautiful subject matter. Lectures are a bit unorganized though and you'll have to put in extra work to get the most out of the class.
The class was new the year I took it, and thus needed some tweaking with organization, topics covered, and style (lecture vs. discussion). But I expect in future years these issues will be resolved.
This is a great class! Hugo is a charming and lucid lecturer. It would be easy to blow off the readings and half-ass the papers, but it is worth it to get the most out of a relaxed and interesting elective! The papers can be tricky to write if you are very inexperienced in HAA.
Great class. Only two papers for the whole semester and one lecture per week. Great artwork and Professor Van der Velden is incredibly knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the material.
Although I hate to write a negative evaluation, this class deserves it.  This was the only class I have taken at Harvard that I genuinely felt made me less interested in the subject matter, and less confident in the HAA Department's ability to design and regulate courses.  Unless it is absolutely required that you take the class, I would urge students to avoid this class.
This course is a great introduction to Dutch art.
You won't learn much.
Professor Van der Velden is incredibly knowledgable and kind. He is also quite relaxed. The class is a bit disorganized, but I feel that as the format of the class gets worked out, there will be more discussion, which will make it more enjoyable. The excursion to NYC was also fantastic.
This class is easy and you don't really have to do the readings.  However, i didn't feel like I learned very much and did find the course engaging
Van der Velden is awesome! First seminar I've had in which I'm actually excited to sit back and listen to someone speak for two hours. Readings are minimal and interesting, as is the subject matter itself. VdV does a great job of pulling out themes and genres in Dutch Art.
Course discussion was pretty unfocused and I often didn't coming away feeling like I had learned a lot from seminar meetings.
It's a wonderful course and the time commitment is extremely reasonable. If you want to get a lot out of it, you need to work extra hard to do so though. Professor Van der Velden doesn't force you to participate if you don't want to.
This is a great class.  The material was wonderful, and it was not a huge time commitment.  You get a nice introduction to Dutch Golden Age art.  Hopefully the professor will work on making the class a little more organized.  He is a really nice guy.
It's an easy class, lots of beautiful images and a loose speak-up-anytime class discussion atmosphere. Dr. Van der Velden is friendly but a little of an "absentminded professor" type - but of course, he had reason to be as his daughter was born midway through the course! It's fun and maybe next year he'll get that class trip to Amsterdam arranged.
