This is a wonderful course- one of the best I've taken.  Great for interdisciplinary scholarship.
I would recommend this class without hesitation to colleagues in my department and other departments. For any art historian, it is necessary to have a knowledge of material culture theory. The course pushes art historians to think outside conventional disciplinary boundaries and is excellent as a general methods course for material culture theory.
I would say, "Tired of learning theory in isolation?" "Tired of asking, Yes, but, why does this matter?" This course grounds sociological and anthropological theory back in the material world of things! It's just so nice to use the word "economy" sometimes and have an image of a particular group of people using a particular object with a particular value that you can understand without falling back on a set of universal abstract principles.
I would argue that this class should be a required course for graduate students in the History of Art and Architecture.  It comes closer to speaking to a "world art history" than the established Western canonical approach.  The theories developed in this class will undoubtedly guide my future research.
This is a really unique seminar that does a great job showing how theoretical texts can be put to work as keys to help interpret a wide variety of objects.
Make sure that you LOVE you object...
Do the reading!
This class can be thought of as a fascinating and practical sequel to methods, introducing you to non-traditional and non-art-historical methods.  It also has a strong emphasis on looking at actual works of art and other kinds of objects.  So it's a nice balance of the theoretical and the concrete.
This class has been my favorite since I've been matriculated here. The instructor has high expectations, and in my class, the students responded. Instructor is great at keeping discussions on topic without being aggressive, and she draws out the most salient points from conversation. The theoretical material is challenging, and engaging through the objects from the beginning is really helpful. I think all the art history students should take this, honestly.
It's a huge mistake not to take this course!
Be prepared to read a lot, and to think extremely esoterically.
Very interesting and different from what's usually offered in art history. This is a great opportunity to branch out from your familiar framework/method.
excellent if you are interested in the material and themes of the course
This course makes you think about (art)objects differently. It not only presents you with a body of theory but also helps you to really apply these theories in practice. It is a lot of fun.
somewhat more geared toward modernists, but constructive regardless
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard
It will change the way you think about the subjects of your research for the better.
