HAA18p is fantastic! Professor Lippit is a marvelous lecturer. Every thought is so eloquently phrased and insightful - in lecture, you'll see everyone scribbling frantically trying to write down his every word! He is one of the leading scholars in the field of Japanese art, and his understanding of the Japanese woodblock print is very nuanced. The material itself is fascinating, and the readings are very interesting (and relatively short). I would highly recommend taking this class, regardless of whether you are an HAA concentrator or not!
Professor Lippit gives beautiful lectures -- so eloquent!
Take this class. It'll change the way you look at imagesand the material is awesome.
This is a great course both for students taking their first art history class or for art history concentrators that want a really good class. Professor Lippit is a wonderful lecturer and a very kind person. While it can be hard to meet him outside of his office hours, he tries very hard to accommodate his students. He is a model teacher. Our section TF, Steffani Bennett, is a very warm and knowledgable teacher. She was very flexible with meeting with us for her office hours, and she was quite helpful when I needed help studying or working on my essay for the course. I highly recommend this course. This is my favorite art history course that I've taken and a standard of quality for other courses.
You'll always find something you like in this course. It covers a very interesting time period, in which you see the Japanese visual tradition, its development, western influence, everything.
The material is so fun, and you don't need any background knowledge at all. But be prepared to struggle with memorizing terms and names and slide IDs if Japanese is not a language you are familiar with. But the teaching staff is great, and you'll learn a lot. BEWARE THE FINAL THOUGH. They refused to give us a narrow list of IDs to learn, so we were responsible for memorizing over 300 images. Brutal.
This course had received positive reviews in the past from individuals within the department. It was for this reason I chose to enroll in the course, which was reported to be little work with a great professor and interesting material. I do not know what changed this year, but I personally found the course to be a disappointment. It is a relatively painless way to fulfill the non-western  requirement for HAA. However, I walked away from the course feeling as though I had learned very little, and that much of my time had been wasted. The course may as well have been a gen-ed, with exams more focused on lecture attendance than comprehension of the materials and sections whose purpose I still have yet to discover. The professor and teaching staff, while passionate about the subject, failed to connect with the students. The course seemed like an afterthought. More often than not, I felt the professor and teaching staff were just going through the motions with us, fulfilling their obligation without any genuine interest in us or our connection to the material.
This class offer a comprehensive introduction to Japanese culture and art and broadens the spectrum and curriculum of a student focusing on areas outside of this field.
I loved the materials in the courses. Professor Lippit is awesome. His knowledge in prints constantly amazed me in lectures. The readings are short and enjoyable. The course is not hard, but it is not easy to get a good score unless you know how the HAA department courses work very well. Sections are very helpful in understanding some key components of the course. TF does a wonderful job asking provocative questions, but she may not be the nicest person outside of class.
Professor Lippit is an excellent lecturer, guide, and person to be around.
A great class. Prof. Lippit is very sweet and a great lecturer. He knows how to introduce this art to people who have no prior exposure. Do the readings for section though--don't expect to just skate by on lecture notes. And take advantage of how much time the TF and professor make available to you.
It's a really good class, but make sure to stay on top of the lectures and studying for the exams! There is A LOT of information.
this class is an excellent introduction both to the methods of art history and to the outline of japanese history.
This course was incredibly interesting, and you will definitely achieve a very strong understanding of the Japanese woodblock print tradition after taking this course. Professor Lippit is very well spoken and takes you through a narrative journey of woodblock printing throughout the 18th through early 20th centuries. The prints we saw every lecture were very detailed and beautiful, and all lectures kept me interested and engaged.
This course looks easy, interesting and fun, but it is none of those things.
This course really helps me learn how to look at Japanese woodblock prints.
Lippit is brilliant and a great lecturer, and the woodblock form is beautiful and often fascinating. Lippit is also extremely open and willing to meet with students. This course has a TON of potential.However, DO NOT TAKE THIS PARTICULAR CLASS UNTIL IT IS SERIOUSLY RESTRUCTURED. The exams are 100% memorization of dates and Japanese names, and therefore annoying and frustrating to study for. The structure of the course this year also backloaded all the work to the end of the semester, meaning that we had no idea what grade range we were in when we walked into the final.This course has the potential to be one of the best courses at Harvard. Hopefully next year it will be
If you're interesting in Japan and prints, take the course. You'll learn a lot.
Every lecture in this course is breathtaking! Professor Lippit's lectures are brilliant and the images are beautiful. You will learn so much about learning to analyze images critically on both a general level and also specifically with regards to Japanese prints.
Amazing
If you are interested in studying the history of Japanese prints for a semester, this class is really great. The Professor is nice, approachable, funny, and a great lecturer, and he will really demand that you learn the material. If you're not sure that Japanese prints are really your thing, shop the course to see, but you might enjoy another art history course more.
Course has really beautiful, interesting material, but be prepared to do a lot of memorizing.
This course is great, maybe the best I've taken at Harvard. The professor is so smart and well spoken, after you walk out of every lecture you feel like you've learned a lot. The subject was so much more interesting than I expected that I now feel like I have a new passion. Yurika was a great t.f. who made sections informative and relaxed. A great class, but the exam are tough- a lot of memorization goes into just a few questions, and grading is tough.
Take any course with Yukio Lippit. He is the best.
Prof Lippit is a fantastic lecturer, and the way he presents the art as embedded in socio-political contexts is awesome.
This class is really interesting because you'll learn a lot about something and learn to appreciate something that you didn't know existed or hadn't studied. Prof Lippit is great and interesting in lecture.
Great class with an excellent professor
Professor Lippit makes this material very accessible and interesting. He is a very engaging lecturer and the material studied is so beautiful. Yurika was very organized and very knowledgable about the material. She asked insightful questions and led discussions very well.
