This is the best class I've taken at Harvard: it's team-taught by two phenomenal professors who are enthusiastic, constructive, and open, it allows you to work hands-on with the collections in the Harvard Art Museums and exposes you to other comparable vases from around the world, it simultaneously teaches about vases as historical, art-historical, and collectable objects, and it is a small seminar in which you get a lot of attention and that provides the freedom to take risks and learn not only a lot about vases, but also how to think about them in new and exciting ways.  I honestly cannot put into words how amazing this class is.
This course was amazing!!! The professors are brilliant and personable (rare, at Harvard) and extremely devoted to their students. You should take this course if you a) are interested in piecing together details of the everyday world of the Ancient Greeks, b) love using visual analysis to study foreign cultures, and/or c) like ceramics and looking at intricate ancient objects. Funny things I learned about in the course: the drunken revelry of satyrs, phallic humor in the Greek imagery, donkey-head mugs that turn the drinker's face into that of a donkey, ... and so much more. Oh, and I did I mention that you get to hold the 2500 yr old vases? As in, with your hands???
This is one of the most interesting and engaging HAA courses I have taken in my four years at the College. What makes this course exceptional is the first-hand access students in the seminar have to Greek vases and other related objects. Definitely take this course if you can!
This class offers an incredible opportunity to engage with art objects that are thousands of years old, and to do so up close and personally. We had vessels brought out to look at, touch, and examine almost every class. The course also really encourages you to analyze your own assumptions and ways of thinking about a past culture and they way in which they chose to present themselves through these objects.
