Will likely be better in the future once a discussion section is added. This year, there was no point in taking notes because they had no impact on the future. Simply listening to the lectures (Prof. Connors is incredibly knowledgeable) was enjoyable, but it was not a rigorous course.
This course provides a great focus on architectural history, something which many other courses in the HAA department lack.  You'll view other artistic mediums of ancient Rome like drawings, but taking a look at architectural theories behind buildings is a strength of this course.
You should take this class if you want to learn--don't do the professor a disservice and take it because you think it's easy. His approach to work and learning is great. Also, expect a challenge in terms of how you write. He's picky about wording, and it's a good learning experience but if you don't care it could be frustrating.
First time the course was offered, so a bit disorganized.  Prof. Connors is very chill, if a bit distant, and the material was interesting.  Make of this class what you will.
Definitely take this course. Connors is passionate about the material and the workload is VERY reasonable.
This is a fantastically interesting course taught by someone who really knows what he is talking about.  Take it.
While this course is somewhat unorganized in terms of what is required, when assignments are due, and expectations for exams, Professor Connors is a great lecturer and the subject matter is quite interesting. You should at least had some experience or interest in Rome and art history for this course, however, because it covers a huge amount of matierial, often not in depth, and over a long time span.
Professor Connors is an amazing professor who really knows his stuff, and makes everyone equally excited about the material. Rome is incredibly beautiful which a rich past, but the layers of history can seem daunting at times. But, Connors does a great job of making it clear and understandable. There is weekly work, but the assignments are really fun and interesting!
Prof Connors loves what he teaches which comes off in all his lectures. He is genuinely excited about the art history of Rome and wants everyone to share his fondness of it. There were many assignments which allowed for improvement and they were different in style than any written assignments in other classes. I would definitely recommend the class because you get exposure to about 2000 years of Roman art and architecture!! si tratta di una grande classe!
Professor Connors is an amazing wealth of knowledge and you would be very lucky to take a class with him. His lectures are interesting and engaging. To get the most out of it, review the slide presentations after each class and go to his office hours. I wish I had done more of this.
The subject matter is interesting, but the assignments are confusing and disjointed, often involving a lot of knowledge not taught in the class. The workload is not difficult, but this class ultimately tried to tackle too much and in trying to give too much, I feel I received nothing from this class. The subject is very interesting, but I feel I did not gain anything from this class. This was definitely a 'facebook class' in that you look at everyones screens and no one is taking any notes which is a disheartening sight in a class that is only an hour long.
Great class, but harder than advertised.
This class is a great, generally laid back way to fulfill the A and I GenEd requirement.
This is probably a little high level for those who want to take an intro architecture class. The way it was taught required a lot of self-direction and there was a lot of material to remember for exams.
Professor Connors is incredible! He is really an expert on the subject matter and is a fantastic lecturer. His passion for the material is contagious - I looked forward to coming to this class every day and can't believe how much Roman architectural history I learned in a single semester. Course material is very accessible, even if you've never taken a course on art history before. This class pushed me out of my comfort zone in a great way, and I'm so glad I took it. 10/10
Professor Connors is excellent. The course is a little disorganized, but it was incredibly enjoyable.
This is a great class, comprehensive history of Rome. Professor knows what he's talking about and is very engaging and personable, as well as reasonable. He encourages students to do extra reading without demanding it since he knows we all have a lot going on, but most of us went to extra sections and did extra reading anyway since it was so interesting. You will learn a lot about Rome and want to visit after this class :)
This is exactly what a college class should be like- where you worry less about your grade and more about actually learning about the subjects you find most interesting. It is structured in a way that generates genuine enthusiasm. Professor Connors is also the most enthusiastic professor I had had thus far.
This course would have been truly wonderful if I had taken it pass/fail. The way grading worked, however, was extremely stressful, as it was never clear what mattered or where one stood. The material was always excellent, the workload was usually moderate (although with some very sharp peaks), and I learned a lot about a very interesting subject. If you don't mind getting a B+ or taking this pass/fail, I would highly recommend it. Otherwise, prepare at least for more work than you would have thought and a degree of uncertainty about your performance.
