gough is a great professor and the subject matter covers a wonderful range of modern art- if you don't like one particular time period, you will soon move onto another. provides a good opportunity to learn the basics of modern art, but also presented in a slightly different way. gough is a very effective lecturer and such a cool woman. take this class!!!!
This is not by any means an easy class. There are three papers and a final. The visits to museums take up a lot of time too. However, coming into the class having never taken an art history class, I learned a lot, and I'm really happy I took it. If you want to learn a lot about modern art, then you should take it too.
I've taken several courses in the HAA department, and so far this has been by far the best--the least mired in the Harvard art historical bias.
This class was fantastic. Never having taken an HAA class before, I essentially took the course because I love visiting art museums and wanted to learn how to talk intelligently about what I'm looking at. Having entered the class with zero knowledge on this front, I can now say I really understand the century-long trajectory of modernist art and how different movements fit into it. Out of an overwhelming mass of material, the course leaders chose a representative, fascinating selection of paintings and movements, which really allow you to understand how each influenced the next. The class isn't easy by any means - there are three essays which require a good deal of research, the final exam isn't a piece of cake, and the readings can be dense and theoretical - but if you're willing to put in the work you'll just get so much out of it. Professor Gough and Trevor are both enthusiastic and extremely knowledgeable and it was a pleasure to learn from both.
If you're looking for a chill class where you want to look at modern art, this isn't it. This class is very competitive. It's hard to get a word in in lecture, since it is such a big class. Yet, you are still expected to participate.
This course is great for all. Professor Gough works hard to make the class of benefit for the first time student and the concentrator on his/her last credit. It is the perfect blend of survey and specific, providing great insights into modernism as a collective movement while allowing students the opportunity to study individual artists.
It's really well-taught and both Gough and Stark have tremendous enthusiasm for the material. I would take it again if I could.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. Not the easiest but definitely the most rewarding class I've taken in my 3.5 years.
This course was truly fantastic! Professor Gough is so insightful and a genius. Trevor is also very intelligent and helps you thoroughly. It is the best course that I've taken at Harvard so far, and I strongly recommend anyone considering this course to take it. It will change your life.
Great survey course of modern art, lots of readings, good introduction into this time period.
This course is absolutely worth taking for any student with the faintest interest in European modernist art merely for Professor Gough's lectures, which are brilliant, fascinating, complex, and often deeply humorousfar and away the best I've had at Harvard. The readings were wonderful, and Trevor really helped to make complicated and difficult material accessible in sections. We also got to go on several site visits to the MFA, the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, and the Walter Gropius House. The site visits were a great chance to engage physically with works of art, and were a lot of fun for me, although they might be a hassle for someone less excited about the subject matter. I will say that the readings are manageable but dense, difficult, and sometimes lengthy. The work is absolutely worth it, however, because the readings are fascinating, and many are very readable, even funny. The assigned texts were more carefully selected than those in many Harvard classes. Nothing is assigned needlessly, and the chosen readings are generally well-written, in addition to being examples of scholarship of the first rate. It's also worth noting that the lectures really benefit from deep absorption in the material through active reading.
A great introduction to the canon, ideologies, and criticisms of modern art. Professor Gough is a pleasure to watch lecture, and Trevor can make even the most complicated concept seem simple.
The material for this class is excellent. Be ready for some good lectures and some weaker ones.
I know that many people enjoyed this course but I personally was not a huge fan of it.  I did not find Professor Gough's lectures particularly compelling even though I thought that I liked modern art.  I did really like the section component of the class and though Trevor was great.  I enjoyed the material in the first half of the course a lot more than the second half.
This is a great class, especially if you've learned little about the progression of Modernism in European art. Earlier classes I had taken had covered a lot of the material of the class, so for me it was really about reinforcing my knowledge of the artists and practices involved, and I now feel very confident in my understanding. I also really appreciated the format of the class, where we could ask Professor Gough questions toward the end of the lecture. Sackler room 318 is a bit of a nightmare, though.
This class does a good job of covering the major movements in modern art and for that reason I would recommend taking it.  The papers were challenging but definitely a good exercise in art historical writing.  The class is definitely challenging, so if you are looking for an easy class this is not one.
This is a great class-- you will learn a lot about a variety of artists and artistic movements in just one semester.
It's a lot of work, but so worth it. You will learn a huge amount.
This is a fantastic class! Definitely a fair amount of work (three 7-page essays and a final exam, as well as lengthy readings), but certainly worth it. Trevor (the TF) is fabulous, and Professor Gough is a great lecturer. She is very clear and down to earth, which is refreshing in an art history course. I highly recommend!
Don't worry about understanding all of the readings, but pay attention in section and don't miss lectures!
This is the best class that I have taken so far at Harvard. Professor Gough is incredible and because the lectures are smaller (30 people) she gets to know each student a lot more personally and it is a more informal atmosphere in lecture which I enjoy. The field trips we took with her were amazing - it was fantastic to be able to see the work we were studying with her first hand and have her explain them. It is important to stay up to date with the readings, but they are in general not too dense so it's not too tedious. If you have any interest in Art History, particularly modern art, take this course!!
It's a lot of work, but the material is fascinating and the teaching staff is great. Definitely a must for HAA concentrators. Gough is a great lecturer.
