One of the best courses I've ever taken. Challenging and engaging syllabus covering everything from Weimar constitutional theory to the art of medieval sects to the origins of monotheism. Engaging with Schmitt, a frighteningly smart Nazi, will challenge your preconceptions and open your mind. Profs Koerner and Feldman are obviously brilliant, but more importantly, they actually care a lot about the seminar and are genuinely interested in the class discussions. Wait until senior year or graduate school to take it if you want to get the most out. You went to Harvard for stuff like this.
This is the most impactful course that I have taken as an undergraduate. The professors are the most engaged and engaging, the material is the most challenging/stimulating, and the other students are the most voracious. We challenged each other and reached weekly reached conclusions far beyond my reading. The syllabus and the course experience were both uniquely enriching, and I learned to ask the types of questions that I will carry out through the rest of my academic experience. Feldman and Koerner always did as much homework as we did-- sometimes Feldman would come to class talking about the hours he spent in Widener searching for materials to translate (from ancient Hebrew!) for the course. If you can take this class, take it; no questions asked. It is a chance to learn from two of the most powerful minds at the University with incredible, diverse peers. Also, the way that the class mixes methodology-- the legal and the art historical-- is challenging, tough,  demanding but ultimately an experience that is rewarding, risky, and rare. Dive headfirst into the course and the readings and you'll unearth a bounty of riches.
One of the best academic experiences I've hada seminar with Prof. Koerner and Prof. Feldman is like running with Lebron James and Steph Curry.  Try to get into this course at all costs!
Brilliant professors whose interaction and different backgrounds make this class very exciting.
One of the very best courses I've ever had, the discussion was amazing thanks to the great selection of readings and an excellent way of leading the conversation by both of the teachers. The group had a wonderful dynamic, and the conversations seemed pleasurable and inspiring for everyone.
