This is a good class if you're interested in learning about and writing about 18th-century French art.  Establishing connections with other periods of art history is not very much encouraged.
This class was a great seminar course on art history. Unlike introductory or lecture courses, you don't have to memorize a lot, and in fact, you may not learn that much specific information about works or artists, since you are never tested on it. But what you do gain is an increased ability to look critically at works, and a lot of knowledge about the types of changes, historical, cultural, artistic, that were going on during this time period, and how certain artists fit into these changes.
it's a pretty intimate experience, so take this class if you're really eager to be engaged with the other people in the class (and the professor) every week, and if you are really ready to attend to the readings and the assignments in a deep way.
Very delightful class for those who enjoy 18th century art. Professor Lajer-Brucharth is brilliant and eloquent, the readings are manageable, and one-half of class time is spent looking closely at artworks.
If you have the slightest intention of taking this course, but are wondering whether or not it's adequate for you, DO TAKE IT right away. This course will definitely be one of the defining experiences of your undergraduate life with hands-on examination of artworks each week, in addition to a meticulous paper-writing process that culminates in a class-wide mini-symposium. However, beware! For you to benefit from this course as much as possible, you have to be willing to put in a lot of effort & work, but this will not go unnoticed by Professor Lajer-Burcharth. Even though she is an iconic historian in the field of 18/19th century French art and probably would easily get away by just "teaching" the course, she's incredibly involved with her students, and pays great attention to every single participant's words during the seminar. If you have the least bit of interest in art history, it is likely that this course will turn it into a passion, and if you're already passionate about it, Prof. Lajer-Burcharth will become an inspiring role-model for you.
This is a great course taught by a really wonderful professor. Take this if you're interested in 18th century French art!
If you aren't interested in at least a few of the artists covered, the class will be a bit of a chore; each artist is approached rather intensely, which can become tedious if you're not engaged by their personalities/works.
The professor is very smart and articulate and easy to listen to, and thus the opportunity to take class with her is a valuable one that shouldn't be passed up. I did find the course quite challenging though in terms of the level of intellectual engagement that was expected. So I would not enter into it lightly.
Professor Lajer-Burcharth strikes a fine balance between involved and felicitous readings of specific works of art, and investigating the complex inter-relationships between art and its wider historical/political context. The emphasis on engaging with the materiality of artworks was excellent. As a discussion facilitator Prof Lajer-Burcharth was encouraging and attentive, but also exhibited inspiring and challenging depths of expertise.
This course will be fascinating and most meaningful if you not only have a specific interest in the subject matter but also some general background/context in 18th c. French art history.
This class is really a graduate class in terms of who enrolls, and the level of sophistication in discussion, the blog forum, papers, presentations, etc., though not necessarily in the amount of work and writing it demands of you. But, undergraduates should really be aware that it is not an introduction to eighteenth-century art - it is a graduate course on scholarship of eighteenth century art & culture.
