You learn so much! The lectures are a little disorganized, but it didn't get in my way much
You will learn a lot. Cummins is very approachable and enthusiastic about the course. Aztec and Incan art will force you to see and think in different ways (especially for those who focus on Western art). It's entirely new and a very exciting field!
I adored this class! Professor Cummins is so engaging in lecture. His clear love for the material is contagious! I looked forward to going to lecture every Tuesday and Thursday, I would really recommend this class to anyone, its a great way to get out of the western bubble of art and architecture!
If you do your work, you'll be completely fine regardless of background knowledge on the subject. Lectures are enjoyable; Tom is quite funny and lively - a happy energy. Class can be a bit boring if sections fail to generate enthusiasm.
This class is wonderful! Tom Cummins' enthusiasm for the Inca and Aztec is absolutely contagious. You leave with an incredibly deep understanding of a completely foreign culture that enables you to see the world in different ways. The class completely changes the way you see the world around you by learning how these civilizations once lived.
Have fun!
This is majorly important material, presented in a very compelling and clear way - great introduction to the topic.
I enjoyed all the lectures and found the topics covered fascinating.
This is one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard. Professor Cummins is brilliant and so genuinely excited about the subject matter. You learn so much about really interesting cultures just by listening to him speak. His lectures are cinematic. You will genuinely enjoy going to class. Definitely take it!
Material is interesting, course is not. You'll learn a lot about Aztec/Incan art in a totally unstructured, unclear environment where few people care and no one (not even prof.) has done readings. Great for fulfilling your non-Western HAA requirement, terrible for growing as a student or an academic. But if you just want to take a class with like literally no work or assignments or feedback where you fall asleep for an hour twice a week, I guess this is the one.
it was a super cool topic that i never would have learned about otherwise
I have already recommended this class but also Tom Cummins' lectures in general. I think that he has a multivalent way of looking at objects--something that appeals to students in many fields.
Go to lecture - it is worth it.
It's a shame that more people don't know about the fascinating pre-Columbian cultures of the Americas.  We know everything about European art history, but so little about non-"Western" traditions.  It's not just cave-man stuff, or human sacrifice.  These were very interesting, complex cultures with amazing creative scope.  So... take the class, and enjoy it.
-the course was engaging-the concepts were challenging-the professor was stimulating, fascinating-the material was unbelievable-it was a rewarding experience
It is a very interesting class for people interested in pre-colombian cultures or art and architecture. Probably a good was to satisfy Lit B requirement
Very interesting!  Loved the lectures
Painless course! Lectures tend to wander a little, reading's too extensive and not all need to be read, sometimes ideas are a little hard to grasp.
This class is very interesting and a fascinating non-Western course option, so you are introduced to societies whose artistic production is integral to the functioning of their political and social systems. It's a fantastic choice if you sometimes feel that art can get too removed from most of the population and interacts only with an intellectual elite. There is a ridiculous amount of readings, but generally you can skim them and should make sure to form study groups for exams (and shouldn't let the number of readings keep you from taking the course).
Probably the worst class I have taken at Harvard.
Cummins really know his stuff and I find that the subject matter is very interesting. If you are not fully interested then maybe it could become boring but if you are then it's a lot of fun.
This class is really fascinating and has a good balance of work.  For HAA concentrators or secondary field concentrators, it is an awesome way to fulfill upper level and/or period requirements.
I would recommend taking it Pass/Fail if you aren't an HAA concentrator.  Inca and Aztec art is really interesting but there is a lot to learn if you are just taking it as an elective.
It's very interesting, but be sure you can attend all of the lectures
Great class. Very interesting and low workload
If you;re interested in the Inca or the Aztec, this can be a fun course. Sections are very cool; they're in the Peabody Museum and you get to see so many cool originals, like quipus and old manuscripts housed in the Tozzer. Lectures can drag on, and far more readings are assigned than necessary, but these are small prices to pay for the knowledge you gain and the excellent experience in section, as well as the chance to hear a renowned scholar speak twice a week.
I would highly recommend this course. The subject matter is a little bit esoteric and probably not appealing to most, but the class really incorporates ways of looking at and thinking about the objects and cultures presented that are profound and interesting, mainly because they are so different from modern cultures (and interpretations). The reading load is heavy.
There is an unbelievable amount of reading required for this course.
This class is really great if youre into both anthropology and art history, it's an interesting mix of both.  It might not be the ideal class for someone who's just taking one art history class to try out the department, but for someone who really enjoys art history or is a concentrator it's worth it.
Great way to fulfill non-Western art history course requirement.
Professor Cummins is a very enthusiastic lecturer, and the opportunity to handle artifacts in section is great. I found the lectures at the beginning somewhat hard to follow though--you might want to go in with a basic understanding of Aztec history and religion to avoid confusion. Also, you might want to reconsider if you're just taking the class out of a vague sense that it might awaken some interest in you, like I did; it covers the material in a lot of depth for someone who does not have a specific interest in it.
It is a very interesting subject, however, the lecture component of the class is very disorganized, so be prepared.
Professor Cummins is one of the best lecturers in HAA, and I thoroughly recommend this class to anyone interested in the subject matter.
It's interesting but they could do a better job with making the subject matter more appealing.
The content is interesting as are the lectures, but there is an overwhelming amount of reading.
Prof. Cummins has organized stunning lectures and he will amaze you with the insight he has into the material.  This is the kind of course for which one comes to Harvard.
This course is a great introduction to the art and architecture of two fascinating cultures.  Cummins is incredibly knowledgeable in his field, and generates a real enthusiasm for the material.  Sections working with the Peabody Museum collection are a huge bonus.  Stay on top of your reading if you can, because you will get more out of the class if you do.
If you want to remember one class ten years after graduating, this will be it.
a lot of reading but worth it!
This class offers a valuable opportunity to closely study the art of two great empires whose artistic achievements are often overlooked or underrated. The teaching staff is good and you'll get exposure, both in lecture slides and through firsthand access in section, to some great works of art.
