This was my favorite class this semester. First of all, Prof. Kim's enthusiasm for the subject is really infectious. She clearly loves what she studies, and that comes through so strongly in her lectures. At the same time, she brings a great deal of rigor and theory to her analysis of pieces. If you are worried about taking on a class with unfamiliar material, rest assured that there is NO background required in either HAA or South/Southeast Asian religion/culture/history. I came in with no background on South/Southeast Asian art and am coming out feeling confident in my ability to approach objects from the region from various periods and religionsthe last time I went to a museum, I made sure to go to the Indian art gallery because I was so excited to see material related to this course! We cover a LOT of material, but Prof. Kim is really good at drawing connections across time and space so that things are not overwhelming and old material is being constantly refreshed. One thing that really interested me was the fact that we talked about the politics of scholarship, looking at how scholarly debates (such as whether Buddhist iconic art arose as a result of Greek influence or not) are embedded in imperialism. A super fascinating topic! I am so glad I took this class and feel like I learned so much and that my eyes were opened to a subject about which I knew almost nothing.
Absolutely loved this class. I was initially worried about taking it because I had no prior knowledge in Art history but Professor Kim is such an amazing teacher. Definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
This course was one of the best experiences of my four years at Harvard. Prof. Kim is an incredible lecturer and a masterful storyteller. I literally left a job interview early because I did not want to miss a single one of her lectures. The course also features fantastic local museum visits and takes full advantage of Harvard's amazing art collection. I cannot believe how much I learned in a single semester. If you have even the slightest interest in art history or this region of the world, you MUST take this course -- Prof. Kim will leave you in awe of the artistic achievements of South and Southeast Asia. Cannot say enough great things about this class -- it is a hidden gem of the department!
