You will enjoy the class. The material is very engaging.
I absolutely loved this course! The professor is amazing, and you really get to learn a lot about Michelangelo
If you have never before studied art history, this class may be difficult at first. However, for concentrators or students pursuing a secondary in HAA, this class is definitely worth taking. This class is unique in that it analyzes primarily one artist, and other artists comparatively. The focused subject material engages students to think more critically and engage with all aspects of Michelangelo's life and work.
If you like Michelangelo, you will like this course. There's a ton of seminar style discussion, so bring your thoughts to discuss. Although there will not be any tests to make sure you've done the reading, there's really no point in taking this class if you're not doing the readings.
Overall, I enjoyed this course. It can be taken as your first art history course, but a general overview of Renaissance art and/or a survey art history course would be recommended so that you'll be familiar with the types of analyses you'll see. The course topics each week are interesting, and the readings are generally good examples of scholarship. The assignments are not particularly difficult as they lead up to a research project for a term paper. Prof. Maratsos is a good teacher; she's friendly, approachable, and tries to accommodate students meeting with her or asking questions. The only issues I had with the class were that 1. you could end up having to do three assignments (two short essays and a presentation) in a smaller window of time than other students and 2. the presentations by students tended to take away a significant amount of class time away from the week's materials.
The instructor had time for students, and is interested in them. She gives really good feedback so you improve in this class. The class material is fun, there is lots of class discussion and the students really learn from each other too. The field trips are a  highlight. You can make it as hard as you want--if you are a grad student you can still take this.
This was a fantastic class - engaging readings, a phenomenal teacher, and a very manageable workload. The material itself is fascinating - Michelangelo is one of the most well-documented artists in history, but he still feels like an enigma today. Analyzing and discussing his sculpture, architecture, drawings, and poetry was very fruitful.Furthermore, Professor Maratsos is great at facilitating discussion. It's clear that she wants to get to know her students (she learned all of our names by the second class - can you name another professor who does this?) and has a true passion for teaching. I'm so glad she joined the department this year and hope she stays for the years to come!! To conclude, I highly recommend this course for HAA concentrators. Non-HAA-ers should also consider this if they have any interest in Michelangelo, sculpture, the Renaissance, or art. Basically, (almost) everyone should consider this class.
This is a difficult class because mostly HAA concentrators took it. The professor is super interesting and great, but be prepared to sit through a lot of slides.
