This course requires more reading than most courses at this level, which generates ideas and discussions.
This is an eye-opening experience through which you explore the most interesting issues concerning Islamic art.
The best course I took this semester. I got from this course not only a greater understanding and appreciation of Islamic art but also a sharper set of critical skills that can be applied to the discipline of art history more broadly. This class is an opportunity to think critically about Islamic art (and the historiography around it) with one of the leading scholars in the field. That said, prospective students should keep in mind that the workload is not inconsiderable, with a significant amount of reading to do each week. It's really not worth taking the class if you can't commit to putting all the work inall of the class is conversation engaging with the readings, so you certainly can't skate by without doing them and doing them thoughtfully. Additionally, while I found my final project incredibly rewarding (and something that, in the end, I am quite proud of), it necessitated a huge level of research, working through non-starter ideas, etc. So students should not go into the class thinking that they can leave these projects for the last minute and just wing it. That said, Prof. Roxburgh was very generous with his time in supporting students with questions and concerns about these projectstake advantage of this.
Professor Roxburgh is an expert in his field, and this little-studied material should be appreciated. This course exposes you to a range of visual and textual material from the Persian, Indian, and Ottoman lands. Its excellent if you want to learn more about the history of culture of Iran. The sections were a little free-form, and the readings are very heavy, but there is only one final assignment!
The class allows students to acquire knowledge in this field, enabling them to contribute to discussions on that highly interesting topic, that is often misrepresented in writing and speech.
