Take this class!! Excellent lectures, interesting topics, approachable readings.
Lectures are really fun.  Though it can be easy to feel like you can miss one once in a while, they really are important to the class.
This course is incredible! Professor Fehrenbach is one of the leading Leonardo scholars in the world and really puts his all into teaching this course.
Leonardo will blow your mind. Take this incredible course!
Professor Fehrenbach was an engaging lecturer and the class's content was very interesting. Leonardo is a fascinating artist for those interested in early modern art and science.
This course provides a great summary of Leonardo's life and work. No background is necessary and the amount of reading is very manageable. Fehrenbach is super passionate about this course and I looked forward to his lectures every week.
The class is a good HAA course. At times i wish i had started with a lower level course that would be a better introduction to the subject as a whole. The lecture style, if maintained, can become tedious at times.
Leonardo is fascinating, and Prof. Fehrenbach is a super knowledgeable Leonardo scholar. He is willing to meet individually to discuss topics of interest. It is an interesting interdisciplinary look at Leonardo's achievements in art and science. It's a good way to fulfill HAA distribution requirements. But if you aren't super interested in the Renaissance, the premodern era, or art history, you might find it dry.
It's interesting stuff. Leonardo da Vinci was a fascinating man. Professor Fehrenbach is extremely intelligent and great resource for this subject matter. And so long as Eva is your TF you will be fine.
I would tell students familiar with Prof. Fehrenbach to use their judgment when choosing to take this course.
Attend the lectures and take copious notes.
Learn about the real Leonardo--beyond the idealized version usually taught.
Lectures are difficult to follow, but the material makes up for it.
I took this course because I thought LDV would be a really interesting person to study, and it was interesting to have a general survey of his life's work. However, I probably won't recommend this course because of the disorder of the lectures and the fact that I was never sure what I needed to know to make a good grade.
it's a little bit difficult to follow, but section will force you to put in the effort and you will do well in the class.
The class is interesting if you supplement the lectures with your own reading.  The lectures can be quite confusing and all over the place, but with supplementary reading (Kemp) and section, it can turn out to be quite interesting.
Have a knowledge of art history.
Never take a class with Professor Fehrenbach.
Professor Fehrenbach is leaving, but if he ever comes back to teach for a semester, you must take anything he offers.
Surprisingly fascinating, Marisa is a great t.f. and the professor is very sweet and knowledgeable.
This was a great class for anyone interested in diving deeper into art history or improve their writing skills. The lectures are fantastic. They are full of interesting information and allowed me to look at Leonardo's life in many different ways.
This course is a great HAA elective if you're interested in Leonardo Da Vinci, but the grading this semester was much harder than I thought it would be. If I had known that they would grade our exams and papers so hard I probably wouldn't have taken it.
This course is a great basic HAA course that both teaches how to look at images in general and also helps students understand how revolutionary Leonardo's work was.
This class was the first art history course I took at Harvard. It's great that it counted for my concentration, but it's also wonderful in and of itself as an elective for anyone even remotely interested in art history. The readings were fine, but almost always unnecessary for class, as Fehrenbach gives longwinded, detailed, interesting lectures that need no background information, usually. Sometimes more of a familiarity with Renaissance artists or authors might have been helpful, but not really needed. Section with Marisa with great - she's friendly, engaging, casual and committed. She's clearly passionate and knowledgeable about the topic, though, so don't try to slack off or appear uninterested, as that's likely to annoy her.  The work is not extremely difficult or time consuming, but even the shorter papers really showed me that I like art history, and like writing art analyses!
If you are not a HAA person the assignments for the class can seem a bit out of one's comfort zone. However the class was interesting.
very interesting! I am a government concentrator and really enjoyed this class
Professor Fehrenbach's teaching style is very accessible, and I actually enjoyed going to both lecture and section.  I took this class as a concentration requirement, never actually thinking I would end up taking an interest in Leonardo da Vinci, and the course turned into my favorite by the end of the semester.  The material combines, in a very engaging way, the study of art with that of science, and could be appealing to a wide variety of people.  Also, the atmosphere was generally really relaxed and pleasant to be in.
If you're interested in learning about a topic that has been so widely mythicized and discussed but are looking for absolutely brilliant new and clear insight into the paintings and works, definitely take this class. You will learn so much new and amazing material.
It's a good art history class about one of the best artists of all time.
Professor Fehrenbach was great, and it was fun to hear lectures from one of the world's experts on Leonardo da Vinci. If you like Leonardo, this is a very interesting and not too demanding class.
This course is ideal for students who are passionate about Leonardo. Not the Leonardo in The Da Vinci Code or the Leonardo in popular culture, but the real Leonardo. Though Fehrenbach attempts to tie in the mythic perception of Leonardo so popular today, this course is heavily based in the nitty gritty reality of Leonardo's life. Lots of attention is paid to his notebooks and scientific studies, as opposed to his paintings. If you want to learn about who Leonardo was and understand his many complex theories, this is a great course. If, however, you are looking for a lighter art history course, I would recommend looking elsewhere. This is a class for HAA concentrators.
If you are into HAA then you will probably love this course. Personally, I got bored of studying one person this much in depth but I can totally understand how it appeals more to people that have a greater interest in art.
Unfortunately Professor Fehrenbach is leaving, otherwise I would highly recommend this course.  He is a virtuoso lecturer, always engaging (using key visuals to pack a punch to the points he makes) and always entertaining.  I would highly recommend this course.
It's great--- you'll learn a lot that is seemingly unrelated to Leonardo.
This class rocks. I have never taken an HAA class before and this was awesome. Made me seriously question my concentration selection (I'm Hist and Lit).
This class was very interesting, and I learned a lot. However, future students might want to make sure that they are really interested in the more esoteric aspects of an art history class.
