This course is amazing! You will find yourself wanting to put in extra time and effort because Megan and the TF's generate so much enthusiasm. But be wary of this fact- prepare to devote a lot of time to learning the digital software and constructing models.
This course is a wonderful beginning to design thinking and making. Megan and the TFs are unparalleled instructors with a wealth of architectural knowledge.
Don't be dissuaded, take this course. It will be a challenge like no other, there will be many long nights, but the rewards are infinite. If you are willing, persistent, and eager to learn, then this is for you. It will take up a lot of your time, but only if you let it. Pacing is key. This class is like learning a new language, learning and applying a series of techniques to develop your hand at making. You will love Megan and we were fortunate to have had a great TF team to serve as her complements. They will help you grow! They are a huge resource! Try to get off to a good start, best not to fall behind early, it will roll over. You will only succeed if this is something you want to do, are willing to make sacrifices for. Keep that in mind.
This class is ABSOLUTELY INCREDIBLE. It is unbelievable to think about the progress you make and everything you learn throughout the course of the semester. You start (probably) scared to draw a line in Rhino (the 3D modeling software that we use) to then having an unprecedented literacy using the various software and producing ideas you never could have thought you could do before this course. Megan is the nicest and most dedicated and amazing professor. She is so invested in your work and the class and truly becomes a mentor. The way she helps you progress and transform is remarkable, giving our creative ideas architectural agency, support, and feedback. Carly, Sofia, and Justin (the TAs) are also absolutely amazing, so helpful, understanding, nice, and provide a wealth of knowledge to help you throughout the course. They are so talented and the nicest people. You learn so much about the development of conceptual ideas in all different respects, and concretizing these ideas... Moving from an initial idea, representing it three dimensionally and digitally, and then actually modeling it in the real world. You become more fluent how to verbally express your ideas about your work through presentations in front of classmates, Megan and the TAs, and invited jury. This class dominated my entire semester- be prepared to spend hours and hours and hours of work for this class, but the work definitely pays off in the end, as you learn so much through the process and develop models that you can be proud to call your own. Time management of projects is key in this class, because everything is time consuming. Many late nights (and mornings) were spent at the GSD, but looking back, it is all part of the studio experience, and you become close with your classmates and all of the creatives and creative energy flowing around you. Cherish these moments, as a class this special and amazing is truly hard to find. I recommend it 100%. It truly is a class that transforms you, and being able to have a close relationship with an incredible professor like Megan is so special. best class ever that you can take at Harvard :)
Here everything is so well organized for your to explore - it really shows you the world of architecture.
This course is actually not that hard if you just make it your priority. It's one of those ones where thinking a lot about each assignment is super fulfilling and makes you really proud of yourself but not doing so makes you feel shitty all the time because there are so many presentations and you don't want to be unprepared for them. DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE IF YOU ARE TAKING 5 CLASSES.
For students with an interest, but minimal background in design, this course provides a thorough framework on which to build, and does a great job of introducing students to a variety of design-based thinking procedures.
This class is an absolute gem and has definitely been one of my favorites! I definitely recommend taking it. Although I was very intimidated at first (having no prior knowledge or experience in design or architecture), I took it and had nothing to worry about. The course is designed for beginners and factors in that most of the students do not have any experience in CAD. This class does take a lot of time (though it is totally worth it), so I think it is definitely important to have an interest in the subject!!Megan, Sofia, and Justin are all incredibly knowledgeable, caring, and funny. Their feedback is all so insightful, and I found myself absorbing and learning about architectural concepts, language, and skills just by listening to them.  Also, since it is such a small class (with many late nights spent together in the GSD), you really get to know the other students!
This is one of a select number of classes where it's hard to imagine how much one has learned, because the progress is so monumental. It is an exceptionally rewarding class: more work than I have ever done at Harvard, and more than worth it. I would take it again. For anybody interested in architecture, I highly recommend it.
Transformations is the most engaging class I've ever taken.  Be prepared to put in a lot of time and work but the reward is worth it.  Megan Panzano is an amazing instructor and she radiates enthusiasm for the material which makes you want to work even harder. The TFs, Justin and Sofia, were the best TFs I've ever had and will answer emails all day and night.  Bug them, email them, find them at their desks.  They are an invaluable resource.  If you have any interest in what goes into the design thinking of architecture, you should make room in your schedule for transformations.
This is such a rewarding class as it pushes you to develop both theoretical and logical understanding of architecture while also providing you a foundation of modeling and construction skills. I loved the class and would take it again, however it really is a time drain. Because a lot of the work cannot be done remotely, be prepared to spend some late nights at the GSD. Time management is key. The course's rigor can sometimes be stressful, but if you really love the content it's more exciting than anything else.
You'll be thrown into the deep end of design  and there will be some moments of panic and stress  but you'll emerge a much stronger swimmer.
I dare say that Megan has been my favorite professor in my four years at Harvard. She has very high expectations, but is very willing to help you and guide you to meet those expectations. She immerses you in the language by the first week and gets you familiarized with odd concepts like "void space" quickly like this. She also generates a lot of enthusiasm and optimism. My only gripe would be that her perception of time seems a little compacted (10 minutes of plastructing acrylic together = 2-4 hours realistically). It might just be the optimism overflowing though. Iteration through an idea, across concepts and materials makes the end product feel like it has a strong history and foundation behind it. I've worked more with a laser cutter in this class than my entire four years in engineering (also more techniques!). Oh, and you learn how to use some Adobe too!Cons: This course is expensive. Adobe isn't cheap and neither is material. Unlike the VES department (as of 2016), there's no stipend either.
Take this course! Megan is an incredible professor who generates excitement about the subject matter and constantly pushes you to improve. You will work hard and it will be worth it. The projects are engaging and exciting. The feedback in desk crits and formal critiques is extremely engaging. If nothing else, this class gives you the tools to begin seeing the world in a completely different way.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time in the studio, but make sure to enjoy each moment of it.
This course is fast paced, but you will learn a lot about the process of architectural design and building physical models. Absolutely worth taking if you are willing to commit yourself to it.
