This course provides students with a great opportunity to learn about architectural masterworks.
The architecture studied is beautiful and some of the lecturers are the most engaging, interesting, knowledgable professors I have listened to.
Incredibly interesting
Great class with terrific professors and interesting subject matter!
I would proceed with caution. The material is definitely interesting (and tempting), but your grades might suffer. Perhaps take this pass/fail if you're interested in the material, unless they change the way they grade, because the grading makes no sense in this class - I know several other people who felt this way.
A great survey for anybody curious about architecture. Well crafted and not very difficult.
Painless and interesting
If you have any interest in world architecture this is a great introductory level course.
Academic architecture is a bit weird and not very practical... but the class was interesting!
This is an interesting course in which you can learn a lot about 12 random monuments. The course is disjointed because a different person lectures on each monument. Some of the lectures are great while others are incomprehensible or incredibly boring. Still, I'd recommend the class, especially if you are using it to fulfill a requirement, because it's easy and relatively interesting/informative.
really interesting course. exposure to top professors in the field. interesting way to look at buildings and architecture. take it!
I think you should be pretty interested in architecture if you're going to find the class very interesting. Not that difficult though.
The lectures are excellent, the material is fascinating if you're interested in architecture/urban planning, as I am. The sections are not good (silent, usually, and people come completely unprepared) and you don't have to do any of the readings.
The course has great potential, but only lived up to it in moments. Some of the professors gave much better lectures than others, and the section component is very frustrating because it never went below the surface in discussions of readings and lectures.
.
Great way to knock out a gen ed.
This class is extremely interesting, but sometimes the material is tough for an intro class.
This is a really cool class if you're not familiar with any architecture (not sure if i'd enjoy it if I'd been well-versed in architecture). The writing assignments seemed annoying, but, after I wrote them, I felt like I had a new outlook on architecture. I honestly feel like I have a new appreciation for buildings. It's awesome!
This is an extraordinary course--amazing professors from both the GSD and HAA departments, fun sections, and very pertinent subject matter. Definitely worth taking!
This class is a good way to get rid of a Gen Ed requirement and is not very difficult or demanding.  However, the professors/TF expect every student to know a lot of architectural terms, and know how to write papers about buildings - they expect us to be art history majors and over look the fact that this is suppose to be a survey course and not a detailed specific class.
You are exempt from the midterm as a thesis writer. All the professors are awesome. Just do what you can on the horrible papers and don't stress about it because the final is easy and straightforward.
Its an easy course.  probably one of the best AIU Gen Eds out there.  Assignments are easy.  Sections are boring and the lectures are hit or miss.
study your flashcards with slides!
I was unable to muster up much enthusiasm for the material.
It's very interesting but not a class I would take completely cold... I'd have liked more direction and experience in the subject of architecture and writing about architecture.
It's a great course for someone who wants to get a taste of HAA but doesn't have any background knowledge in the field.  However, some of the landmarks are questionable, and it sometimes feels like the landmarks are being chosen based off of what the professors are interested in (rather than the landmarks being chosen for their importance in architectural history).  But, the diverse teaching staff does make this a fun course, and a lot of the material is enjoyable to read.  The papers are also kind of fun to write.
Big core class. Don't get lost.
Great course for cultural background.
This class is like a tour around the world.  It is interesting and it will change how you view architecture.  No interest in art or art history required.
Awesome course, not the best-run though.
This is a great class that provides a well rounded introduction to both history and architecture. I would recommend it to anyone.
Great, easy class for a Gen.Ed. requirement. Besides the readings each week, there's not much work to do. The lectures are really interesting. I don't think I ever fell asleep during any of them. Try not to miss any of them because they're where you get the bulk of the info needed for the midterm and final.
If you are interested in learning about architecture, this is a good survey course.  If you are not particularly interested in art or architecture, this is probably not the course for you.
I would not recommend this class if you have taken any art history classes or are comfortable dealing with history in general. You'll feel really talked down to the entire semester. That being said, it is a fairly easy way to get rid of the Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding requirement.
This is definitely an interesting course and one worth taking if you're at all interested in architecture or in learning more about some of the world's most famous landmarks.
Really interesting topics, assignments are worthwhile and very interesting
This is a fun and not overly difficult class. The readings are manageable and professors very impressive.
Really great and interesting lectures most of the time.
This course is pretty disjunct at times. Be prepared to be lectured by professors you might not understand because of their teaching style or way they speak. The thematic breakdown of the course is pretty easy to follow. If you like buildings, thats awesome, take it. If you are lukewarm about buildings, I'd look elsewhere.
Really enjoyable course, learned a lot.
Take this class but make sure you shop sections.
There are much better HAA courses to take.  This was the WEAKEST HAA course I have taken at Harvard.
very interesting class, but requires more work than you would think (not the EASIEST gen ed to take, but fairly manageable)
Although the Professors and TFs are nice, this class is pretty boring and there is more work than there should be.
Interesting class, not perfect but you do learn a fair amount without working a whole lot. You should probably only take it if you're actually interested in the subject matter; you'll be really bored if you don't care about architecture.
Awesome class that I highly recommend!  Lectures were great and readings were minimal but interesting; you learn to think about architecture from many different perspectives without having to put too much work into the course.  A great way to fulfill a Gen Ed or a fun elective.
I took it pass / fail, which was a great decision because I learned what I found interesting and tuned out the other stuff.
This course takes itself way too seriously. If you aren't REALLY interested in art or art history, you will spend much of your time rolling your eyes at the "analysis" done in section. Lectures can be interesting, but many times the lecturers assume you have a knowledge of esoteric art history concepts and then fail to explain them. This makes you lose interest and become lost. This is probably a class that the TF makes or breaks. In addition, the readings seem irrelevant and a waste of time. The underlying concept (architecture of various monuments and landmarks) is a good one, but this class fails in its delivery.
I think the landmarks in this class are so interesting.  Lectures and section are not totally exciting, but after taking the class I felt I learned a lot.
I really enjoyed the lectures and thought the subject material was fascinating. The tests were very straightforward. However, we were given very little guidance with the papers and they were incredibly harshly graded, especially given the low level of difficulty of the exams. The final paper left me with a very bad taste in my mouth, which is unfortunate because I really enjoyed the lectures and the material presented.
If you understand art history already this might be a great class for you. Not an easy intro class if you're looking to get interested.
This class is an interesting and painless way to fulfill that rather annoying aesthetic and interpretive understanding gen ed. You learn about the significance of a few important buildings, and readings, assignments, and exams are fair and not terribly difficult. Take it!
Go to lecture. Stay on top of the readings (at least skim them). Definitely participate in lecture! Definitely take this course because it's really interesting but don't think it's going to be really easy, because it will be really easy to tell if you're not on top of your reading/didn't go to lecture, especially in section when you have nothing to say.
I really enjoyed this course and thought it gave a fantastic overview and introduction to world architecture. The lectures are always interesting - if you can understand the professor. The assignments were a little weird, but fun to do, and the specific requirements will most likely be altered for coming semesters.
it's tough if you are not an haa concentrator and used to lecture slides without any printed text. lectures are often really hard to follow.
The lecturers can be hit or miss- Some of them are excellent, while others are dry and difficult to understand. The grading is harder than you would expect.
A good one to take for its straightforward assignments and info about diverse pieces of architecture.
The class is really interesting overall, but sometimes the lectures are boring. It's super cool to learn about world landmarks, though.
fun intro to HAA
The materials were interesting, but the assignments (papers) were not so great. Take it if you want to learn more about architecture, but don't expect that your analytical skills for architecture will improve tremendously or be guided by the section leaders.
The lecturers are interesting and passionate about their subjects. It's a good introduction to architecture, and will enliven whatever interest you already have.
This isn't really an introduction to architecture, which is what I hoped it would be.  Instead you learn about a very small number of landmarks.  It's all guest lecture, which is interesting and means that you're never stuck with an awful lecturer for more than two classes, but it also means you never actually learn the basics of architecture, just about the individual buildings.  It's easy though, and filled Lit B.
HAA 11 is a pretty good gen ed for AIU and also covers history of the past. Reading is not bad (<50 pages/week) and assignments are not too hard. Slide comparisons are easy. Only thing to be careful of is that most of the class is based on architectural writing, and lots of your classmates will be intense HAA kids.
It's a good class that introduces different aspects of architecture. Does not require a lot of work at all and is actually interesting. Good for a Gen-Ed requirement.
The assignments are really annoying. Take it only if you are extremely interested in architecture and architectural history. Some of the lecturers are especially great, others are less so. But the landmarks in general are fascinating picks and enjoyable to learn about.
Great class, although not as painless as it first seems.
This is an interesting course with varied content that is useful general knowledge.
This course takes itself very seriously.
Great class, interesting material. Lectures can be somewhat tenuously connected; often, the material is fragmented. Sections are pointless.
This class, though at times very interesting, could be better planned.  The monuments themselves are worth learning about, and the lectures are often insightful, but the section component is very weak and the assignments are ill-conceived.
Full of deadbeat students, so sit in the front row and ignore them.
I was so annoyed by the final paper, that I had to go off campus if I wanted to write about something interesting. It ended up being a really fun field trip, though, and it was nice to gather evidence for a paper in a different way than I'm used to. (Check out your books early, though!)
If you're looking to fulfill your Gen Ed, this is a relatively painless way while exposing you to many different landmarks around the world. Lecturers vary in quality, but pay attention to them and most of the non-theoretical readings become redundant (in part because the lecturers are also often the authors).
This class will teach you (especially if you are totally new to anything related to architecture like me) the very basics of architecture and hopefully trigger a taste for architecture. It's a great class for those who want to get familiar with the architectural world on a very amateur level.
This is a great way to approach themes of architecture for the first time.  A very manageable and also extremely interesting course, I would definitely recommend it as a good way to fulfill Gen Ed or just as an elective.
Great course material with varied lecturers and topics, covering a broad range and giving you an idea of numerous different types of architecture throughout different time periods. Reading can be somewhat long, but is relevant. Otherwise fairly straightforward.
Not really worth it.
Fun material. Doesn't require too much work.
It is not taught well. The lecture has too many students for a concentrated class. The sections are not that great.
There are probably easier filler classes out there.
It is very interesting, but also can be difficult.
This is a fun survey course, but prepare for the lecture quality to vary, and for some of the readings to be very dense.  Overall, you learn a lot about themes pertaining to architecture and you are exposed to a lot of cool new sites around the world!
The sites aren't that great and a lot of the lecturers were not that good.
great course, very accessible to those who have had no previous experience in the subject matter!a great panel of guest lectures and interesting choice of architectural landmarks that is sure to catch the interest of anyone in some sense or another.this course really makes you think about architecture in a whole new way; a very exciting and worthwhile elective or gen-ed!!
I would say if you want to take a HAA class, take a class with Jennifer Roberts- either HAA1 or HAA172w. Having taken both of those, I had higher expectations for a class in the HAA department, but now I realize those classes were just both really good because she's a phenomenal lecturer. These lecturers were okay, but the class felt sort of hastily put together, maybe because its new. Definitely not the best HAA class I have taken.
VERY broad class. As someone with some background in the subject, I found it to be frustrating at times.
If you have an interest in architecture and art history, this is a fantastic class to take. You not only learn about architecture itself, but the social and political implications of it.
This class teaches students about great works of architecture and provides a solid basis for the study of architecture.
Different perspectives/ themes discussed is really interesting, and the way the course has used Harvard Buildings/examples was an interesting connection to landmarks studied. HOWEVER, TFs can get really intense about the class... which is kind of too much for a GenEd
I liked this class a lot. It was definitely not easy, and is graded surprisingly hard, but the material is really interesting and if you put the time in you can get an awesome intro to architectural themes.
To succeed and enjoy this class, ensure that you have a genuine interest in architecture as a subject.
Better than HAA 10.
Its a great class, some of the topics are a little random for a "Monuments of the world" class but many of them are surprisingly interesting.
Learn about some cool things but not particularly rigorous.
If you are interested in the subject matter, take the class. A great introduction to architecture - very interesting materials and well presented.
I do not suggest it.
Pretty buildings. Not incredibly interesting. Quite a bit of work, unfortunately.
Not that easy but not too hard either.
The course is interesting but it is better to take it if you have a genuine interest in history.
excellent!!! make sure you go to lecture and are familiar with some of the readings to cite them for the exams
This is an incredible class.  I highly recommend it.  The lecturers are amazing, and you will find yourself looking at architecture in a whole new way.  This class not only looks at beautiful and inspirational buildings-it looks at the life of buildings, the social impact of urban environments, and the power of architecture in shaping collective memory.
It's a great introduction to architecture and covers a lot of different material and themes.
If you really like art history, take it, but don't otherwise.
Some lecturers will be great, others will really be a slog.
Easy and interesting
This is an interesting course that is relatively little memorization but it the TFs are really particular and not all that understanding of people being new to the discipline.
Really good, especially to get an idea of the department.
It's an interesting class with interesting material.  Architecture is different from painting or engineering.  It's a very interesting type of art, and the buildings we've looked at emphasized different aspects of it.
It was boring
This course doesn't require much work, but an interest in the subject matter is helpful.
Interesting class. Focuses a lot on abstract themes though, like "the role of the patron." Would have been better if it focused on more concrete architectural things. Good class though. You get to hear lectures from lots of cool people.
Go to lecture and pay attention and you'll be fine. It's a very interesting class and the material is very engaging.
Every week is a new lecturer which is nice.
A great way to fullfil AI requirement. Painless, low workload, and you actually get to look at great buildings.  If you don't mind looking and talking about art and architecture, take this course!
HAA 11 is an amazing course! It is the best humanities course I have taken so far. I learned so much from the readings, lectures, and sections, all of which are very insightful. The course is very well prepared and taught, and it really broadened my perspective and the way I view the world. Even if you do not consider yourself very interested in architecture, you will still really enjoy this course - it will teach you so much!
This is a great class that engages you week on week. I took it to fullfil a Gen Ed requirement and it was a lot of fun. Section really adds to the course too!
This is an exceptional class! I really enjoyed the lectures and the assignments. The material and the readings were very interesting and engaging. A very enjoyable way to meet the A&I GenEd requirement.
This was a surprisingly fun class!  The lectures are all really interesting, you are introduced to a bit of architectural theory (when Michael Hays is teaching), and most of the readings you can skim or not do.
This class is great for people looking for an interesting GenEd and are interested in architecture at all.
It is a great introduction into the field of architecture and helps to understand how the world is shaped around us. Reading is bearable and assignments not difficult. Yet, you will be able to understand famous buildings from a totally new angle.
This class could be nice and easy. Just follow the syllabus and start your paper in a timely fashion and that's it. They offer slides and readings that help you understand what the buildings are about, so you'll always be up to speed.
Even though I am not an HAA concentrator, I greatly enjoyed this class and never missed a lecture even though they were video taped.  This class brings together architecture historians from a variety of schools.  The fact that the lecturers change every week ensures that the class does not become monotonous.  You will learn how to engage with famous buildings such as the Taj Mahal and the Pompidou Center.  This class is accessible to people who have not taken HAA classes before (it doesn't get very technical).  You get to go on small field trips during section sometimes too.  I feel like I left the class with the ability to talk about and understand the buildings and spaces around me in a way that I could not before.  My only complaint is the readings which were not very illuminating.  But the time commitment is very low.
Really interesting for non-concentrators! It gives a great architectural overview and is really fun
You won't actually learn about architectural styles and terms. It's all about philosophy and weird theory which seems completely inane and in the clouds. If you aren't a liberal arts person, don't take this class. It does expose you to a lot of new ideas and concepts, really broadening your intellect. But this won't make for great party talk unless you're at MOMA galas.
If you don't have any interest in architecture, it's going to be hard to maintain interest. But it fulfills a requirement without too much work. The readings were irrelevant, and the exams were fairly easy.
This course is a great overview of architecture. Instructors are clearly aware that most students have no prior experience in the subject, and are therefore very accommodating. The lectures can get boring.
Just by attending lecture, you start to look at the world that is built around you in a different way (and you start to pick up on things that you never paid attention to before) - very worthwhile!
This is a wonderful course for all students have an interest in architecture and art, but do not concentrate in HAA; great Lectures by different experts, good grades.
Class was poorly organized and not intellectually stimulating. Section was terrible. Not a very difficult course but there are better ways of satisfying the AIU requirement.
Great intro if you don't know much about architecture and want to learn more.  You'll study different buildings, some you know and some you don't.  The assignments are fun.
Material is great, K Michael Hays is an ineffective lecturer
None
Class material is interesting but somewhat disorganized. Course staff my year wasn't particularly good.
ONE OF THE BEST COURSES AT HARVARD!!!  SUPER CHILL AND YOU LEARN A LOT.
Go into the course knowing there are many different lecture styles and presenters. Your main task should be to constantly think of how to integrate the lectures and make broad connections, rather than think of each building individually.
This class is easy, but the lectures are sometimes hard to understand as they focus largely on architectural theories that are quite obscure and hard to follow.
Some lectures aren't as good as others but come the final exam you will see how they all fit nicely with the overall course themes.
This is a solid class and would be a nice Gen Ed. It teaches you how to look at architecture.
Take this class!
Attendance in lecture is key, though dry at first. The material really comes to life in second half of semester and makes the seemingly flowery aspects of architectural critiques achieve relevance.
The lecture quality varies by lecturer -  since it is a survey course, there is a wide spectrum of teaching styles and degrees of abstraction.
The subject matter was interesting and accessible for those with no architecture background.  Most of the readings were interesting, and there were only three, relatively straightforward assignments.That said, some of the readings were pretty dense and there was a wide range in the teaching ability of the guest lecturers.  I would still recommend though, especially as an interesting and relatively painless way of satisfying the AI gen ed requirement.
This course is great if you are just very recently getting acquainted with architectureotherwise, you do not learn much. The offering in Spring 2013 with Prof. Hays was particularly interesting because of his theory-centered approach, which meant that it was (except for some earlier parts where we discussed the Speyer Cathedral or St. Peter's) not that formalist. However, I thought that their way of measuring knowledge was not quite adequate, especially in the final where you could write about literally anything.
This class is easy, it's a Gen Ed, and you get to see a few cool places. Nothing should stop you from doing it.
The course feels very scattered because each lecturer only gives two lectures. Michael Hays' lectures were not good. They often attempted to cover more abstract ideas, and this became reduced to him saying things like "I'm channeling Kant here..." and then never fully explaining the idea well. Some of the lectures were incredible though (Neil Levine, Rahul Mehrota, and a few others), so overall, I enjoyed the material, but my enjoyment was not always from a good lecture, but from the readings and doing my own light research into the structures. The class is very easy, because the writing assignments are short and simple and the exams don't require deep knowledge of much material (some memorization of names of structures, dates, etc. and then essays where you pick what you want to write about). Section is hit or miss. I had a great TF (Read), so section was enjoyable, but not especially stimulating or engaging. This course would be best fit for someone without background in art history, because I felt as though concepts were watered down a bit and definitely simplified. But I would also be nervous about this course being someone's introduction to art history at Harvard, because I've taken much better art history classes, that are also introductory and require no previous knowledge. Don't expect a great class, but if you want something easy where you will learn a bit about architecture, this could be a good fit. Just be aware that lectures will range from terrible to great.
Take this class if you have any interest in architecture!
It is an interesting course, however, it is not very well organized, and involves a LOT of "heavy" reading.
This is a great class if you have any interest in architecture. I would highly recommend it. I took it as an elective and it was not a lot of work, but you learn a lot. Because it's thematic you end up getting a nice survey of the various types of architecture and you do develop your own tastes.
I'm not sure what I expected out of an architecture class, but I was envisioning more description of buildings, history and such.  However, there is a lot of architectural theory that is thrown in so be open to that if you do take this course.
It is a good way to get this gen ed requirement out of the way, but I did not find it particularly interesting as someone interested in concentrating in HAA compared to other HAA classes I have taken.
This class changed the way I see the built world. You have to be interested in architecture and aesthetics to take it, definitely, but if you are the slightest bit interested in cities and buildings and industry and the way we construct the environment around us then take this class you wont regret it! minimal work to get by, engaging sections and cool fieldwork and exposure to real buildings at harvard and in boston. LOVED THIS COURSE! Also my TF was super cute
This is a great class to fulfill aesthetic and interpretive understanding. The assignments are straightforward, and although there are 3 papers, a midterm, and a final, the work on a daily basis is minimal. Although it is very easy to do fine in this course, it is not that easy to get an A because of the method of grading, so I would keep that in mind when comparing this to other geneds.
Solid gen ed. I learned a fair amount and learned about a way of thinking. Wouldn't have taken it independently, but a good way to complete a gen ed.
Great class. Great essay writing skills is crucial.
Felt very disjointed and many of the lecturers were too abstract.
Can be a bit "artsy-fartsy" so if that sort of thing annoys you, this won't be a good Gen Ed class.
its not a bad class, but its not great. lectures are more interesting in the second half of the year.
This class was really worth taking, and all the different guest lecturers provide a different perspective on architecture, not just what do individual buildings or styles mean but broader questions on how we perceive them, their construction, how changes in architecture reflect societies. I thought the assignments were fair and if you put in the effort you got a decent grade. The lecture hall is dark, the chairs moderately comfortable, so bring coffee.
This was a buffet of some of the most beautiful, fascinating, and complex works in the world from experts at the GSD and beyond.  The course really seemed to believe in its philosophy:  we're not memorizing buildings, but being able to analyze and synthesize a ton of other factors (politics, landscape, ideology, history, aesthetics) along with the formal elements of the work.  The sections encouraged and achieved deep conversations, and the assignments were consistent with the goals of the class.  It's my favourite class at Harvard so far.  The only drawback is that the amazing professors will tempt you with just a couple lectures on the topic, then withdraw back into the world of graduate school.  The professors are generally unreachable outside of the lecture hall.
This class is at once extremely educational and extremely reasonable. Through the semester, you are exposed to some of the most important contributions in the field of architecture, which were chosen to expose students to a wide range of locations and time periods. Each week has a new lecturer and new topic. There is very little work, week by week, and I enjoyed nearly every lecture. Your final grade is composed of section participation (25%), two short papers, a final research paper, a midterm and a final. There are weekly readings, which are usually very interesting and usually not necessary for success in the course. Highly recommend this class for anyone who enjoys art history, looking at buildings, learning about urban planning, and thinking about how an architect can manipulate the mind of anyone who enters his creation.
Great class that will give you a more holistic perspective of the man-made structures that surround you. A mix between architectural analysis and philosophy, HAA11 surveys known and less known architectural landmarks to provide a foundation of knowledge for any cultured student.
If you're looking for an intro for HAA or simply want to learn about architecture to fulfill your Gen Ed requirement, this course offers an engaging variety of topics and I enjoyed all of it
A good course for both concentrators and non-concentrators. Not intimidating and gives a wide range of architectural history on a world scale.
A good architecture survey course with a moderate degree of difficulty. A good taste of the field, accessible to non-HAA people, too.
Take it. It is fun the work isn't too bad and the assignment cater to your interests.
A manageable and interesting Gen Ed, providing exposure to a large variety of architecture and professors in the Graduate School of Design. Nice way to fulfill Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding if you don't want to write about poems, novels etc.
As a science concentrator, this class was everything I hoped for in a Gen-Ed. I came away with a newfound interest in architecture and I learned some really interesting things. The workload is super low and the lectures are really fantastic. Absolutely take this class if you are considering it.
Interesting material but presented in a boring way.
Some boring lectures, but very easy class to enjoy
Proper introductory course, no previous architecture experience requiredtake if you want to understand the built environment (your entire world) differently. It is also easy.
A great overview of architecture. Not a huge time commitment, but still very interesting. I took it as an elective and was not disappointed.
I ultimately learned a bit about architecture, but it was a difficult journey getting there. Some of the lectures are great, some are not. Some lectures were maddeningly hard to follow or obscure. I enjoyed writing papers about Boston-area landmarks, and the overall workload is rather light. The could use a more organized, systematic orientation.
Not a super interesting class but fine for the AIU requirement
This is an amazing course with great insight into the various thought processes that go into the architectural development of landmarks and sites. The course is organized simple and cleanly, with all materials provided, so the works is made easy for you to succeed.
Lots of assigned reading that is not wholly necessary to read very in-depth. Don't stress out too much about specifics-- more important to focus on big ideas.
I think of this cours as an introduction to architecture history through case studies are particular monuments and the buildings studied are all very interesting though they are not always perhaps the most well-known. The later buildings also introduces topics within modernism which is interesting if you like that, (Pompidou Center and Holocaust Memorial in Berlin). Strongly recommended for anyone who has some interest in architecture, but also just in understanding its relevance to our society and its challenges.
This class is an amazing introduction to thinking about architecture. The different topics and professors keep the class exciting and some of the lecturers are truly amazing! Sections could have been better though, but mainly not because of the TFs but the lack of participation.
interesting and fun class, would be helpful to have somewhat of a background in HAA
You have the ability to learn a lot about your surroundings and see things that you never really looked at. If you work hard, this class is a lot of fun and teaches you a lot.
This class gives you a good basis in the history of architecture and is good for people with no background experience. It can be a bit disorganized and tough to follow at times, but the readings aren't bad and the assignments were pretty interesting.
if you are interested in art history or architecture at all, this is a really fun class to take and will introduce you to thinking about architecture. i wish it had been a bit better organized. instead of going chronologically, the class just touched on major themes through one example of architecture. it was awesome to get some superstar professors talking about their expertise, but that also made it a bit disjointed. also, the sections were not super helpful because they just supplemented the lectures, and not very extensively.
The course itself is easy-going, relaxed, but also informative. If you are looking for an easy elective or just to fulfill a requirement, this is a must take course. Beware, though, not all TFs have the same grading philosophy. The assignments overall are not difficult so there isn't much to worry about.
If you take good lecture notes you will be all set for the exams, the readings don't really add anything except nitty gritty details that aren't going to be addressed. Just understand the lenses through which they want you to evaluate the architectural sites. Some of the lectures are less exciting than others, but overall it's actually pretty fascinating how this class made me see the world as a product of intentional design, and you get to take a look at some of the most fascinating buildings in architectural history. A great way to satisfy the Aesthetic GenEd!
HAA 11 is a painless solution to the AES&INT gen ed. It is informative and the work load is not bad. Just 3 short papers, a mid term and a final. I thought that the class was a great way to satisfy a gen ed
This course is a very engaging course if you enjoy architecture and art. You can definitely get a lot out of it though even if those aren't your primary interests.
A solid straight forward class on a topic many haven't ever considered studying before. Definitely worth it
Take this class if you have any interest in learning about architecture. The lectures are really interesting because they are given by people who have studied the respective landmarks for most of their lives. The section discussion are also very interactive and eye-opening. Some of the readings are interesting, but readings are not that mandatory as long as you pay attention in lecture.
This class is supposedly easy. It is not. It is a low workload but quite difficult to do well in. The assignments seem easy but it is much more difficult to write this kind of paper than it may seem. Plus, there is great disparity in grading... some TFs are much easier than others. The lectures also vary in quality... Some are excellent but most are quite boring.
If you are interested in architecture but know very little about it or have never studied architectural history before, this can be a valuable introductory course. I don't think it is particularly rewarding for HAA concentrators or those with any prior experience (even limited) in Art History.
it's amazing - take it!
A solid course for taking out the AIU requirement or for getting an introduction to HAA. The lectures are usually fairly interesting, and the landmarks covered in the course are neat, but the teaching staff can be a bit too serious about the course, considering that it is an introductory course that many students take solely to fulfill a requirement or as an elective.
Reasonable workload and interesting class. Very applicable to the real world.
I took this after HAA 10 and was disappointed; it's not as strong a class as that one is. Overall, it felt disorganized and poorly planned. I only recommend it if you're really passionate about architecture.
Great class if you're looking for an architecture rather than pure art focus. Make sure you get into a good section.
Very interesting material and not a serious workload but slightly disappointing overall.
Good overview of art history and not too much work!
Really interesting material, but section can be relatively dull and the readings aren't that great.
A very good class, especially for an good A&I credit. Is pretty relaxed, and the material's interesting so you'll want to do a lot of the readings, but if you don't, it's not the end of the world in the slightest. All papers and exams are completely fair and not worth stressing over (study, but don't stress). One of my favorite things about this class was that learning about the monuments was a segue into learning about the cultural, political, and often religious history of different buildings throughout time.
An engaging, interesting class that presents many major examples and theories of architecture in a succinct, if work-intensive, manner.
Buildings are incredibly cool. If you have any interest in them going into this course, your interest will only grow! Most of the lecturers are very good and the course is not easy enough as to be irrelevant but it will not dominate your time. It is a good class.
If you are someone that likes math, science, or any other subject that is at least semi-rational, you will not like this class. You will find the total nonsense that gets spewed in lectures and sections extremely frustrating. Each hour you spend working on assignments for this class will be an hour wasted. You will hate yourself for picking this class.
Some lectures are very boring and you may consider shanking yourself mid-way through.
I now see the themes we discussed in buildings all around me
Be aware that you are going to have to talk about buildings and art.  An interest in that would add to the experience.
Look for another gen ed unless you are really, truly interested in architecture and its historical context and want to be bored to tears in 80% of the lectures.  Sections are also stressful since participation is a large chunk of your grade - I found it difficult and intimidating to volunteer to comment in section, knowing most of my section had a much wider knowledge of the material and could see right through my naive and narrow perspectives.  Unpleasant.  Grading is also confusing and arbitrary - I got a better grade on a paper that I wrote in 4 hours the night before it was due than I did on a paper I started a week early, met with an instructor about, and revised thoroughly.  So discouraging...
I really enjoyed the course. I felt like I learned a lot about architecture and that the course had both appropriate breadth and depth of material. Section was fun, though if you are really interested in art and architecture, I might caution you, as discussions were sometimes a bit dead due to what seemed to be a high proportion of relatively confused and/or apathetic students just taking the course for the Gen Ed.
Amazing subject matter, great class, you get a lot out of it and its not super overwhelming
Easy class. Interesting if you like architecture. Only work is reading which is a lot, but you can get away with skimming it for section. you HAVE to read it though before midterm/final. Really helps you have more to write about.
Don't take this for an elective unless you have a burning desire to learn about buildings... lectures are unfocused and frustrating at times. Exams are also graded more harshly than I expected. All in all though, I do appreciate architecture much more.
You will learn a lot about different pieces of architecture and the importance of them on a larger scale
If you are interested in architecture in any way, take this course.  If you find the architecture of buildings dull and difficult to analyze, do not take this course.  The assignments are easy, but it's not worth the reading if it is not something that you find remotely interesting.
You gain a framework for critically assessing buildings and constructing meaning from visual, cultural and historical context.
Lectures are hit or miss.
Good class which covers a wide range of architectural structures. Some lectures better than other but interesting on the whole.
The rotating lecturers makes continuity, and thus investment in the course, somewhat difficult.  However, the instructors do actively tie together the diverse monuments.  Not too much work, but avoiding the readings can come back to haunt you.
It was okay. A lot of the lectures were boring and the sections weren't great but there would be some interesting content occasionally.
This is a very interesting course but it does require a lot of reading.
This is a very interesting course! Take it if you are interested in architecture and want to fulfill your AI requirement with an easy course.
I would encourage students who have an interest in architecture to take this class; it was a great introduction to the field.
Pay careful attention to which landmarks are studied and make sure you're interested in at least half of them. Otherwise they can end up seeming somewhat obscure. Read: It's not exactly the Pyramids and the Empire State Building, maybe one or two levels deeper instead.
THIS CLASS IS AMAZING. you get what you put it, and you don't have to put in that much
Go into this class with an artsy mindset
Very interesting material but the class depends highly on the lecturer.. Would have loved all lecturers to be like the Crystal Palace Professor, the Brasilia Professor, or Neil Lavine - even though he is retiring :(
I'd be very careful about this class, it is not a guaranteed A. The TFs grade surprisingly harshly if you do not put a lot of effort and thought into your assignments. Even then you may not get the best grades. The expectations for this class are way too high for a Gen Ed.
Fun, easy gened, that actually changes how you look at the world around you.
This is a good survey of architecture with interesting professors and topics.  I have no complaints - I enjoyed the experience and the class was fair.
Will learn about famous buildings and have a greater appreciation for the physical world around you. Great if you love different cultures, histories, and geographies
I would say that the lectures are fantastic but the course depends on whether you have a good section leader
This is absolutely the best class to fulfill the Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding Gen Ed requirement.  The course is not terribly difficult, but it exposes many students to a subject that most never learn about.  This course is great because we are constantly in contact with architecture all around us and never really appreciate it, but this class helps one to look around and enjoy the built world around us and make societal, political, social, economic, and historical connections.
Unreal, great class to take if you're ever going to vacation like a boss in rando international places and want to have something moderately intelligent to say about the buildings you visit.  Brutal lectures sometimes, but they're for the most part engaging.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Spent a total of probably 2 days throughout the semester on it, probably going to get A- as well.
Take this course if you're interested in architecture and interpreting it. Keep in mind that the readings are pretty long, though extremely interesting, and that the course involves some memorization that is essential on exams.
While some of the lectures may be difficult to pay attention to, some of the lectures are actually very interesting. It is not necessary to go to lecture to do well in the course.
A great class, really interesting and not too challenging
Even though the class feels disorganized at times, I thoroughly enjoyed learning about all the drastically different types of buildings. The lectures were really enlightening, and some of the reading material, although slightly dense at times, is very interesting as well.
HAA is a great introductory course to architecture, even if you don't want to be an HAA concentrator. It will increase your awareness of the buildings around you, and will make you a more well-rounded person
This is a decent way to knock out AIU. You get to see lots of pretty buildings, and some of the knowledge you can later take with you as garden party conversation -- like why the myth of a second black Taj Mahal exists. Overall, the course is pretty straightforward and grading is lenient.
This is a gem. You learn about some cool buildings, you do very little work, and you come away with a gen ed requirement. What's not to like?
I recommend this class with enthusiasm: always have, always will.
If you need an easy gen ed, this is it. It's also very interesting. Most of the lecturers are visiting lecturers which keeps the class interesting.
SUCH AN EASY COURSE. SO EASY. But, only take if you're looking for an easy course or are really interested in the topic matter. The class seems like it would be cool, but can become on the boring side, especially the lectures.
I'm sure there are better A/I's to take.
If you're interested in architecture or think that you might be interested in architecture, take this class! It's a great way to be exposed to some of the most famous architectural works.
If you don't know anything about architecture, this might be a good class to take. But class is unorganized though.
Go to lecture - the material on the landmarks is awesome!
Decent course for your A&I requirement. Only three (fairly short) papers, a midterm (optional if you're a senior with a thesis to write), and one final. Sections are great if you have a good TF, and reading (though "required") isn't really required. Goes very in depth with eleven or so buildings--do not take if you're looking for a general overview of architecture--but the staff does a good job making sure each building represents a certain theme.
This class was an interesting and easy way to fulfill the AIU requirement (by far the best, in my opinion). A little fluffy, but still pretty cool.
The class is really great but may be a rollercoaster because the professors change every week. You might not like them one week but love them the next.
This is a great way to fulfill the AIU requirement if you are interested in architecture and history. Many of the buildings discussed are not really "landmarks" but have interesting thematic consequences. There is not much work and the instructors understand this is a gen ed and not supposed to be a difficult serious class.
Lectures are boring at first, but get MUCH better in the second half of the course
This is a nice introduction to the study of architecture through different architectural landmarks around the world. This course is unique because it brings in a different professor who is an expert on the landmarks and themes of architecture that you will study. It is a painless way to knock-out your Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding Requirement, and it will definitely change the way you look at buildings!
The lectures were pretty good. If I had an hour to live, I'd spend it in section, because it would seem like forever.
Need architectural background
You will look at everything around you differently
Easy gen-ed. Does not require much of you at all! Some lectures are very interesting and some are not. Try to take good notes because that is what you will study from for tests. No other materials are supplied to you to help prepare. Reading is not necessary at all
great introduction to architecture. readings are good so not too hard to do well in the class
Some concepts are all over the place
good way to get the AIE gen ed
Interesting, visual lectures. Straightforward assignments that build on work in lecture and section. Really need to keep up with course material in order to participate well in discussions - but exams are fair/what you expect.
This course is a great overview to a number of diverse architectural landmarks. However, it focuses less on the architectural aspects of buildings (practicality of structure, function, periods or historical backgrounds of building types) and more on architecture and its ties to culture and society. Written assignments were interesting, and the exams are very fair.
Isn't a bad gen ed. Interesting, not too much work.
The class wasn't so bad. The only issue with this course is the fact that there were so many lecturers. Every two lectures, there was a new speaker. Some lecturers were more effective than others.
There are a lot of papers and a final exam so it does have a lot of work at the end of the semester.
Very good option for the A and I requirement. Engaging lectures, but unenjoyable sections and tough grading on papers.
The class has a light workload and you can make what you want from the material depending on how much you want to learn. But the expectation is not super high.
it changes the way you think, it's great
I loved this class! Start early on the papers, definitely helps to get feedback from your tf
This course is an easy and surprisingly engaging way to get a Gen Ed req!
This class has an interesting format (switching lecturer and topic every two lectures) that will always keep you interested. The workload and weekly readings are definitely manageable and the lectures are generally captivating. This is a great way to fulfil this particular Gen Ed requirement.
This class is very interesting as it will introduce you to works if architecture that you may not have heard of before, but would definitely want to visit by the end of the course. If you are any bit interested in architecture, I highly suggest taking this class
It's an interesting class with a manageable workload- would recommend!
This class is the ideal gem. It's a really interesting subject and you actually learn a lot, but there's next to no work. Doing the readings isn't necessary (though this may depend on your TF). Do go to lecture, though - the midterm and final are entirely about lecture material, and they're not taped. But they're low-key and interesting, so it's not tough to do. Perfect class for your Aesthetic gen ed or as an intro to HAA.
good if you really like architecture
Great class. Go to lecture and take detailed notes because you don't have access to recordings.
Pretty good way to fulfill a gen-ed. You get to talk about a new building every week with a new lecturer, so if one lecturer is boring he/she will be gone the next week. Some of the buildings were really interesting, too.
They grade way to hard and it takes away the fun of learning a new subject
The lectures in this class are painful -- horribly boring and uninteresting.
This class is a great and easy way to fulfill a requirement and I think you will end up enjoying the lectures and material more then you think you will.
This class is very interesting, and is a good way to fulfill gen ed requirements. The lectures cover a variety of landmarks, and they are covered very thoroughly and in an interesting way.
This course is straightforward and will allow you to think critically about architecture and design in general
This class is really intriguing, whether you're interested in architecture or not.
This course changes a lot from year to year, for example I had friends take this course the year before me where the faculty was mainly GSD professors and they loved the course. My year, the HAA department was in charge of the course and many of the lectures were dull and uninteresting. Definitely check who the coursehead is, because if its an HAA professor it'll be bad again, but if it's a GSD professor it will be worth taking.
Make sure you read at least 2 of the readings each week because they will be discussed in section! Section is worth 25% of your grade and it's really awkward when some people haven't read anything and don't speak at all.
Two words: Ise Shrine
Pretty easy and fun interesting Gen Ed. Getting to go around and see buildings for the assignments was fun and the papers weren't taxing (like 2-3 pages each). Kinda annoying that there was a final paper and a final exam but the tests weren't too hard. Just memorization.
The good:1) Lots of topics.2) Section clarifies stuff well.3) Balanced workload.4) Exams and assignments are fair.The bad:1) Lectures are really hit or miss.2) Architecture is super niche and it just might not be for you.
lectures are the most important thing to go to
I would definitely look into this class to satisfy the tricky A&I gen ed requirement.  Studying architecture, in my opinion, is the best or most tolerable way to get through that gen ed category.  With that said, this class is very enjoyable and helps you see the impressive depth of every building around you.
Super easy and interesting intro to architecture
one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Well taught, interesting, engaging speakers, good TFs, not too much work load.
If you struggle with paying attention in a lecture class, this class may not be for you. However, if you are able to concentrate, you will get a lot out of it and see the world around you in a different way.
Go to lecture
The material has the potential to be very interesting. However, the lecturers are so incredibly boring and the readings are almost irrelevant to the course. If I were to go back and take this course again, I'd literally just do independent research on each building and go to section. Lectures need improvement
make sure you have an interest in this field because the lectures can be boring if you don't
It is a great class! Do take even if you don't particularly like the subject!
Some TFs are much harder graders than others. Be careful, what seems like an enjoyable class can get ugly.
Great way to knock out your A&I. Other then that, I wouldn't take it again. It's very easy.
This class exemplifies the detriment of offering researchers the chance the teach. Ironically, HAA 11 proved that experts are not always qualified to give articulate, informative, and organized lectures. I often felt underwhelmed, lost, and -- in extreme cases -- ambivalent to learning about architecture if only because of the poorly practiced teaching staff.
Some of the lectures were not well structured and tangential, but sections helped to learn the basics necessary for the exams.
The course is great for people with any level of interest in architecture. There were people in the class concentrating in just about every concentration and each person seemed to really enjoy the class.
Great course, fantastic way to fill A&I. Lots of hot girls.
TFs are different- you get a picky one, you won't do so well on assignments. If you get one who is flexible and is more motivating and helpful, you will do great. If you get Tamar, if she is still there, then switch to a better one.
The material is fairly interesting but do not take this class expecting to get an easy A. It is one of those classes in which you can do minimal work to pass but it is hard to get a very good grade, especially when the amount of feedback you receive is minimal.
It is a good class, but it's a little unorganized.
You need to like architecture or be artistic else you will dislike the assigments.
Architecture is boring
Gem of a course. To get an A, you need to do two annotated bibliographies, which require a little effort, but if you put in that effort this class will be a boon for your Harvard Education, with minimal pain. No real homework, just weekly sketches. Study a bit before the midterm and final and you'll be fine.
This is a wonderful introductory art history course that you should take. It covers some serious ground in one semester in terms of Western architecture, and you'll probably end up knowing more than you want to about Western churches. It's a very well organized class from the outset and the TFs are great. Keep up with sketch assignments (they're really not that hard), go to lecture if only to hear from Harvard's most eminent guest lecturers, study the day before the exam, and you'll do fine. Don't worry about the whole "Only the top 10% of the class gets A's," it's really easy to do well.
You will learn to think about architecture and design in your everyday life
It's very easy to get a B+ in this class doing almost no work. However, it's probably the most poorly administrated course I've ever taken at Harvard. Lectures are hit and miss depending on who's lecturing.
This is a necessary life course to take, in that you will learn and be familiar with architecture from all over the world.
Take this if you want to change the way you look at buildings.  I have so much more of an appreciation of architecture after taking this course!
This course could really benefit from an overhaul in organization. There weren't clear strands or themes connecting each of the lectures, which vary wildly in quality. Prof Connors and most of the lecturers are quite good, but some clearly phoned it in. The sketch assignments are generally fun and worth doing, but the readings are useless and not tested. It's an easy course with a low workload, but may actually be the source of an inordinate amount of stress since the expectations are so unclear.
This has the potential to be a fantastic course.
This class was a lot of fun. Come interested in the material and willing to take risks with sketching.
Awesome course. Sketching every week is great and doesn't take a whole lot of time. You'll learn a lot about architecture and be equipped with the vocab and analysis methods to appreciate great work.
The information is extremely interesting however it is not well organizes
Not the most interesting Gen Ed but can definitely learn a lot of you want to
This course is a lot of fun; it covers a wide range of monuments with just enough information to be interesting without becoming too detail-oriented. The sketches can take some time and require travel, so be sure to plan accordingly!
Great fun, especially if you want to get better at sketching and learn a bit about architecture.
A great course, very interesting and fun. Work on a weekly basis is pretty relaxed, but there is a lot to remember for the exams, and the annotated bibliographies can be time consuming
HAA11 is fun and fulfilling. Only fun if you care about art/architecture, though.
This course give a great overview of architecture from different periods across various cultures. Professor Connors lectures on about half of the monuments and then invites experts to talk about the other monuments. It was very interesting to see the differences and similarities between the different monuments and cities that we discuss throughout the course of study.
The material is interesting, but they tend to grade surprisingly hard in a course that doesn't present enough material to merit this level of difficulty. I think it would be quite enjoyable taken sat/unsat.
Very manageable, and really interesting.
This course is good for broadening your architectural horizons and learning about the buildings in the world you really should know about by now. The many guest lectures from different departments provide interesting/complex insights, but when it comes time to study for the exam, the material is very straight-forward.
This is a fantastic course! Joseph Connors is an incredible lecturer and the guest professors he brings in are top notch. Also, this could be the easiest class in the world to pass/fail.
Lectures are fairly dull and exams are brutal. A nice overview of world architectural landmarks but hardly a gem.
This course teaches an appreciation of the world and the people who built civilization to be what it is today in such a way that walking around Harvard afterwards is artistically and aesthetically enriching in a way that I never dreamed possible.
I would recommend a course covering similar subject matter. However, leaders in this course (Professor Connors, guests, TFs) did not always seem to be on the same page. I wish that course leaders had the opportunity to sit down and ask "What is this course's thesis about each of the landmarks we cover?" I also wish that the course leaders had been clearer about exam format and grading.
I learned a lot from this class and it broadened my perspective, but it didn't include any East Asian architecture at all. It should not be called Landmarks of World Architecture with Asia missing. Otherwise, fun and interesting class, but also lacked organization at times. We would find out about sketch assignments in the city a few days before they were due, and we didn't have a clear picture about grading and how to improve.
Sketch assignments were graded hard. Lectures got to be boring. Got to learn about cool and famous buildings, but unless architecture interests you, probably shouldn't take.
Interesting class that offers a uniquely unpolitical perspective on architecture as an art form. Assignments are fair and the buildings studied (for the most part) are very interesting and give a good overview.
Sure, this class is "easy", a "gem" some would say. But that's only if you kind of care and if you are willing to pay attention in lectures and spend some time before the midterm studying. I really didn't care about this class and I believe that you should take classes that you are truly interested in. Some of the lecturers are a real bore and the sketches are a pain to do.
This class was very interesting, but involved some annoying elements. I luckily took it p/f so it was not stressful, but the grading scheme seemed a bit confusing/unfair. Sketches take a long time if you are not artistically inclined and want to get the best grade. Sometimes the lectures are not coherent and there is little connection across weeks, but there are some gems and very talented individuals/interesting landmarks covered. The course is a bit like armchair traveling, but the most stressful version of it I could have imagined.
I like architecture, it is an interesting subject and probably the best one to get rid of your gen-ed with. This is a relatively easy class but it's not an easy A class. There are many annoying aspects like sketches and they say that only 15% get As. Also the class is set up around many guest lecturers and many of them do not know what topics to go over. They also expect students to have more free time to do these assignments than we actually have. For example they have sketch assignments that can take a long time and the buildings to sketch are out of the way.
Professor Connors is a fantastic lecturer and when he lectures really generates an enthusiasm for the monument.  He has also selected a great line up of lecturers on a diverse set of monuments.  This class is a gem!
I absolutely loved this course. This is an amazing class IF you really want to learn about architecture. The buildings are beautiful and have incredible histories, and each of the lectures is given by someone who knows everything about that building. Don't take it if you don't care about architecture, because you will just be stressed about their nebulous grading scheme. But if you really engage with the material, you will do fine anyways and you will learn so much. I knew nothing about architecture but now I am totally hooked, and if I wasn't a graduating senior I would absolutely continue with architecture. Also, this year there were weekly drawings, which I really enjoyed. Its very refreshing to have a different kind of assignment, and you will be so proud of your sketch book by the end of the semester.
.
Pretty low-key course that takes you on a tour of several iconic world monuments -- gives you a newfound appreciation for them (if you've already visited) or makes you want to visit/revisit them later in life! Good for a person who wants to explore buildings around Harvard and Boston. The lectures + interactive sketch assignments make you more observant of the world around you. The grading may seem somewhat arbitrary but I think it ends up being ok in the end.
Connors is fantastic, look forward to his lectures in addition to the numerous guest lectures. If you are looking to take an intro HAA course, take this over HAA10
Don't take this class as an elective and don't take it for a letter grade  if you do.
This class is pretty frustrating. A couple lectures are really awesome (like the first one!) but some of the guests are really hard to understand and disorganized and boring. There's a ton of sketching that's required and it's pretty hard. Exams are difficult too and really nit-picky about tiny images that appeared in one lecture. I took this because I had to for the Gen-Ed; would not recommend though. One small caveat: Brett is literally THE BEST. Most awesome TF of all time and made the course a lot better.
Grading is tough
What a wonderful course! Professor Connors is the sweetest, and he is really invested in making this an experience. There is no need to do any of the readings, as long as you attend lectures. Lectures are fantastic. The sketches are time-consuming, but it's really cool to show people your sketchbook afterwards. Low time commitment in general but higher time commitment before the midterm and final.
If you don't enjoy sketching and aren't willing to go the extra mile with annotated bibliographies, this course is not for you
I personally enjoyed the course because of my background in art history, but most of my friends who took it without background hated it. The class is what you make of it, don't take it if you aren't really interested in the topic.
Great opportunity to draw and learn about historical monuments.
It's a good course to take if you have any interest in architecture, but if you don't, I wouldn't take this class because I don't necessarily think it will spark someone who doesn't already have an inclination for the subject.
A lot of people thought this course was stressful due to the mass of material to memorize and strenuous sketch assignments and annotated bibliographies, but I loved learning about different parts of the world through different buildings, and studying monuments closer in the annotated bibliographies. Most people use it as an easy class and are shocked when they actually have to work.
Really difficult class if you are not naturally artistic/ gifted in architecture etc. If you aren't good at art it was overall not an enjoyable class. I think it was interesting- and I loved professor Connors and my TF I just didn't like the set up.
I took this course purely as an elective to explore my interest in architecture. If you've even sort of considered a future in architecture or working with buildings, I recommend this course.
The topic is interesting and there is potential, but this iteration of the class was plagued with logistical difficulties - all the TFs seemed to be on different pages. Guest lectures were hit and miss: some very interesting and informative, others focused on incredibly minor details.
N/A
fun class with a huge variety of lecturers, great subject matter that lets you see the world in WHOLE NEW WAYS WOW
I think this class is a great introduction to architecture course! The assignments are pretty good and not too hard. Lectures, especially with Prof. Connors, can be quite good, however expect a few bad lectures and naps as sometimes the guest lecturers are confusing or quiet and the room the lectures are held in is dark and good for sleeping.
It is very interesting and fairly easy in terms of how they grade stuff.
This course was definitely a nice introduction to looking at architecture. It was definitely NOT a world architecture class, covering almost entirely European buildings. The assignments gave little direction, but were not too horrible. Although, the grading system was weird since they tried to distinguish between HAA majors and those taking it for GenEd
The Midterm and final exam is very memorization-based. Attend lectures because that is your  major source of information. (Lecture videos are not posted and posted slides can be vague. My section leader was not very helpful. The course is interesting over all and the different lecturers and topics each week keep things fresh. Of course, you're bound to like some lecturers and landmarks more than others. Work load is pretty light.
This course is easy, but buyer beware: the lectures (some of which were very interesting) and sections do not have anything to do with the assignments or the exams. None of the lecturers communicate, and the poor TFs are seemingly drawn at random from the GSD with no regard for their background knowledge of architecture.  Take the course for light workload and to learn a little bit about architecture, but know that it's disorganized.
Great survey of (arguably) some of the most significant monuments in the world. Weekly workload is essentially just readings and sketches, which ended up taking me much longer than I originally thought. Some weeks the sketches were tedious, but I found myself really enjoying others, especially because they forced me to go out and engage with buildings on campus and throughout Cambridge/Boston. Overall, I enjoyed the rotation of lecturers, although I inevitably found some more interesting than others. Prof. Connors happens to be a great lecturer which is fortunate because he gives several.
I loved this course. I think I took more away from it than any gen-ed so far. However, there was far more work required than anyone should expect from a gen-ed. The course is far from easy. If you choose to take it, don't expect it to be a good way to "balance out" your schedule.
A good basic understanding of the world architectures can be attained if you do attend lectures. Don't rely on sections.
I wanted to love this class but there were a few things that could have been improved, annotated bibliographies were strange, grading opaque, lectures dry, but the material was very thought provoking and interesting.
Great class, be careful about grading though, there's a big focus on it and grades are deflated. Take it pass/fail if you can, and you'll love it!
If you like art and history and want to change the way you see buildings around the world, take this class! There is a lot of interesting content and fun sketching activities, but organization/grading can be slightly confusing, so you might enjoy it more if you take it pass/fail.
This clas is great because it exposes you to world famous monuments that every global citizen should know well.
Take this if you have a strong interest in architecture
Unless you are really interested in architecture i would not recommend this. There is very little connection between lectures, and its unclear what the expectations are in the course.
HAA 11 is a good course, but not great. I think that the course material was really engaging, but that the teaching and the course organization lags behind.
If you enjoy drawing and funny professors, you'll love this course
This class is a great intro haa class and has a lot of breadth. Connors is great
great senior year class
Course was quite disorganized, TFs seemed lost. Connors was very funny and awesome but he didn't teach many lectures. It also felt like he had unrealistic expectations considering this is a Gen-Ed course and I had never taken an HAA class. I put in way much work than I was planning to, and did not have a clear idea on how things were being graded/how I was doing in the class. Definitely learned, but there could be better ways to learn this material.
It's not an easy-breezy gen-ed.
