Take this class to spend a lot of time getting to know some brilliant and amazing professors very well.
Opportunity to go abroad for free!
Great course just a lot of work
Do not neglact to take this course, future HAA sophomores. Do not neglect it.
Though it wasn't the most stimulating class, a free trip to another country is well worth it. Getting to know several professors is wonderful and it creates great bonding with classmates.
additional section would be helpful
There is absolutely no reason why you should not take this class: studying the art of a place knowing you will soon experience it in person makes the material so much more engaging, the teaching staff tries to make it as enjoyable as possible, and you also get to travel!!
If you are a sophomore concentrator in HAA, you should bend over backwards to take this course!! It is such a neat experience to go on this trip withyour professors and peers.
The greatest strength of this course is its ability to examine the material not just in the classroom, but moreover in situ -  such as in the south of France. The class is also a wonderful opportunity to interact closely with members of the HAA department and fellow concentrators. Class discussion might have improved, however, if the material stressed close reading of two or three sources over seven. The course seemed to hit its stride about halfway through and the time between the professors settled into a comfortable balance. The excursion will be academic and very enjoyable, undoubtedly the highlight of the semester.
It will be a lot of reading and papers will probably have high standards, but the excursion component is amazing.  Be aware though that the excursion will be intense and involved a lot of high caliber discussion, but it will also be a lot of fun.
The course was demanding and taxing. At times it was unrewarding because so much background knowledge was assumed and so conversations would go over many students' heads, while only a few would be engaged. At other times though, it was incredibly exciting to compare two fields in a department that normally provides single-focus courses.
It changes every year, so I'm not sure what to say that isn't specific to the class as it was this year. The course itself was a bit of a disappointment, as it was overly ambitious for us to have two professors and cover two periods of art, even if the point was to understand their point of intersection. This was especially true since I had no background in these areas and had to learn about them both before being able to find important points of connection. There were also a lot of readings, so the workload wasn't a joke before. The trip itself hasn't happened yet, so I can only assume it will make it all worthwhile, but I've heard many negative things about last year's trip. Make sure to ask people how the trip itself was before you enroll, since it's a huge incentive and needs to be worth the time spent during the semester.
Make sure you know which books you need to read over j-term.
This class provides undergraduates with the rare opportunity to travel abroad after studying the field, visit sites firsthand, and engage in constant discussion with the best art history Professors.
This is an amazing opportunity that virtually no other concentration offers. Grab it!
Despite the slight disorganization and the inconvenience of the final paper being due after the trip, the excursion is truly something to look forward to and a rare opportunity to take advantage of.
It's reason enough to choose art history to get an entirely paid for trip for 20 students and 4 top professors (they're even opening the Prado and the Reina Sofia for private viewings for us - truly a once in a lifetime opportunity!)
The sophomore excursion course came highly recommended by all the juniors who had previously taken the course. However, this particular cycle of the course had far more assignments and reading than previous excursion courses. I don't know whether the increase of assignments is a permanent change to the excursion course. I think the course would have been much better had there been greater communication between the professors and Elizabeth. The course was interesting but not worth a free trip.
Take this course ONLY if you want the trip at the end, as it is the only worthy part.  Overall, it's a very inefficient use of time and resources.  The lectures are horrendous. I've taken a look around the room on various days, and noted that nearly everyone has lost their interest, is texting/ doodling, or making faces at each other. When this happens, it's not the issue of the students but the professors who cannot keep their students interested in the topic. The papers are graded very harshly by the TF (Elizabeth). I've spoken to other students so I know I'm not the only one who feels this way. Getting a good grade in this class is very hard, so consider that against getting the trip. Also, the professors never discuss the readings, so the class stopped doing the readings after the second class. Put quite bluntly, it's a class that attempts to be legit by putting out its syllabus that has readings and assignments, but never gets there because there is little guidance. I wish that I've been in a different year to experience a different excursion course.
This class, although long at times, is a great class and the trip is a gem!
I love the structure of the class. I believe it is a wonderful opportunity to work with several HAA professors and to explore a particular geographical area in depth and from each professor's field of speciality.
Professors Kalavrezou, Necipoglu, and Payne are scholars at the top of their field, and they're great lecturers as well! Though the two hour lectures may seem long at first, you'll soon realize that they're barely long enough to include the wealth of information the professors would like to share with you!
I could not have loved a class any more.
