You will not be doing work for most of the semester and then all of a sudden exams will come and you won't have any idea on how/what to study. The course is incredibly broad in scope and run with the expectation that you'll be able to absorb it. Professor Connors cares little about grades and cares a lot about learning which is very nice, but it nonetheless can be stressful at times.
If you want to feel like you're going to an art exhibit to listen to a famous lecturer speak every week, take this course. Professor Connors is fabulous and I wish I had gotten to know him better.
This is a great introductory course for art history, as it does not require a great deal of time and relies heavily on art appreciation, not analysis. However, if looking for a more structured, critical course, I would suggest enrolling in another course.
This class lacks focus, and wholeheartedly embraces art appreciation rather than an engaging approach to what should be a fascinating century of art. Also, there is no attempt made to draw connections between the material and the larger narrative of art history.
Professor Connors is obviously very passionate about Baroque art! If you like looking at paintings, then this course is for you.
Wonderful professor, excellent class.  It's one of the few classes at Harvard that truly fits the description of being not very difficult (in terms of readings and assignments) and genuinely interesting.  If you have any interest in Baroque art, you'll really enjoy Professor Connors' lectures; he's extremely knowledgeable, enthusiastic, and kind.  Take this class!
Wonderful, accessible course about my favorite period in art.
Great class and great professor. Drop whatever alternative classes you are considering and take this one.
The artists covered in this course are many of the great names of all time! Professor Connors is astoundingly knowledgable about even the most subtle elements of the art and the artists lives. Though there is not much discussion (the class is heavily lecture based) there are some opportunities to make comments/observations and to ask questions. Professor Connors is ALWAYS willing to meet outside of class to talk about the course or any other aspect of the department. Take this class if you are at all interested in the Baroque time period, but be prepared for lots of lecturing during class.
I would recommend this course because I absolutely loved Professor Connors and his way of lecturing, but I often had a hard time studying for the course when the time came to prepare for exams because of a lack of concrete specifics (the slide PDFs were very difficult to study from). This might be due to the skills Professor Connors was stressing, which were very observational and looking-based to get a better appreciation of each artist and artwork as opposed to mere memorization. However, I still found it difficult to weave a complete narrative of the course together, which took additional research on my part outside of the course materials.
This class is wonderful! Please take it!
I will absolutely recommend this course to anyone with great enthusiasm. Prof. Connors is one of the most wonderful professors in the department and this course is as enjoyable as watching a legendary movie. Every time I sit in the classroom, I wish it could last longer than an hour. Prof. Connors's interpretation of the paintings are so telling and humanistic that enlightened my way of thinking about Baroque paintings. It even would inspire me further to go to Europe to view the original paintings of Vermeer, Caravaggio, and Velazquez, that was mentioned in this course.
This is not a class you should take as an introductory art history class. If you're taking this class, you should know for sure that you are interested in art history. Professor Connors expects a level of maturity and self-discipline from students by not assigning mandatory readings. It's quite easy and tempting to skip lectures, but you will be lost when you're studying for the final from lecture slides where there are almost exclusively just pictures and very few explanatory captions. At the same time, if you do dedicate yourself to learning in this class, you will come out with a great appreciation for Baroque art and art in general.
Super relaxed and interesting course. Not too much work required, just go to the one lecture a week and enjoy looking and listening. Professor Connors includes a lot of fun stories into his lectures, and makes the atmosphere feel relaxed and academic. The assignments and final were vague, but if you just roll with it, you'll have a great time.
Baroque Art is a period of masters and masterworks. Every lecture I find myself shaking my head in awe at the works. This is a great course to increase your exposure to art, and it will immerse you in the literature around the art such that you will have a wider vocabulary and perspective with which to appreciate the works.
