Prof. Bielfeldt is a dream to work with, and you'll learn a lot about this specific topic over the course of the semester.
If you are not interested in decadent banquets and emperors' eating habits, at least take this course because Bielfeldt is wonderful.
Great senior second semester course.
I would not hesitate to recommend Professor Bielfeldt on any topic -- her lectures are always lively and engaging (and you'd better be thinking on your feet!), as are discussions: if you want useful feedback on ideas that arise during the course, or guidance with developing those ideas at any level, discussion (i.e., prepared participation) in class or during office hours is invaluable.
Each will there be very many readings, but they will all be very interesting, recent, and relevant scholarship so it is worth it to do them. Start your paper early.
This class is enjoyable and has a relaxed atmosphere.
It's important to care about the course material.  I think that I saw a huge disparity between those who were engaged in the course and those who weren't.  People who wanted to be there I think really got a lot out of it . . .  those who didn't really seemed to be wasting their (and the professor/their peers) time.
One of the most interesting classes I have taken at Harvard, taught by one of the most enthusiastic and knowledgeable professors.
keep up with all the readings
This class was a lot of fun in addition to being a constructive place to work on research and writing. Although the topic for the class seemed narrow at first, the dinner was a good lens through which to view a wide range of topics related to Roman art, so don't let that aspect dissuade you from taking the course.
This is a phenomenally orchestrated class. It deals with questions of power, gender, aesthetics, and how all of this comes together in literature and art. You'll read Juvenal and Petronius; you'll grow familiar with some amazing spaces (Sperlonga! The burial grounds in Pompeii!). You might even watch Fellini's bizarre adaptation of the Satyricon, if you're lucky. Put the time and effort into class preparation and you'll be well rewarded. Take this class if it's offered again. You won't regret it. No one knows how to close read physical space like Professor Bielfeldt. A rare class.
This course is very interesting and well formatted, but does require a good amount of independently motivated work.
