This is a wonderful introduction to Art History! Professor Maratsos is a funny, knowledgeable and engaging lecturer. She makes an effort to get to know her students and offers multiple opportunities for enrichment through office hours and museum visits. Although the course material is already beautiful and fascinating, the extra effort she puts in makes it even better. A real gem!
If you have the chance, take a class with Dr. Maratsos! She is unparalleled in her dedication to getting to know her students, and she is so passionate about this period. The ability to study such a critical age of art, along with visits to the amazing museums in Boston, are helpful to be an informed citizen later in life, regardless of your concentration. For those looking to join HAA, the assignments provide a good survey of those you might expect in the department.
Comprehensive introduction to Renaissance painting and art, you'll learn a lot.
Professor Maratsos is a dynamic lecturer with incredible knowledge of the Renaissance. The material was very accessible for those who had never taken an art history course before. This class is a must for anyone interested in art history. As long as you pay attention in lecture and do the readings, the essays and exams will be totally manageable.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard -- absolutely loved it! Prof. Maratsos is incredible and you'll never see an art museum the same way again!
Professor Maratsos is very passionate about what she teaches, and passes that passion on to her students. I highly recommend this class, even if you just have a passing interest in art.
The readings are informative and engaging, they make the lectures much more interesting and productive.Museum visits are the highlight of this course, they allow students to directly engage with artwork in a smaller group setting.
This class is a great way to mix up your course schedule.  It will give you the ability to deeply look at a time in history that had very rich artistic traditions.
Want to enjoy lecture with a professor dedicated to the subject and the student?  Want to learn the fascinating complexities setting Michelangelo apart from da Vinci, Titian apart from Giotto?  Want to read the thoughts of the first ever art historian, an artist who hung out with Michelangelo and Duke Cosimo?  Want to turn your nonexistent knowledge about the Italian Renaissance into an important source with which to engage your world, your peers, and your own aesthetic sense?  TAKE THIS CLASS.  This class is why you came to Harvard.
This class is a rigorous and highly engaging introduction into Italian Renaissance art. It is a brilliant way to explore the HAA field in general and to learn the basic tools for careers in the field, such as how to write a formal analysis.
Doesn't matter if you are at all interested in the Renaissance or not, you will come out of this class loving the Italian Renaissance Art! This was such a great course, definitely one of my favorites at Harvard.
This is a fantastic course - Dr. Maratsos is a wonderful teacher, very approachable and so enthusiastic about the material she teaches. The museum visits and topics covered make it a very fun course while also challenging you to think/write about art and art history in a way that is very specific to the field.
Professor Maratsos is amazingly passionate about Renaissance art. If this is a topic you are interested in, I highly recommend this course!
This was a great survey of the Italian Renaissance. If you want to talk about the Northern Renaissance, this is not for you. If you dont like religious art, then the first few weeks can be dry but the later Renaissance is definitely less dry. It was a great course with great field trips and an excellent teacher who is a fair grader. Just do the primary source reading and you'll be fine.
