This class is a fantastic way into photography after 1945, and its themes remain relevant to photography today and contemporary art at large.  Work is steady (bi-weekly response papers) and fairly well balanced across the semester, never unbearable.
Highly recommended. Take this course if you are at all interested in learning about photography in a historical context! Some of the readings were tough, but class discussion usually cleared up the major points.
I had very high expectations for this class and while the material was very interesting, discussion could be a little awkward/repetitive and I was ultimately disappointed with the class (I think some of this was due to an awkward dynamic between students in the class). The lack of feedback was also very frustrating.The use of the teaching gallery was definitely a highlight of the course however, and Professor Kelsey integrated the museum's material very well in our discussions.
This class is a challenging but very rewarding intellectual journey. Definitely take it if you are willing to commit to it and do the reading. You will learn a lot about not just the history of photography, but about the cold war intellectual climate more broadly.
This course is tailored to fit you. You may do whatever you want with your final presentation, and there is definitely something which will be of IMMENSE interest to you, as the course covers a broad time interval. However, I have to say that Prof. Kelsey prefers to foster discussions much more than to moderate discussions, so what you will get out of the course will greatly depend on the dynamics between you and other seminar members. I was very lucky to have taken this course with an exceptional group of people, but I sensed that some people were not so happy about this diverse mix.
This class was really disappointing. I thought I was going to love it, but I was sadly mistaken.
If you've taken Prof. Kelsey's lecture course there is a lot of overlap.
This course is fantastic. The material is great and Professor Kelsey is such an engaging teacher.
It is one of the best art history classes I have ever taken. It deals with concrete material as much as with methodology. If someone is looking for an introductory level class on modern to contemporary photography, I would definitely recommend this one! The atmosphere of the class discussion is extremely encouraging. Professor Kelsey makes it very comfortable for everyone to voice their opinions.
i would tell future students that the photography from the cold war era raises fascinating issues and that professor kelsey is wonderful to study with.
I would recommend this to people with significant preparation and interest
professor kelsey can make even seemingly unexciting photographs riveting!  he's funny and so smart!  the material was interesting too, if a bit disturbing at times.  take this class!!
