Some previous familiarity with art history is useful.
Interesting if you have prior interest in the topic and some familiarity with the issues discussed.
Interesting class, but readings are dense so require a lot of thought. Recommended for students with some experience in art history.
Great, but difficult.
It would be helpful to understand French.
This course can be challenging, but the reading material is interesting and Professor Lajer-Burcharth is extremely knowledgable on the subject matter. If you have an interest in Orientalist art and want to gain a deeper understanding of the genre, you should take this course.
If you have even an inkling of an interest in exoticism or orientalism, or broader issues like cross-cultural exchange, artistic authenticity, and art historical methodology, you will not regret taking this class. It has been a privilege to be in a small seminar with Ewa and her comments on both the readings and the artwork are always probing and genuinely eye-opening. The course has a manageable workload so that you can really immerse yourself in the art and it is a great opportunity to engage with some really interesting material.
This is one of the best HAA classes you can take at Harvard. Not only is Prof. Lajer-Burcharth phenomenal, but the course is also devised to provide you with as much as hands-on experience with works of art! After each class, you feel like you see the world with brand new eyes despite the fact that this course seems to be geared towards a very specific group of art.
It was very helpful in learning about cross-cultural interactions in the eighteenth and nineteenth century. I found the readings particularly varied and interesting. I would highly recommend the class.
This is a very interesting and well-taught course and by the end of it, your knowledge of the west's pictorial treatment of the east in the 18th and 19th centuries is greatly expanded. Readings are interesting and class discussion is valuable, and if you put the amount of time necessary to read/think about the material before class, you will certainly get a lot out of it. Don't be afraid to speak up! I was for a while, and I wish I hadn't been. Finally, be warned that, this year at least, the actual organization of the class is pretty loose. As in, the actual parameters of the assignments aren't too well-defined and you're neither sure of what grades you have or of how things are being graded.
