Great subject matter that helps us understand trends in architecture even today, Prof. Payne is very knowledgeable so don't be shy in asking questions, Cara is a wonderful TF who thinks about section in creative ways in order to best serve the students and help us internalize the course material.
The stuff you learn here is not just confined to the Renaissance. Ideas and forms from that era continue into the present, and it's really helpful and eye-opening to know about their beginnings.
This is a good class to take if you are really interested in the material; also, though it's a lecture class, it's still very small (~12 people).
anyone interested in architecture or renaissance history should definitely take this class.
Material has potential to be more interesting.
The best course I have taken at Harvard!
all the villas and renaissance buildings look the same!  plus, prof. payne never repeated the names of the buildings (and rolled her eyes when i would ask questions), so my notes are not clear!  the class was not well organized, either.i would only recommend this class to someone who really was interested in the material and knew a bit about it already.
The course was easy but not particularly rewarding.
The material was very interesting but the organization of the class could use some help.
This course is an interesting introduction to classic architecture with a fresh perspective and approach to the topic. Take it if you want to be more aware of architecture, but do not expect to gain a complete foundation.
It is a good course for those interested in Renaissance architecture.
the course is extremely disorganized, but the material is interesting and if it interests you, it's worth learning.
Photocopy the coursepack! (apparently the teachers don't want to do it for us).
this class is interesting especially if you have traveled to Italy, France, or Spain - it is fun to learn a little more about some of the major landmarks that one might have seen in travel.  the course is generally pretty interesting and entertaining, though section and the readings aren't strongpoints.  Prof. Payne is engaging and enthusiastic
Harshly graded and very disorganized. It was difficult to study for the final and midterm because there was no focus in the class.
The lectures and readings were often pretty dry, and unless you are absolutely riveted by Renaissance architecture and people (more than a passing interest in and appreciation of its beauty), you will most likely get bored with the class.The exams required a lot of memorized knowledge of dates, places, and names.
This is a great class. I would definitely take this over a general introductory art class. Professor Payne is great at relating the art to the history and political changes that occurred during the Renaissance. Elizabeth is a phenomenal TF - she clarified lecturers and made sure we understand what was important.
I absolutely adored this course. While it is certainly true that Professor Payne's lecture style lacks structure, often sprawling and riddled with amusing jargon, Elizabeth (the TF) perfectly balances this with her love of structure and concise insights. Lectures are enjoyable, section is instructive. It is a perfect balance that makes the course all the more enjoyable. I went into this course thinking I knew a decent amount about Renaissance architecture - and the Renaissance in general - and left with a whole new perspective on the buildings, the theoretical concerns, and the global politics of era. I am certain there is no other course like this on Renaissance architecture, largely because of Professor Payne. Her approach to the subject is highly unique, providing for an excellent, illuminating semester.
This course was one of the best I have taken at Harvard, largely because it was so different from the other classes I have taken, but also because both the TF and Professor were so knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the subject. I am so excited because I feel like I know so much about a very important artistic movement and would be such an excellent tour guide for a group of friends/family around Italy. Both the professor and TF did such a great job linking complex material to certain key themes, making the information more accessible and more easy to remember (for forever)!
Great material--just so interesting. The course, however, should be approached with caution as there are no lecture notes or video from which to study further. The slides are confusing, and the assignments are too hard to be that few. Maybe reconsider and take another course, or just take it knowing that it will be decently difficult.
The buildings studied in this course are incredibly interesting, the readings aren't amazing but they can be interesting at times, the lectures are fun, and section is super helpful.
Great to take even for things like design and philosophy due to the structural learnings and treatises of the course.
Go to all of the lectures!!!But more importantly, you can come into this class with no knowledge beforehand and expect to leave with a solid vocabulary and eye to describe the architecture around you.
If you are at all interested in Art History and architecture, take this class. I love Italy, so taking this class really furthered my knowledge of the region. I took AP Art History in high school, but that was the extent of my art history knowledge and covered a very wide range of art. So it was really cool to dive deeper into one specific era and style.
Professor Payne is a wonderful professor and Elizabeth was such an amazing TF. The course is structured in an interesting way, it's not too much work or reading, but just enough that you feel like you're challenging yourself to learn.
If you are interested in architecture, this course is great!
Pay attention in lecture even if it is tempting to do other things and do all of the readings! I really wish I had because I think I would have taken so much more out of the class.
It's a great overview of Renaissance architecture.  I'm usually hesitant about any courses that are introductions or large surveys, but this course does a remarkable job in covering a wide range of material while staying very focused and going in-depth.  The work always feels manageable and the teaching staff is very intelligent.  Professor Payne is an expert in her field (very insightful!) and it would behoove you to learn from the best.
This class regardless if you're interested in architecture specifically or not is definitely one to take. It will make you so much more aware of all the architecture that surrounds you and really gives you a new perspective on all the monumental works that you already know to exist.
Professor Payne is a engaging lecturer and very generous with the material she presents in her lecture. I would highly recommend it.
This was a great introduction to not just the architecture of the Renaissance, but also to the ways in which building interacted with the other arts and the way Renaissance forms connected with others both geographically and temporally. The small class size and very flexible written assignment also allowed students to explore whatever they were interested in, which I appreciated.
HAA 51p is an AMAZING introductory-level HAA course! I took it as one of my introductory requirements, and even though I was not initially interested in either Renaissance or architecture, Prof. Payne and Elizabeth managed to cultivate a deep interest in me! Prof. Payne, one of the top Renaissance Architecture scholars, provides a brilliant large framework to situate Renaissance in different cultures from those of the Colonial Latin America to that of the Ottoman Empire, and with carefully chosen required texts, prepares the ground for stimulating debates. She's also very approachable and helpful in person. One cannot talk about this course without also mentioning the extraordinary TF Elizabeth Kasser-Taub, who conducts sessions seamlessly with a high but manageable pace. This is not just a course for learning about Renaissance Architecture as a relic of the past, but as the foundations of today's architecture. This paradigmatic course is not to be missed if you have the tiniest intention to pursue a career related to architecture!
