This is a great introduction to the HAA department. Professor Levine brings in some of the best lecturers in the department. The section component is fun and often takes place in the art museums. I highly recommend this course to anyone with interest in art.
Take this class if you're interested in being exposed to new art/architecture - the lectures can be a bit hit and miss, but some of them were really wonderful. It doesn't require too much work as a class - grading is variable depending on your TF.
This class is easy (one of those classes you can't really get less than a B+ in) and has very little work.  It is also a fantastic introduction to the major themes in art history and provides the skills in visual analysis and in writing about art that are really helpful for future HAA classes. However, this is NOT an art "history" class - you don't learn about the history of art at all; rather, you develop themes about art history that center around just a few major works.
This class was easy, but it's a bit of a drag for anyone who's not already into HAA. You'll end up not doing any of the readings. The course requires an enormous willingness to entertain a lot of sophism out of the materials, your peers (because they won't do the readings either), and yourself. It's easy, but unless you genuinely like this sort of thing and give it your all, you should consider why you're signing up.
the class is interesting and introduces new material, but is very focused on 12 specific works of art.
It's really not worth taking this class. The Lectures are impossible to sit through and understand.
Great introduction into the field of art history.
It's a great, fun class. I feel like I learned so much about art, and I think about art and museums in a different, more complex way.
The readings are daunting but provide an excellent source of knowledge about the works studied during the week. However you can get away with reading them selectively
papers are so subjective, talk to your TFs
I'm not sure I learned what I wanted to learn, but it was still interesting. I wish I had learned more about artistic techniques and traditions, and about the thoughts/lives/ intentions of the artists whose pieces we studied. That said, I learned how to write a good art history paper and about a range of works. It's a VERY manageable course load and lectures are enjoyable.
Take it! It's one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.
It's an interesting introduction to Art History but it's pretty scattered, and most of the lecturers are subpar
This class is a great introduction to how one should think about art in all of its aspects. It's a wonderful class to take because you may find out that you love art more than you knew.
Great introduction to art history looking at ways to evaluate art. This course is not about studying art movements or time periods, but rather showing how to interpret art using 12 specific examples throughout the year.
lecture are hit or miss - some are phenomenal others are literally incomprehensible - keep up with readings everyweek ....less than 3 hrs a week...before you start writing assignments fly outline/ideas by tf (make an appointment)...after done with 1st draft go over it with tf...for first assignemnt not sure how exactly to write in "art history" style....if you keep up with readings class is incredibly managable...review notes from each class same week after lecture...start your final paper soon - will be stress free
You can fulfill a core while learning a lot about a very interesting and diverse set of works of art and architecture.
dont overthink the class, its not asking much of you but your attention and for you to be prepared to discuss art and arcitecture
This is a really fun class. The lectures (most of them) are interesting and the sections often take place out of the classroom. The readings aren't too long and are fascinating.
HAA1 is really interesting, a great survey course on art history!  Not too much work, and being in the Sackler for section is a lot of fun.  Most of the lectures are really fascinating, and some are pretty mind-blowing.  All the TFs are ridiculously eloquent, so you can learn a lot from them!
This is a good survey course for the concentration. Because the professors switch every 2 lectures, the lecture style and format changes drastically as the course goes on, so take that into consideration during shopping period.
The class is no stress and very little work, yet it teaches so much. Strongly recommended for anyone with an interest in art but little background. I am considering majoring in art history after it.
A very interesting survey course, where you get a broad range of interesting topics.  The lectures are interesting and the subject changes every week which keeps it fresh and keeps you engaged.
Good Gen-Ed, easy and interesting.
really loved the class, if you feel remotely engaged or interested with the material you should do just fine.
I'd talk for hours about the questionable intellectual worth of much of the class, but I'd definitely tell people to take it if they're interested in art. Even if the class is intellectually-flawed, by reflecting on its flaws you learn a ton about art anyway, so it's a win-win situation.
It wasn't very hard. Overall I loved it, but sometimes the lecturers were not very good.
I would tell students to be prepared to write art history papers.  They are likely different from other types of papers you have written in the past so start to become familiar with the format before entering the class or writing your first paper.
Lectures are terribly uneven in quality, so don't get your hopes up when Jennifer Roberts speaks in the first lecture. This course is very much like high school, a lot of handholding which means a lot of busy work (like turning in outlines/bibliographies for final papers). Some of you may appreciate this - myself, I would rather have more serious papers and better topics (as opposed to "write whatever you want").
If you are considering taking this case, just don't.   It presents art history as a subject solely about bullshit themes.  I tried very hard to buy into them, but it is difficult when many of the themes are something like, "looking at both of these works of art involves reading the visual elements in them."
I would warn them that it is not a survey course.
Doing all of the readings is not necessary.
If you're considering pursuing this concentration, it's a very good introduction course which will let you know what the concentration is like.
Not too difficult and teaches you a lot about the big ideas in art. Eye-opening.
This class is a really fun introduction to art history that isn't stressful. You will definitely find that you really enjoy at least one or two of the topics since there is such a broad range.
Pretty decent way to fulfill a core.  Sections can be fun when you walk around the museum or look at a building on campus.
It's not hard to get a good grade in this class but all of the assignments are really subjective and you never really know where you stand or what they expect from you.
A great introduction to art history.  This course gave me the tools to analyze art.  Now, I feel like I would experience an art museum in a much more informed way.
I would recommend this class with the highest level of enthusiasm, because it is a wonderful introductory course that will surely live an indelible mark on your appreciation for art and its reception.
Fun Class.
This is a great class for people wanting to learn more about art without taking a boring survey class. The level of discussion is not particularly high and the work is easy.
If you are interested in the non-western centric, conceptually developing introduction to History of Art and Architecture, this is the ideal course. And even if you do already have some amount of knowledge in this area, you can still get a lot out of this course. It really clarifies and puts in order the disorderly ideas you might have had about History of Art and Architecture. A good class, truly. Innovative, too. What more can you ask for?
If you need a lit-B, take Japanese woodblock print.  Some of the lecturers in HAA1 don't lecture.  Some don't speak clearly.  Some are just terrible.  And do you really care about these random works of art chosen from millions of famous works around the world?As a survey course, it does get you to think about art themes, but it needs a lot of improvement.
The more you attend lecture and do the readings, the more you will get out of this class and the material you cover. It is interesting stuff, so take the opportunity to learn it!
The lecturer rotates by week, so some are engaging and others are painful to listen to or outright incoherent. The readings are less than inspiring and the grading feels frustratingly arbitrary. It's not an abysmal class and it fulfills a Core/Gen Ed requirement, but you'll find better ways to deal with those.
A very painless way to fulfill the General Education requirement.
This is a great intro to Art History. Even if you have no experience with the field, this course will be interesting and not too complicated.
Great introduction to HAA, not too demanding, loved lecture!
Unless you genuinely like listening for 2 hours about something that could be explained in 5 minutes or reading 100 pages about something that could be summed up in 2 paragraphs, do not take this course.  Although some practical knowledge is provided and some lectures and readings are interesting, 90+% of the material is fluff.
It is definitely an interesting course, however it is not by any means a survey course.  The works studied are varied, but this makes the course feel disjointed rather than encompassing.
If you can get in, take it.
Great Course.
good class
It's nothing like AP Art History, so if you're looking for a class like that this isn't for you.
If you're not interested in Art History, don't take this class, but if you are, it is such an awesome way to see a lot of various fields that you may be interested in.
Interesting introduction to the history of art and architecture that covers a wide variety of topics
Little work.
Great art intro class, rather easy.
The tf makes or breaks the course. Go to your first section and if you don't like your tf for any reason, SWITCH immediately. Then you might actually enjoy the course.
If you're interested, it's a decent and varied intro to art history.
This is a very feasible and enjoyable way to get Gen Ed credit, but also a really great course if you're interested in art history.  Make sure to do all the readings and understand them well- you'll absolutely need them to do well on the final (and they aren't excessive).
a great intro class to history of art and architecture. Forces you to really examine your surroundings and how we perceive and understand works of art.
Fun class. Good GenEd.
Lectures and readings are very easy to manage. Low workload. However, midterms do not correlate with material in a frustrating manner. Becomes more about how well you can write an essay on the fly versus how well you have memorized the material
This class isn't too much work nor is it too difficult, but take it only if you are interested in the subject matter or else some of the lectures can be a little boring.
A lot of it depends on your TF.  Some of the lectures good/ some bad.
The class is taught by many different professors who lecture on different works of art. Some professors are great, others are very boring or unclear.
it's a good introduction to art history
It's a good class if you're interested in art history and you'll be able to sound intelligent at fancy parties later but if you're looking for right and wrong answers, you won't really find them here.
be prepared to regurgitate the readings in section.
Make sure you take really good lecture notes, or else there's no other way to look back on what the Professor said.
Defnitely, defnitely take this class.  If you are looking for a fun Gen Ed, I would absolutely consider this class. The lectures are amazing and you learn so much!
This is a great introductory class, and a great way to fulfill a Gen. Ed. requirement. Even if you're not interested in concentrating in History of Art and Architecture, it's a fun and rewarding course.
Though section was fun and informative, most of the learning was in lecture.  Lectures are extremely important for the course - don't skip them.
A great survey course.
Interesting material and good general knowledge.
very interesting
The course offers a strong exposure to the kinds of issues discussed in art history and the way that art historians write about and approach works of art. However, I personally much preferred my art history class in high school because it took a more traditional approach and went through art history in order. This class jumps around from one isolated artwork to another and it is much more difficult to see how art history relates to and reflects history beyond the art world, which is one of the things I find most interesting about the discipline. In retrospect I think the fall course would have been a better choice, because it takes a more traditional and historical approach.
This class is a lot of fun. TAKE IT!!!
It's probably one of the easier ways to fulfill a core requirement if you're not into humanities classes.
Take it only if you truly are interested in art history.   I came into this class not knowing anything and thinking I would come out appreciating art more-- that has not happened.
Papers were more difficult than exams, start them in advance and consult with tf.
It isn't as easy as you would expect - the assignments aren't graded fairly, and success in this course is largely dependent on who your TF is.
Good overview of the department, some interesting pieces of art and themes
this is a fun course and great way to get rid of a gen ed
A pretty random selection of art/architecture is studied. Despite this, it's still a great class.
Not enjoyableBoring after week 1Not fair grading- COMPLETELY arbitrary, if you're a great writing take this course and you'll do great!
That it is an interesting class and you learn helpful information on art and architecture surrounding us.
Depends on your tolerance for academic art bullshit. It can be kind of fun. You just make up shit about shit and depending on the eloquence with which you do so, you will get good grades. I got good grades and I didn't believe a thing I said, I just let the shit flow from my pen.
This course offers a great overview of the history of art and architecture through the lens of famous landmarks, so more familiar than others. It's a fun way to "test" out the art history department, and is a class that really anyone can take and enjoy.
This course is a survey course (not a comprehensive theoretical course on art history). If you're more interested in learning in-depth about art and art theory, this is not the course for you. If you have an appreciation for art and just want to learn basics about how you should perceive art in the context of history, this is a great survey course.
you get cultured!
This has been my favorite course at Harvard so far and one of the best organized that I've seen in the last couple of years. If you're inspired by professors who are passionate about what they're doing, take this class; the rotating professor system means that the professors will be of slightly varying quality, but all of them are amazing and easily communicate the passion they feel about the subject. Sections are incredibly well-organized. It's not the easiest core you can take, and there was a slight feeling that effort was not at all correlated with grade, but this class is incredible.
Not difficult, but the first two lectures are way better than some of the others.
Some of the lecturers are really interesting, but some are so consumed with "sounding like art historians" that they don't care that the TFs are the only people in the room who can follow them.  Also, the course is a little bit all over the place.  I like that we covered all kinds of art from all over the world, but because of it, we were never really able to study one period or style in depth.
pay attention in section
Lecture quality is a little inconsistent, but it's painless, fun, and so interesting!
Take this class! It's a better way to  learn about art than HAA10.
Can be quite boring at times. Lecture quality is so uneven... the first couple were great as if to grab you early but don't expect the quality to stay high throughout.
Once you have taken this course, you will never be able to perceive an object the same way again.  The class leaves you with new approaches to critical thinking that are truly interdisciplinary.
Great course for those with no background in art history.
It's a nice way to get a broad sampling of art history topics--both art objects and methods of analysis--and doesn't require the usual amount of rote memorization.
Overall, it's really enjoyable if you are interested in art and architecture.  Go to lectures.
This course is wonderful, but if you do not put in the time to really engage with readings and works, you will really miss out on a great synthesis and a thought-provoking semester.
Great class - a great introduction to a wide variety of subjects in art history. Also, not much work.
Do your reading!
Great class. Good intro to the art world with substantial subject matter and examples.
Take it if you want an easy high grade and don't mind the fact that it will drive you insane.
It's really fluffy.
If you are looking for a survey of Western art, take HAA10 and not this class. HAA1 deals with world landmarks of art and architecture, so be prepared to learn about Mesopotamian art, Japanese and Chinese art, architecture from Istanbul, etc.
Some professors and lectures are better than others, but overall I learned a lot and found the lectures fascinating.
interesting but rambling intro to the subject; some professors better than others; lots of freshmen.
This course is fun, easy, and instructive. It's a great elective and is likely to open one's eyes to some of the basic ideas that underpin our modern understanding of art.
Lectures were good and the material is pretty interesting.  In my opinion, the weakest point of the course is section, which for me was a bit confusing and painful at times.  But all in all, a pretty easy course with manageable workload.
Take this class! This course was one of the most interesting and rewarding classes I've taken at Harvard. You get to see about a dozen faculty members from the HAA department, which is great if you ever want to take more HAA classes.
LOVED THIS, absolutely fabulous lectures and lecturers, a must for potential HAA concentrators, you'll get a sense of all of the faculty.
Take this course if you have a true passion for art, or if you think you might. In spite of the fact that the course didn't consume my interest totally, it helped me determine that this wasn't a path for me to study. Before I took it I really didn't know.
I loved this course - just watch out for a few boring lectures here and there.  But overall an excellent introduction to the department and the subject.
Do the readings and work a lot with your TF. It will help for the mid-terms, finals and the final paper especially.
Its an easy course, but its not always interesting.
Although lectures were sometimes difficult to follow, I really enjoyed the course in general.
some of the lectures weren't exactly stellar, and the specificity of how focused they were on the importance of the one work felt a little too self-important. one building just isn't all that important.
This class is great.  Keep up on lectures and you don't have to be as strict about readings. Also, the lectures are really interesting.  I truly enjoyed this class.  Best Lit B core!
This class is not as simple as it looks, you will be expected to either have a background or strong interest in the subject matter.
It's a great class and you learn about art, but it all depends on the TF you get.  Some of the professors had thick accents and were kind of hard to understand, but it was all interesting information-it all depends on what TF you get!
HAA was rather disappointing- I didn't get a broad understanding of art history that I expected- rather, the case studies were extremely specific and didn't really apply to artistic situations or time periods other than those that we discussed. Also, the lectures were dry and not very dynamic.
A painless way to learn to appreciate art and architecture. You actually learn a lot, but it doesn't feel like you had to strain yourself to do so. Also, some sections meet in the Sackler, and it is a great way to explore a beautiful museum that you (like myself) probably never went into before.
This course is not the interesting survey of Art History you might expect it to be. Instead, it is a seemingly random series of lectures from different professors that range significantly from interesting to confusing.
Solid elective. Not too much stress. Only catch is that while some of the lecturers are great, a few can be kinda boring.
I learned a tremendous amount from this course and it was pretty easy too. Assignments were short, but beneficial because they forced you to develop your own opinions about works instead of regurgitating the thoughts of others. The TFs were extremely helpful, and most of the lecturers were very engaging.
Interesting but definitely geared towards those who appreciate more modern art.
This is a good way to fulfill the core requirement and will introduce you to interesting and new topics.
This is a great course; you will definitely find several artworks that really interest you, and you will enjoy nearly every piece and topic covered.
Definitely do readings on time throughout the week--it helps for writing papers.
This is an excellent course to learn a general background in history. You can also be introduced to all the professors in the area at Harvard.
Good class on an interesting topic.
Don't expect a chronology or history. But it's still really worth taking.
GREAT lectures--always fun.
If you know nothing about art, but want to understand why other people like to go to museums, I recommend HAA 1
a difficult core than most, also, very different across sections
The course is interesting and the landmarks studied are highly varied.
The class depends a lot on the TF.
Good intro class
Wow - best class all year
Great class to take as a core or elective.
Go to your first section and if you don't think your TF is going to be good, try to switch.
TAKE IT!!!!! I now want to travel the world and see all these pieces of art as well as continue my study of the history of art.
This course is excellent in its structure and thematic approach. It's so cool to meet for section in the Harvard Art galleries, and the lecturers are outstanding almost without exception. Beware though: this is not intended to be a survey of art history. It is more of a thematic introduction, plus you get introduced to several major landmarks in world art and architecture. But it's not fundamentally about learning a narrative of art history. Really, though, I think I like that, because it avoids the danger of essentializing and oversimplifying art history and making it too Western-centric.
If you like discussing art without a strong background in formal analysis, this class is very appropriate. The readings are insightful without being overly difficult to get through. An excellent way to fulfill a Lit-B core.
Don't take it.
Great intro class to HAA - definitely learned skills of formal analysis and developed greater appreciation of art
Take HAA 1!  It's great for concentrators and non-concentrators alike who want an interesting, low-stress class about art.
enjoy the museum sections and take advantage of getting to know departmental specialists
Sounds interesting during shopping period, quickly goes downhill.
This is a great introduction to art history for both non concentrators and prospective concentrators.
It's a great introduction to the field of Art History.
It is a great class and has really interesting material.  The way it is set up - with the different professors every week - also lends to our ability to analyze works differently and to see the different ways artworks can be treated.
Read as much as you could and appreciate what the professors come to show you.
Lectures are a mixed bag -- some easy to follow and interesting, some disorganized and difficult to understand.  That can be frustrating, but I thought all of the material was interesting.
This is a wonderful class that fuses numerous eras of art. Each week touches upon a new artwork or topic and is taught by a professor who specializes in that particular field of Art History. It is wonderful to be able to sit in a class and just listen to indiviudals speak about what they are passionate about.
The sections are a very important part of the course and it is important to read before going to section.  They sometimes meet in a normal discussion room but sometimes take place while walking around the museum, providing a great learning experience.
This is a great class to take for the Core requirement, especially if the rest of your classes will require much of your time.
This class is a fascinating overview course because it is incredibly well-structured.  All of the topics tie in seamlessly, the readings are entertaining, and the professors are interesting.  All in all, it's a great way to fulfill a Core requirement or just learn more about the History of Art and Architecture concentration!
It is a great sampling of art history, including all the salient themes in museum display, art reception, etc.
if you are already an expert in art history and theory it will be a great experience with a wide variety of professors and subjects.
It is an easy class with not much work and an intro to art, but not very rigorous or very engaging.
Great way to fulfill the core requirement.  Very interesting.
HAA1 is a great comprehensive survey of art across the world.
It's incredible!  And you learn so much about different types of art and how it's related to the world.  It's interesting to see the implications about society that the artwork/architecture have that you would not have realized before.  Not to mention, you finally understand the importance of the Mona Lisa.
Jennifer Roberts, Spiral Jetty, Sabine Women, Robin Kelsey,and Iwo Jima made my life happiness.
This class is an amazing introduction to a number of themes in art. HIGHLY recommended for anyone with any possible interest in the material.
The class is good if you are looking for a light workload, but it is pretty boring. You are taught to appreciate art and architecture like someone working in the field would. It does not look at art for mere aesthetic pleasure.
If you can fit it into your schedule and you are interested in art and architecture, take this course!
It's a bit scattered and ultimately doesn't teach much about art history - you leave the course with isolated knowledge of a few important elements of art history.
The class is very interesting and it is enjoyable to receive instruction from so many professors in the art history department. It is a great introduction to the field and it will help in being able to analyze art.
It is a great class that covers interesting material.
Interesting course
I would tell a student that even if they were not sure about taking this class because they did not like art, they should give it a try.  I went into this class thinking art was not one of my favorites, but I ended up really liking studying the works of art and architecture.
If you love talking about and studying a lot of different kinds of art, take this course. But understand it is a survey.
Easy way to fill core requirement
I enjoyed studying for this class- it was very interesting to learn about
This is the perfect introduction to art history. Not only do you get to learn from the leading experts in many of these particular periods of art history, but the course allows you to explore important themes in art history that are relevant across all time periods.
The class is interesting and intriguing, and gives you good background that you can use not only in your concentration, but in life as well.
easy and painless
This course is laid-back, yet taught me so much. Because of this course, I am now heavily considering concentrating in HAA.
Good class, just with changing lecturers every week it can be inconsistent.
Lots of reading...start early.
Its an easy class, you'll get a decent grade, but section is horribly boring and the grading is arbitrary.  If you suck up to your TF you're more likely to get a good grade.
Lectures can be really boring. Sections were my least favorite at Harvard, ever. Material is good, you learn some good synthesis tactics.
If you've taken art history before, think twice about it - it is still interesting, but easy.
It's a fun and eye-opening way to fulfill a Lit-B Core.
it is a good introduction to art and viewing art for people who have no prior experience with art.
Great course over all.  Generally very interesting though the lecture quality is very inconsistent - some lecturer are fantastic and others are very unengaging.
I would tell other students to take the course only if they have an interest in art history.
Don't expect that your life will be changed, but you will probably learn a good deal.
This is a great core/Gen Ed. class that is relatively easy, useful subject matter, and enjoyable (you walk around the art museum).
It changed the way I think about art and sparked an artistic interest I never knew I had.
This class is a fun and engaging way to learn the basic principles of the study of art.
Great course!  wonderful core.  really interesting
Some weeks the lecturer is really great and it is very interesting.  Some weeks the lecturer is not very good.
loved it!
I even enjoyed studying for and writing the midterm and final for this class.  I loved it!  It was a great way to diversify my semester, and allow me to use a different part of my mind, in a fun manner.
have some art history knowledge.be sure you ask your tf exactly what they expect for the writing assignments.
It's great.
It is so much fun because you look at art in such a different way, with such different lens, that even if you've never done so, you will stop to appreciate the beauty of particularly the landmarks we talk about.
I am much more appreciative of the art and architecture that surround me. This is an excellent intro to art and architecture. The faculty are very enthusiastic and knowledgable about the material.
This is a great and easy ways to fulfill a core, but not the best class in the HAA department by far.  I would recommend the LAB Japanese Woodblock Print by Professor Lippit above this course or HAA10 or HAA70.
Great class that teaches the student interesting material but without the painstaking work.
the class is largely a muddled mess... there is no real link between works.... some professors are very boring and ignore more important works of history... need more FOCUS
interesting lenses on art history provided.
Great way to get in a necessary course
An easy and fun way to learn about art history thematically, though if you're looking for a survey of art throughout the ages this is not the class for you.
Helps you see art and museums differently.
Attend lectures and do the readings.
It's better to take this if you like art.
It's a great way to fulfill Lit B. It makes you look at art/spaces/architecture in a new way. Having different faculty each week provided great variety, and it's great that they lecture on a topic for which they are an expert and for which they are passionate. You learn about various types of art, which is great. It's not a survey course, so it's harder to understand art historical patterns or gauge a lot about culture through art. This issue is dealt with best in section, when we discussed the skills you need when looking at art.
Awesomeness
The class provides the students with the necessary tools and framework to analyze works of art.
I think its an enjoyable way to do your Lit-B core. The staff is clearly invested in the material and I particularly appreciate that.
It's not a survey course, so you don't have to memorize a ton of information. It's a great way to fulfill a core requirement.
Grading varies widely by TF, Not one of the greatest intro to AH classes (I like art history but the lecture/reading format bored me)
If you want to have an overview of different aspects of history of art and architecture and to gain an elementary analytical skill in reading a work of art, this is the class you are looking for. Or if you are just looking for an interesting but relatively easy Core, this may be the class for you.
It's really interesting and sections are tons of fun, but it lacks continuity and grading seems fairly arbitrary.
This is a great course.  The whole HAA department does a great job and all the professors are really passionate about what they are teaching.  Sections are really fun because you look at art in the a museum.  Overall, by far the best choice for the Lit B core.
the class content is amazing and engaging but exams/essays are not graded transparently. students don't get feedback so you are frustrated about not knowing how you got the grade you did.
Fairly painless way to fulfill the Core if you can get interested in art history's way of doing things. Bring a sharp and caffeinated mind or you'll lose the progression of the professor's lecture and fall asleep in the dark, crowded lecture hall.
Good intro to art history, but better to take a more specific course; this one is too broad.
I would tell students to meet with TF's before starting any written work.
Don't bother doing any of the readings.
It's a pretty painless way to fulfill your Lit and Arts B.  The lectures are generally good, and you at least get a selection of lecturers.  Sections are a bit random, but survivable.
Understanding the complex interplay between the aesthetics and metaphysics of art is vital to appreciating the subtle interchanges between our material and intellectual worlds.
great introduction to art history.
It's a good course in the foundational sense, and many of the landmarks we have studied are either familiar or useful to know.
It's a very engaging survey course.  You should take it.
It's not bad--but not enough really good moments to make it a stellar course.
There is a tendency in section, of which I'm not particularly fond, for students to go incredibly over-erudite.
Take this course if at all possible.
if you're curious about the haa department and want to get to know what the different professors are like, how their styles vary- or to figure out where your interests lie within art history- this course might be helpful. or if you simply like learning about art, then you can't help but get something out of this course- most of it is pretty fun and interesting to learn about
This is an absolute amazing class!! very manageable workload, and you get A LOT out of it!!! It covers a wide range of materials, probably not in depth, but that is exactly what I need from a GenEd. I am a science person and knew next to zero about art before taking this class; after taking this course I feel like I can walk into an art museum and appreciate its works a lot better. the workload is just about right: 500 blog post every week (which you can always revise later), and some light readings (which I didn't have time to read it during the course and read all of them the week before exam, and still doable). This is the most fulfilling course I have taken at Harvard so far. Take it take it!!!
This class has its flaws, but it will undoubtedly be enjoyable if you love art history. The readings are sometimes a lot, though never really directly assessed, and sometimes seem unrelated to course material, and the weekly blog posts are often time consuming. Some of the lecturers are fantastic, while others are very confusing. Regardless, if you are interested in art history or are thinking about concentrating in it, I definitely recommend the class. You get to experience all the professors in the department and many different art history periods. I found every lecture to be enjoyable.
Would recommend this course if you are a great note-taker or have a lot of friends in the class. Otherwise, the lectures are ridiculously disorganized and the TFs assume you should be able to synthesize the info on your own.
Very interesting class that doesn't get boring as you cover many different art periods as well as having a range of very interesting lecturers.
Great way to be introduced to different areas of study within the field. Also, it's helpful get to know many of the faculty members.
The topics covered in this course are interesting and the lectures are generally good, but since many different professors lecture throughout the term, the lectures are not very cohesive. This class assigns a lot of work at the end of the term -- there is both a paper and a final.
If you've never taken an art history course before and are looking for the broadest survey available, my guess is this course will fit the ticket.
A good course to get into art history. The content helps one understand modern day art movements.
I would say that this class is very random in material so it can be hard to follow sometimes. I also think that it is hard not having just one professor, but instead having a different professor each lecture.
Offers a great overview of art history in practice as well as in art historical movements.
This course is good if you're very interested in art history, but otherwise, it might lose your interest. Lectures are taught by different professors, so some of them are fantastic while a few have been dull. Overall, however, it's manageable, and if you take full advantage of the resources given to you, there is a lot you can learn from it.
It was too varied and too jumpy for my taste. I had problems connecting the materials from the lectures since none of them really flow together and section has nothing to do with lecture.
The teaching staff is great for the most part (especially the TFs). It can get tiring to have rotating lecturers, but this serves as a sampler for future HAA courses taught by these faculty members if you are interested. Overall, the material was pretty interesting and the assignments doable. The exams require a lot of memorization, which can be time-consuming. I do recommend this course for anyone wanting to try out general art history. A piece of advice: go to lecture because the material covered is crucial to your success in the class.
Lectures are interesting, but it's not worth suffering through trying to figure out what the instructors actually want on assignments and doing the unnecessarily dense readings.  If you're interested, audit.
While the material is interesting and purposeful, the class moves at a fast pace and requires that you absorb large amounts of information on your own. It is your responsibility to stay on task, especially with assignments.
This class gives a good overall look at history of art and architecture.
This is a wonderful course, certainly one of the best that I have taken at Harvard to date. Regardless of your prior knowledge of the subject, take this course. Although it is a gen ed, both the instructors and the TFs are fully committed to teaching the material in an engaging manner, which does not always occur.
Wonderful introduction to different periods and styles of art. Although the course can often be very confusing, a good section leader like Read McFaddin can really make things make sense and a total joy to learn. Once the themes of the course are made clear (unfortunately right before midterms), everything just makes that much more sense. Beware that not all lectures are made equal and some guest lecturers can be very boring, incomprehensible, or hard to follow (and often all of the above). Beware that the midterm and final can be challenging because they require you to memorize almost a hundred works of art and their authors, medium, date of production, and current location (so is not for those who do not like rote memorization). Overall, though, this was probably one of my favorite courses at Harvard thus far.
When I headed off to college, there were two courses that my Dad recommended that I should take at some point: a music history course and an art history course.  This course was a good introduction to a wide range of topics in art history and although each lecture felt a bit disconnected at times, on the flip side, I have a better idea of which topics I find the most interesting.  In addition, one of the cool things about this course is that you have a different lecturer every 1-2 classes which is a nice exposure to the faculty of HAA and their areas of expertise.
If you have any interest in art history, this is definitely the course to take. As a survey course, you get a broad overview of many different types of art, giving you the confidence to proceed to more focused areas of art in the future, or the strength to hold your own in the presence of experts.
Very interesting, especially if you have no background in art or art history. It's pretty fun learning about all the different factors that contribute to works of art. The blog posts are difficult though. Not an easy class.
This course provided a great overview to various periods of art and architecture worldwide. Lectures and assignments were interesting and not too time-consuming given the huge amount of information and skills I feel like I got out of the course. It's also a great course if you want to take art history in the future, as it allows you to see which of the wide range of topics interest you and which professors you'd like to take courses with.
HAA 1 is a great foundation if you're considering Art History, as I am, as a concentration. With that said, the format of the course--guest lecturers come each week and discuss a period or topic of art history that is particularly interesting to them--doesn't lend itself to coherence. Still, many of the lectures were incredibly interesting and often compensated for the more lackluster presentations. It's important to devote time to your weekly blog entries, which ultimately become the basis for your final paper, which you should begin early in order to have more time to prepare for the final exam. My section was, generally, a lot better than the lecture component of the course. Read is a great T.F. who genuinely cares about his students and gives excellent, thorough feedback concerning your work. As for the readings, it's not necessary that you do ALL of them, but certainly try to do at least one in preparation for each lecture. You'll need to cite them in your essays on the exams.
This is a really great course both for students who are considering HAA as a concentration, as well as for students who just want an interesting elective. It gives a great basis for other classes and really no prior knowledge of art history is necessary.
Take it if you are interested in exploring the professors of the department, but do not take it just for gen-ed requirement.
The majority of your grade relies on the weekly blog posts, so make sure those are polished. Get started early on the research paper - don't delay it until reading period!
It gives you the basic overview of art and architecture from Ancient Egypt to today, so if you'd like to have some knowledge in this field even if you aren't very experienced, this is a good class to take.
I highly recommend this class as an introduction to art history especially if you are looking to delve into major trends in art history and art works from different cultures. The work is not hard, but there are a lot of readings, which should be kept up with since they will likely appear in the major exams. Overall I recommend this course for anyone, but it is best suited for those that want to learn more about museums and become acquainted with major artworks, regardless of whether you plan to concentrate in the history of art or not.
Don't take the class.
This class is nothing like AP Art History. We learned about a seemingly random assortment of works from different time periods, and the lectures were often painfully dull. That said, there were also some really interesting lectures, particularly the first ones on the Spiral Jetty, which made me believe that every lecture would be that interesting. That was not the case at all, and I now know that I will not be taking any more HAA classes.
This was a great course all around. The material that you get to learn is great, but section is what really sets it apart - and Read is a boss. Not only real knowledgeable, but a cool down to earth dude who wants you to succeed. Its a fun subject to learn, but when you get a TF like that who just consistently energizes, inspires and excites the group week in and week out... I mean that's what Harvard is all about. Definitely take this course and ask for Read for TF
This is a really good introduction to those new to art history or for those who have a background but have never taken an entire survey of art history.  It also helps you learn how to analyze and be able to speak about art properly... or at least sound like you know what you're talking about.
Take with caution. If you don't love art history and are ready to stick it through, it's definitely not going to be a pleasant experience for you.
This is a lovely class. Don't come in expecting a grand narrative of art, but rather, relish the opportunity to hear many members of the HAA department lecture on subjects they are passionate about. The best part of the class was "adopting" a work (usually at the Sackler), and getting to know it very well over time through weekly blog assignments.
This is a great course if you are hoping for a wide reaching introduction to art, though it should maybe just be called Introduction to European Art. The rotating professors means that some lectures are much better than others, but everyone is speaking on the topic of their choice, so they are at least excited to be there. The work load in the course is no too large, but keep up with the readings and spend time on your blog posts the first time, so that come the end of semester you are not trying to read everything and rewrite your blog. Take advantage of being introduced to the galleries and visit your paper piece often.
Its really cool to see all the art, but studying for the tests is super frustrating. A LOT of memorization
Every undergraduate should learn a bit of art before they graduate from Harvard, and this is the perfect way to do that.
While the course may be a bit confusing at times and some of the lecturers less impressive than others, it was a great taste of art history from across the world and it certainly peaked my interest in taking further art history classes in the future. IF you're ready for a class that will change your perspectives, definitely consider taking this
Not too painful way to get AandI out of the way.
there's a lot of material that is covered so be prepared to remember a lot for midterms and exams
If you are looking for a low-key course to see how much you like HAA, this is a great class to take.
This course is very interesting, especially the lectures, which were given by various art history faculty about their areas of expertise. The readings were sometimes difficult, but you'll have fun researching for the paper and blog assignments. The exams are not too difficult and basically involved a little bit of memorization, so you can really focus on the interesting aspects of the course rather than just cramming for exams.
