One of my favorite classes at Harvard
You will learn more than art history. History of politics, science, philosophy and culture are all explored in a fascinating way - through the lens of art.
Its a great class.  Really interesting and well organized.  Be prepared for the work load.
Professor Roberts and the staff do an amazing job at providing a perspective on art that one rarely appreciates. Truth be told, had I taken this class sooner I would likely be pursuing an art history secondary.
This is a great course, but maybe take a survey art history course before you take this one. You would enjoy the class and a feel more comfortable.
I would recommend any course taught by Professor Roberts, and would suggest this class as a good first art history course.
great class, learned a lot, JRob!
This is class is amazing.  Pretty much everything you need to know about the last century and a half in American art and culture.
Great HAA class - but to get the most out of it you better be interested in art. The knowledge gap between the HAA concentrators and "never-evers" is huge.
Prof. Roberts is a talented lecturer. She has a knack for distilling complicated material, making it easier to understand and more interesting. She is very personable and makes herself available to her students.
It was worth it.
Beautifully engaging course, manageable workload.
It's a great and interesting class, but you should be interested in the material and like the lectures.
TAKE THIS CLASS. As useful historically as it is art historically. Fantastic time period and unique takes and focus for each lecture.
do the readings!
Art history is all about connections, and Jennifer Roberts sure makes a lot of them!
One of Harvard's best courses, Roberts is one of the best professors at Harvard.
Bring coffee.  It's an amazingly interesting lecture, but one cannot escape the soporific effect of the dark.
This is one of the best courses that I have taken at Harvard.  The professor is knowledgeable, brilliant, and talented, and the subject matter is fascinating.  Take this course even if you are not an art history concentrator!
Very well organized and great intro to modern American Art.  Prof. Roberts is awesome.
A great survey class of American art-- it's useful not only for the art or art history concentrator, but also for any other person interested in the world around them.
It's challenging and certainly not an easy elective, but you will come out of the class with a much greater understanding and appreciation for modern art.
Professor Roberts is one of the best lecturers I've had in my four semesters at Harvard, and knowing the context of the otherwise dead paintings in an art museum is indispensable.
Definetely take a class with Professor Roberts, or at least attend one of her lectures. She really has a great way of explaining art. And she is very accessible and seemed eager to take to non cencentrators as well
more difficult than originally thought, because there are so many HAA concentrators
You will learn so much from this course, but be prepared to work really hard. The topics and themes in modern American art that we cover are fascinating!
This class is great because it is not only a great Art History class, but also one that seems relevant and exciting regardless of your primary field of interest.
Take it! Only four assignments so they must be done well / studied for, but this work is usually rewarded with grades.
As someone with no experience with art history, this course was pretty challenging, but I learned a lot.
Only take it if you love art. Or Jennifer Roberts.
Professor Roberts lectures with an originality and enthusiasm that makes both unfamiliar and canonical material seem fresh and interesting.
Take it.
Jennifer Roberts is a fantastic and clear professor.
Anybody considering taking an HAA class, even beginners, should seriously consider this class. If you're looking for an elective it is also worth considering - I took the class Pass/Fail just to hear the great lectures and learn more about art.
This is a moderately challenging course--thoroughly enjoyable, and you will learn a lot. You will feel good after taking this course, and Professor Roberts' lectures are brilliant.
Definitely a great class if you are interested at all in art history, maybe even if you aren't.
Professor Roberts is an excellent lecturer  Lecture is actually a highlight of the class.
The material is fun and interesting.  There are 2 papers, but the formal analysis is fulfilling experience.  Just try not to leave the research paper to the last minute, which inevitably happens.
Even if you haven't had any prior exposure to art history, this course will probably inspire you to know more about the field. The topics covered in this class are very interesting, not only from an artistic point of view, but also from a historical and sociological perspective. Prof. Roberts is a fabulous lecturer and all of the information is very clear. This class is worth taking, definitely.
THIS CLASS IS AMAZING.  Jennifer Roberts is my personal idol and hero.
I found the course to be interesting and educational, but it was very challenging for someone without a background in art or visual interpretation.  I frequently felt like a fish out of water in this class, even while I enjoyed it.
Fantastic class! Even as a non art-history person, this course proved a magnificent experience. It's a great look into how to do art history, and a way to understand art's biggest trends, even though it doesn't bill itself as such. If you want to take one HAA class, forget HAA 10--take this instead.
Prof Roberts is my favorite lecturer ever! Truly inspired, has made me wish I were an art history major!
Professor Roberts is absolutely amazing and this course is a fantastic introduction to modern American art.  It is absolutely one of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard and I would recommend anyone studying America in any capacity (WGS, Hist/Lit, History, Social Studies, Sociology, Art History) to take this class.
Very interesting class. Some of the readings are really fantastic.
Do it.
It's a LOT of assignments.  The material is interesting although I wasn't thrilled.  I am not a huge art history buff.  I mostly took the course because of the rave reviews I hear of the professor and, frankly, she didn't live up to my expectations.
You learn about a ton of American artists and appreciate what modernity is; you'll get a whole new appreciation for the American art galleries at art museums thanks to Professor Roberts
Jennifer Roberts is one of the best professors you will have at Harvard. Each lecture is carefully crafted and at the end of the course you will feel truly enlightened.
This was one of my favorite classes this semester.  I learned things that I never had time to learn about and feel like a more knowledgeable citizen and well-rounded person because of it.
Very interesting subject matter, Prof Roberts is very knowledgeable, but the course is very hostile to those with little background in art history.
Take it! Professor Roberts is one of the best at Harvard, and the subject matter can't be beat.
Professor Roberts is the best teacher on campus. Everyone should take at least one of her classes.
Amazing class. Professor Roberts is a legend. Take it, even if you don't think you like art history. It will change your perspective.
I would highly recommend taking this class, both to specialists in American/modern art and also to those with little or no background in the field.
The lectures were really interesting and engaging.
i did very little work and learned a LOT about american art. furthermore, the assignments/exams are well spaced.
Jennifer Roberts is among those professors who are pushing forward an exciting new line of research, and it is exhilarating to bear witness to that process each week in a lecture course. She mixes traditional art history with material culture history and cultural history, and the result is always a refreshing, entertaining, and provocative narrative about the unfolding of key issues in American visual culture.
Professor Roberts takes art history to a new level, this class is eye-opening and a great overview of art history of this time period.
It's a lot of fun and really interesting, because Professor Roberts connects history with the different movements going on in American art. The history makes everything much more interesting. If you've never taken an art history class before like me, however, I would make sure to talk to the TFs as often as possible before and when writing your papers, because they will take some time. The class also requires a lot of memorization for the exams.
Jennifer Roberts is the best lecturer I've encountered at Harvard
Excellent lectures and content. Fun readings and worthwhile assignments. Prof. Roberts is the BEST!
Awesome, awesome, awesome class. The TFs are okay but Professor Roberts' lectures are GREAT. Overall, it was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard -- and I'm not even an HAA concentrator!
This has been one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Although challenging for a non-HAA concentrator, it gives a thorough and enlightening survey of Modern Art in America, and also offers a general theoretical framework for understanding the concept of modernity, which, in this day and age, is very important to be able to do. For anybody looking for a profound art historical experience, this class is for you.
Jennifer Roberts is the best lecturer and you learn about some of the most famous pieces of American art.
Material is very interesting, but prepare to be "talked at" for two hours each week. The section component also is pretty useless.
Jennifer Roberts is a great lecturer and this class is a lot of fun. If you're looking for a large lecture that offers an overview of some art history, I would opt for this over HAA 10 or 11, just because it's more focused and in-depth.
Take this class if you want a better understanding of modern art! I seriously learned so much from this course!
I loved this class.  I learned so much about art and about american history.  There are few survey classes at Harvard, and this class managed to be a survey course while still offering a more complex and in-depth understanding of the material.  Professor Roberts is awesome.  Definitely take it if you're interested at all in the subject matter.
Professor Roberts gives amazing lectures (they're not like exciting necessarily, just really intellectually engaging) and the course material is fascinating. I would highly recommend it.
This is an amazing course.  The lectures are incredibly interesting as are the readings and the pieces studied.  While this is not an introductory course, it can be taken as such and will be an amazing introduction to the field.
Take this class, 100% recommended. One of the best classes I have ever taken in my life. Professor Roberts is incredible. You will learn so much about art and cultural history. I didn't miss a single lecture because they were SO ENGAGING. Just take it--I really don't get so effusive about classes normally.
PROFESSOR ROBERTS
Art is such a huge part of our lives, and I think this subject is important for anyone.
Great class if you want to learn about the subject. Also for cores, pretty good.
This is the perfect way to learn about modern art. You won't feel completely lost in the twentieth-century galleries at art museums!
Professor Roberts relates the history of modern American art through a beautifully intricate and fascinating narrative. Amazing paintings, amazing discussion, amazing ideas. Changed the way I look at art.
This is an excellent course for non-concentrators and concentrators alike. Professor Roberts is outstanding as a lecturer and the section component is interesting in that you're able to interact with art discussed in lecture. It is imperative that you attend each lecture and take thorough and comprehensive notes--the midterm and exam cover topics only covered in lecture pretty heavily. Keep up on the reading and make sure to attend/participate in section. If anything, take this course for Professor Roberts; she's amazing!!
This is a great class that will introduce you to a lot of famous art that you should probably know about! Professor Roberts is one of the most engaging professors I have had during my time here.
I wouldn't recommend this class for HAA concentrators focusing on modern/contemporary art.
Really great course if you are interested in American art in this time period. Everything is basically taught in lecture, so if that is not your thing, you might want to reconsider this course.
The lectures are so interesting, I look forward to section every week, and the reading is manageable.
TAKE THIS CLASS. If you are at all interested in modern art, this is the class to take. Prof. Roberts is a truly fantastic lecturer, and it's extremely rare to find a professor that can teach a course like this about American modernism. You'll learn about Pop and Ab Ex and the things you might expect, but Roberts also teaches you about all of the important precursors to these movements. If you don't take a class with Roberts by the time you graduate, you are really missing out!
This is an absolutely fantastic class! Lectures are interesting, the workload is manageable, and you will walk out of class each week feeling like you've learned something important.  The teaching staff, including Professor Roberts and the TFs, are so helpful and passionate.  This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. TAKE IT!
This class was incredible. Professor Roberts is an amazing lecturer. The class covers all key parts of art history and you learn SO much. It is just amazing.
The material  is awesome and getting the see the work up close during section really adds to the experience. American art history is also a great way to be introduced to the subject.
take an intro art history course before this one. Also, take copious notes during lecture.
This is really an amazing class. The content is totally fascinating and will change the way you view art and American history. Professor Roberts is a fast and engaging lecturer. Readings are not too long. The final paper takes more thought and effort but they give you successive deadlines that make it easier-- also it is a really good assignment so it's interesting and fun to work on. Take it take it take it!
Fascinating material. Professor Roberts is amazing.
This class is amazing and changed the way I look at America and modern art.
This is probably one of the best classes I've taken yet at Harvard. Prof. Roberts is a fabulous lecturer (do not miss! they aren't video-taped and what she says matters!) whose course was very well-organinzed and incredibly thought-provoking. Although it certainly isn't an "easy" course (weekly readings + responses, a very lengthy final project, as well as midterm and final), the effort is well worth it. I learned quite a bit!
It won't be a very stressful class during the year, but make sure to take notes during lecture and attend every single one because it will pay off when you're studying for the final.
A course that ranks among the best at Harvard.
TAKE THIS CLASS! I had absolutely no art background but Professor Roberts is just incredible and such a good instructor. I learned so much about art and American history. There's a decent amount of work towards the end of the year with the research paper and final, but there's very little work the rest of the year.
Amazing class! Makes you see art/the world around in you in a whole new way. It allows you unravel deeper thought processes toward art and all types of visual phenomena.
SUCH a good class. art history students- if you haven't taken a class with roberts, you need to. for anyone else- if you have ever wondered about abstract/modern art and what the hell it is all about, you should take this class. it is a class on american history viewed through the lens of art. it takes you through all the cultural developments and shifts of 1860-1960. such an interesting and fun class, and you will develop an appreciation for art and its role in society.
If you have an interest in art of any kind, take this course. The lectures are so incredibly engaging and fascinating. And being able to explore the Sackler museum during section was a wonderful experience. You will learn so much!
Take this class, no matter what your interest or experience in Art History is. I took it without any Art Historical background, and it was amazing (Professor Roberts is unbelievably good).
Don't let the big number 172 scare you - Prof. Roberts does a superb job at putting the dense and complex material in plain words that even someone who has barely any knowledge of the art world could gain tremendously. And if you're confident in your knowledge of this period of American Art, you would still be able to find a wealth of more in-depth information that can buttress or even reshape what you know.
AMAZING! TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!
Prof. Roberts is an amazing lecturer! The class covered a LOT of material. This class was a great choice even though I'm not HAA.
sometimes it's so pretentious you vomit a little in your mouth, but other times it is fun and OK
Absolutely amazing. I took it pass/fail because I heard it would be difficult for non-HAA people, but wouldn't recommend that because you'll want to go to every lecture, and it still requires a fair bit of memorization to know a passing amount for the tests anyway, and I would have gotten an A. Take this course if you are even the slightest bit interested in modern art--Professor Roberts is fabulous and the lectures are incredible. Without a doubt one of the best courses at Harvard.
Professor Roberts si a fantastic lecturer, make sure you have a course with her at some point during your time at Harvard.
This was an eye-opening class where every lecture and section served as an incredible intellectual experience. I don't know if I've ever learned so much in 14 weeks or if I've ever had so much fun in a class before either. Roberts is the most engaging, organized, entertaining, thoughtful, prepared lecturer I've ever heard. She is actually a genius--routinely making incredible, original connections between periods of art. To be able to listen to her for an hour twice a week was such a pleasure.
I actively enjoyed lectures; section is fun, because everyone else in the class was invested in it; the class demands a lot of thinking and connection-making on your part for the exams, but that is fascinating and absolutely worth the time. Even as a science concentrator, I got so much out of this class.
Take this course. You won't regret it. The lectures are fantastic, Professor Roberts is fantastic, even the reading is fantastic. The stuff you learn will blow your mind, and your mind will be better for having been blown open. I see the world in a different way now because I took this class. This course was a bit difficult for me, as a first-semester freshman, just because of time management issues and the lack of a prior background in art history, however: I'm so glad that I took it; it was the best course that I took this semester. I learned so much, and I also learned how much there is left that I want to learn. I learned about art, which means I also learned about society, culture, economics, history, politics, and philosophy. Because of this class, I've developed a new sensitivity to everything that living in a visual world entails.
This is a great class that at once covers a breadth of art and still allow you to have a good, in-depth grasp of numerous artists/movements. This is especially good for people who do not have prior art history background, as Prof. Roberts does a great job connecting the art and artists to historical events and developments of the time like war, industrialization, technology, etc. You get to cover a lot of art in different media and have freedom to study whatever piece interests you for the final project. I also actually looked forward to section, especially the gallery sessions where you get to take advantage of Harvard's amazing collection and apply what you learned in lecture to actual pieces.
Jennifer Roberts is the best lecturer I have had at Harvard. I would take as many opportunities to take classes with her as possible.
As someone who did not have a strong background in art history, I was initially concerned about joining the class, but found it to be incredibly accessible. Professor Roberts does an amazing job about getting you excited and interested in material that you have never been exposed to before. You will find that the art studied in this class is art that appears often in other situations and I have loved applying what I learned to other settings.
THIS CLASS IS WONDERFUL. I sat in awe of Jennifer Roberts every week in class. You learn so much about American art, but also about the mood of America after the Civil War. It's an incredible way to learn about history. The lectures are eloquent and fascinating. I came home for Christmas break gushing about how much I had learned, and I'm not an art history concentrator.
It's a great course with a great professor.  Take it pass/fail if you're concerned about taking it as an elective.
Prof Roberts' lectures were always one of the highlights of my week. She is so articulate, insightful, and brilliant that I could have literally listened to her lecture every day! Section was also incredible, as we got to observe first-hand in the gallery many of the works we had learned about that week in lecture. The workload was pretty light all the way until the end, when we had both a 19 page paper and a final due within a week of each other.
One of the best lectures I have ever attended. Week in and week out, these 50 minutes were packed with both information and insight, giving you a steady stream of important information, but also pushing you to consider points of deeper connection and friction after the class had ended.
You probably should be interested in the topic to begin with, but if taking this for GenEd, probably a little bit of foundation in art history would be helpful.
I used this course to fulfill the AIU gen ed requirement, and it was definitely a much more interesting course than some of the AIU courses. I would highly recommend it to anyone who wants an interesting introduction to Modernism.
You will enjoy attending lectures. They are packed with information and never boring.
Great class for anyone interested in modern or American art.
Jennifer Roberts is an incredible lecturer. Take this class, and every class she offers. It will change the way you see the world.
Lectures were incredible and section with Theresa was also fantastic. A very pleasant class that was both challenging and manageable. I really appreciate how organized the course was and how considerate the teaching staff was (fewer or no readings during weeks when we had large assignments). The class was reasonable, but still a substantial amount of work for those who were really engaged in lecture and section. It's great to take a class that is so rewarding and well-organized. I'm beginning to learn how rare classes like this are. Whenever this course is offered again, for those who cannot take the class for some reason, drop in on lecture! Even if it's only one out of the semester, you will get a lot out of it. Roberts' is an incredible lecturer and anyone with an interest in American history or art history will love this class and her lectures.
Professor Roberts is a very engaging lecture; she is super knowledgeable and really knows how to make the subject matter fascinating to concentrators and non-concentrators alike. Section is great, since you basically get to wander around the Sackler Museum - I can't believe I missed this wonderful collection my entire first year here! But I always wished there were some time for questions at the end of lecture, and the material we studied was heavily biased towards white, wealthy, and male artists.
the professor is wonderful. she expresses her ideas really clearly and those ideas are so interesting. she also provides background information in a very graspable way. section always has interesting conversation. the readings are fun to read, and the research project is fun too!
An overwhelmingly fantastic course. Prof. Jennifer Roberts is exceptional in lecture, both in her clarity and depth of insight. A pleasure.
An incredible course that taught me both American history and American art. The scope is broad, but Professor Roberts shows the interrelationships and influences between periods and regions. If you are considering taking a single HAA class, this is the one to take.
You learn a lot and it's pretty interesting- a solid choice. I feel like I'm much more culturally literate, but it wasn't a particularly EXCITING course. Changed me though- made me appreciate modern art.
This course provides a lot of tools for reading and interpreting American Art of the time period in question, and perhaps later. Professor Roberts is great at organizing lectures and understanding how to bridge them thematically in a legible way. I didn't find it challenging, but it is certainly illuminating, and the final project is a fun way to test the art history waters.
This course was truly a treat.  The main reason for that is Professor Roberts, who has brought American Art History into Harvard in a very profound way in recent years, has an incredible ability to humanize Art History.  She illuminates it for its ability to "offer us important new ways of understanding the world and gaining insight into who we are are what we hope for in our lives." -President Drew Faust.  Let me share this quote with you from the Crimson in reference to Prof Roberts: Dedicated is a weak word to use to describe her devotion to her students and her scholarship, Kelsey said. She works amazingly hard. - TAKE THIS COURSE - It's an absolute blast.
This is about as good as art history lecture courses get. Every lecture was compelling, between the course material and Prof. Robert's excellent analyses and gripping speaking style. The workload was very manageable and never felt pointless; the readings were generally engaging and nowhere near as dense and incomprehensible as many art historical texts can be. I loved that the course was focused around our individual final projects. We were able to spend most of our outside of class hours working on topics that interested us personally.
It's been said before and I'll say it again: Professor Roberts is a gifted lecturer and the material is fascinating. I highly recommend this course to any and every student with an interest in the American cultural and visual tradition.
Whether you're an HAA concentrator or a novice with an interest in art history, this is an amazing course. Take it!
As a non-HAA concentrator, this course was everything I could have asked for out of a Gen Ed: I learned something about a subject I previous had known nothing about (art), walked away with critical thinking and analysis skills that will carry forward in the real world (being able to speak articulately about art), and felt like I was part of an extremely well-designed and well-executed course. Professor Roberts is an excellent lecturer and the teaching fellows are truly top notch. This will be especially interesting for those interested in American history. HAA background is definitely helpful and those without it tend to do a bit more absorbing, rather than immediate analysis, during section over the first few weeks. The teaching staff is incredibly supportive, especially as related to the final project, which made my newbie status a little more bearable. Strongly recommend this course.
The lecture aspect of the course is so great! I made sure I never missed lecture, as it is SO important- basically the best studying I did came from my lecture notes! But Prof Roberts is an amazing lecturer, so it's worth it! Section is interesting but not always the most helpful, but all the assignments are well-timed to help make the final paper not hard to write at all, and the midterm and final are very doable if you prepare! A really great class experience- I had to put some work into studying/my final paper, but it otherwise wasn't too challenging, but still very interesting if you like art!
Amazing class with brilliant professor, fun sections, lots to learn and not too difficult.
Prof. Roberts is an absolutely amazing lecturer. Progressive deadlines for the final project helped make it manageable. Exams were very reasonable. This is a class where work is required of you, and where you'll get back 10x what you put in!
This is the best HAA course offered at Harvard if you're interested in modern art history. Professor Roberts makes incredibly interesting connections and insights in her lectures that you really can't get anywhere else. The reading materials are well chosen and interesting, and the writing assignments are well planned.
ITS SO GREAT
It gave me an entirely new perspective on American history.  Also, Roberts is one of the best lectures I've encountered at Harvard.
It is phenomenal.
Take it. Art history is awesome and eye-opening and will sharpen your analytical skills in pretty much every discipline.
This class taught by Professor Roberts is unique, interesting, and engaging. Professor Roberts provides a thorough overview of the major movements in modern American art in the period between the Civil War and Cold War. Lectures are fast-paced, but very engaging. You will learn about more works of art than you ever expected, but all of the works are interesting and thought-provoking. The section component of this class was also a very valuable experience because you directly engage in works of art in the Sackler Museum that you learn about in class.
This is a terrific survey course. Professor Roberts is a stellar lecturer and a superstar at innovating pedagogically to avoid common pitfalls of the giant lectures. Very clear expectations for assignments, fascinating material.
Take any class with Jennifer Roberts!
amazing class. Professor Roberts is the best lecturer I've ever had.
