This was far and away the most memorable course I've taken at Harvard, and it was also easily one of the best. My enthusiasm stems partly from the course's particular structure: we spent our classes working directly with art in the HAM Study Center. We were working together on a distinct project, and thus students and professors shared the common goal of designing the best exhibition possible from the materials before us. There was therefore a sense of camaraderie, and a rare joy to the work that is not always present in the classroom at Harvard. The curatorial process was a thrilling one to embark on as a class. While the course certainly performed the basic function of imparting art historical material, it also did much more. It helped me to understand the complexities of the curatorial process and to think deeply about the possibilities of museum exhibition. As was one of the course's stated goals, it made the medium of drawing strange. And it was an enormous amount of fun. I feel very, very lucky to have had the chance to take this course. Naturally, the same one will not be offered again, but I hope many variations on the theme will be!Though the format of the course was wonderful, the teaching was also of the highest order. Prof. Lajer-Burcharth and Elizabeth Rudy both clearly invested an enormous amount of time and energy into thinking through the course, from conception to execution. Considering the experimental nature of the course's approach, it went very smoothly and relatively without a hitch. Most boring old lectures courses encounter more logistical issues than this one didat least as far as was visible from the student's point of view. Prof. Lajer-Burcharth is a deeply caring teacher whose passion for the material she works with is as infectious as her knowledge of the material is deep. She is simply a pleasure to work withone of the best in every possible respect. Elizabeth Rudy, too, contributed an incredible amount to my experience of the course through her expertise, insight, and generosity of spiritas well as the finesse with which she facilitated students' access to museum resources.
Take advantage of the access you have to the objets each week.
One of my favorite classes taken at Harvard.
