The topics are not as arcane and confined as it might seem based on the title and description of the class--in fact the broad relevance of subject matter is one of the strenghts of the class.
Excellent class; great survey of French art.
That it is pleasant, and you will learn something.
it's interesting, the professor is enjoyable, and the papers were not a lot of work.  but there were 215 images to memorize for the final (i thought that was a lot).
Good class, great teaching, interesting lectures.  Material is a little esoteric, and I'd probably recommend HAA70 before this one.
Get excited.
Professor Lajer-Burcharth will change the way you think about art.
This is an enjoyable class with well structured lectures.
It is a great opportunity to increase one's understanding of art
Do the readings--they're short and pretty easy to read, and really helpful.
very very interestng subject matter.  excellent professor.  very well prepared lectures.
This class is very interesting and gives you a deeper understanding of French art in general. A few of the lectures seem not to make total sense, but they are engaging for the most part, and I'm very glad that I read the articles we were assigned; I have a generally more sophisticated grasp of art history after this class.
This class is an excellent exploration of French bodies placed in a brilliant historical and artistic framework.  Professor Lajer-Burchart truly sparkles as a professor and is truly a one of a kind teacher.  The art is interesting, as a non-concentrator it was a perfect fun class that was also a serious class in its own right. Lots of slides to memorize, but it comes with the territory.  Be prepared to see lots of nude bodies (which I enjoyed). Also, don't blow off this class.  You get as much out of it as you put in.  Speak to Professor Lajer-Burchart EARLY and use the resources of the TF.  It was really helpful.  If the second paper is the same, be very careful with it and make sure you meet with the TF (many had trouble with it). Also, form a study group at the beginning of the semester and share notes, etc.
The course material is very interesting and Professor Lajer-Burcharth is a great lecturer.
Great professor who taught everything in an interesting and concise manner, and I felt like I actually learned a lot about things that were important. You learn a lot about art that people actually know about! Also it was the perfect workload with good placement for the essays- not right around exam time.
Aaron Wiles is an excellent T.F. - he gives very helpful feedback on papers. I also thought the reading material was well chosen.
cheat sheet: art was really boring until the 1800s.
Just make sure Aaron's not your TF.
The paintings are fascinating and Ewa Lajer-Burcharth is a genius.
This class will give you a new lens through which to think about early modern art history.
Take it!  Professor Burcharth and the TF (Aaron) are both incredible.
This is by far one of the best classes I've taken.  The lectures are all extremely interesting, and I learned quite a bit not only about French art, but also French culture and history.  Make sure to do all the readings in preparation for section, especially since they'll really help you with writing assignments and also the exams.
This course is really interesting and covers a great time period.  But it is hard.  It's a small class so there is no where to hide if you don't do the readings, and the TF was extremely thorough in section.  Plus the readings are difficult if you aren't used to HAA. Very high expectations of the students so be prepared for that.  Also, final exam required memorization of 200+ slides with exact name of artist (and they are french so accent marks) and exact date.
This is a superb survey of French art (and a bit of visual culture) in the 18th and 19th centuries. Professor LB's command of and enthusiasm for the subject do much to make the lectures fascinating.
Great lectures.
You will look forward to these lectures each week. You can tell people you study 18th century French porn. And by the end of the semester, you will have something insightful to say about any work of art that depicts a human body. The readings are super-dense and theoretical, but the TF (Aaron) is phenomenal and will encourage you to disagree with the stuffy authors. The more opinions you bring to section, the more enjoyable it will be. Overall: this class is challenging but beyond worth it.
Definitely take this class. It's great for art history lovers or people who have never taken an art history class. The art we studied is beautiful and will be interesting/enjoyable for everyone.
This is a great course and a wonderful exposure to the Fogg and the Harvard Art Museums resources. But be aware that the midterm and final are a ton of studying and memorization. You just have to be able to spend the time memorizing a ton of slides
This is an excellent course and I plan to take others with Prof. Lajer-Burcharth in the future!
Take good notes on starred paintings, don't worry about dates so much because they barely count on exams
Professor Lajer-Burcharth makes the brilliance of her art historical analysis understandable and meaningful, qualities that often get lost in jargon of other art history classes. This course explores the material conceptually rather than chronologically, and though that made memorizing works a bit challenging, this structure is valuable because you see the intersection of art, society, history, and politics clearly. You will walk away from this class with an enriched vocabulary for art, a deeper understanding of French culture, and a true appreciation both for French art and for Professor Lajer-Burcharth. If you don't take this class, please take another one of hers.
Great course. Workload is manageable.
Super chill! Definitely a focus on you actually learning without getting caught up in the small nitpicky things. Assignments very easy, teaching staff very understanding and accessible, etc.
Try and get Ashley if she's still TFing
Very broad and interesting course
This is a great class if you love looking at art. It was a relaxing class, with interesting material and not too many assignments - great for senior spring!
If you are even mildly interested in art, this is a great course to take. Professor Burcharth is charming and will really endow you with enthusiasm for the subject. You learn not only about art, but also through it about French culture, society, and history. Highly enjoyable, and the assignments are very manageable. You won't want to miss any lectures!
Professor Ewa is an excellent lecturer and you will learn A LOT about French art from the 18th to the 19th century through this course if you follow up with readings and review periodically. It's not a demanding course.
This course offers a new way to think not only about 18th-19th French art but also about the formation of modern French society.
While this class does require you to memorize a very large number of paintings, you learn to see them in the context of each other and history, which is a very rewarding skill to have in general.
This class in absolutely fantastic. Without hesitation one of the best classes I have taken in my eight semesters at Harvard. Lectures are a pure delight, and having class in the Harvard Art Museums is a tremendous privilege. I could not recommend this class more strongly.
This is a fantastic introduction to art history. Ashley is wonderful. Be prepared to memorize hundreds of paintings, but take this course!
