Professor Kalavrezou is remarkably talented and passionate about her work, and it shines through in her teaching!  She makes students appreciate things in Byzantine art objects that they would otherwise overlook.  If students are looking to become more thoughtful and more critical thinkers, they should take this course.  (For History of Art and Architecture concentrators- this is an excellent course to use to refine your visual analysis skills.)  It was one of my favorite classes at Harvard; I learned so much every week!
A thorough and engaging exploration of the magnificent artifacts of Byzantine art produced at the height of Medieval Constantinopolitain culture.
This class is not difficult on a week by week basis, though the term paper at the end was quite difficult. If you are interested in the material, each class is fascinating, though if you are not, I could see it becoming wearisome.
This class is an absolute gem at Harvard. Among the kindest, most personable, and most passionate teachers at Harvard teaching about a subject on which she is among the foremost experts in the world. On top of that, the class is only about 12 people, so you get to know your fellow students and Prof. Kalavrezou herself. Finally, a chance to explore a really interesting period/region of art history that not many people in the world will ever get to learn about in such depth!
This class is a hidden gem in the HAA department. Not only is Professor Kalavrezou the most charming lecturer, she makes you understand her passion for the objects and the slightly out-of-the-way field of Byzantine Art. The readings are light, there is only one paper, the lectures are always packed full of beautiful things that you will likely never see in any other HAA class. We also had a guest lecture with Professor Eurydice Georganteli, numismatist extraordinaire (I never thought coins were interesting before her lecture), and a trip to Dumbarton Oaks in D.C.! This was a wonderful experience, which really cemented our understanding of the objects we had seen in slides all semester. 

If you are a concentrator, this will definitely broaden your horizons and make you look at Modern art and all other art that has come later in a completely different way. Very enriching.

I cannot recommend this class enough.
This is a great class.  The material is extremely interesting, as is the history that is also discussed in class.  The professor is really knowledgeable.  The seminar had a nice mix of teaching and discussion, and the chance to look over and discuss facsimiles in a group was great.
Byzantine Art is magnificent and professor Kalavrezou's experience and knowledge unparalleled.
This class is astonishingly beautiful--take it and live!
Make sure you like art history, you get a lot of art and need to learn the history.
This is an excellent small seminar class for students planning to learn more about a lesser known but very important and beautiful area of art. The readings are carefully selected and a good combination of lecture and discussion during class meetings helps students to sharpen their observation and analytical skills. If you are interested in exploring Byzantine art, this course is a great way of getting acquainted with the field.
