Prof. McCormick is really great. I enjoyed the lectures very very much. If only we had more time than 60 minute in each class. Also, the project prompt is AWESOME. I haven't enjoyed myself that much in completing coursework after getting into college. There are interesting and creative short assignments such as imaging our own teahouse which are also a delight to complete and to contemplate over. Seize the opportunity and take the course!
Great course. You get exposed to a diverse cross section of Japanese art and architecture and you get to do some really awesome projects and interact with incredible pieces of art from the local museum.
This course was a fascinating introduction to the artistic traditions of eastern asia! Definitely take it!
Such a fun and easy class, where you talk about incredibly interesting material! What more could you ask for? Professor McCormick is engaging and a total expert. She is a real person without the self-important professor air. I knew nothing about the history of Japanese art before and I found every lecture to be very very interesting, and I didn't really need to put much effort into it. You get to visit the MFA and the Fogg, do an art project, and there is just a short paper for a final, and I actually learned some stuff that I haven't immediately forgotten. Take it!
Professor McCormick and Steffani make this class very accessible, interesting, and are supportive of students. If you put time into it, they'll be enthusiastic about giving you help. The visit to the tearoom and the museum really connected material learned in class.
Have fun! This class makes learning so enjoyable
This was a fantastic course. Prof McCormick is great and very accessible outside of class. She made a point of really getting to know all of the students in the class, which I thought was awesome. The assignments are fun and manageable, and there is never too much reading. One of my favorite HAA classes I've taken!
Professor McCormick is wonderful! The class is really enjoyable and manageable.
If you're interested in Japanese art, than this class is definitely worthwhile. It covers a wide time span, so there's a lot of material, but it's really nice to be able to better understand the artworks. The assignments are really interesting as well, and there's 'hands-on' experience with culture in the form of a tea ceremony. Overall, I really enjoyed the class.
Professor McCormick and Steffani are AMAZING! They do their best to make time to meet or simply discuss art with you. Both have a genuine love for Japanese art that permeates the classroom and learning environment. As for workload, the scroll project is great fun, and the papers are not too bad. I highly recommend taking this course!!
McCormick is an excellent lecturer. The section component of this class is very thorough. The assignments are incredibly interesting but the workload isn't too bad.
This class is a wonderful introduction both to Japanese art and to the study of art history for anyone interested in either. Professor McCormick gives excellent lectures, and the course readings were really interesting.
I had never taken an art history course before, and this course opened my eyes. Melissa's lectures are accessible and inspiring. I would wake up some days feeling really depressed and low. I would trudge to Sackler for class and as soon as I sat down and Melissa started lecturing, I felt my worries fall away as I was swept away through the world of Japanese art. It taught me a new way of looking and being. I loved it!
Overall an easy class-not a burden. McCormick is delightful and so is Steffani. Make sure you go to lecture because participating is great and one of the only ways to reinforce what I learnt; memorizing the names of artists & paintings is not simple.
It's considerably more test (like...slide identification) based than most HAA classes.  Whether that is a positive or negative is entirely up to you.  Good lectures.  Not too difficult.
This is a wonderful course and I would highly recommend taking it.
Professor McCormick is simply marvelous, and the material covers a broad scope of art at a depth that is perfect for the time we have.
When else will you get to learn about Japanese art from an expert?  This class is great for the intellectually curious.
Fantastic lectures! Minimal work. However, note that learning the names of Japanese artists is very time consuming.
Read your textbook! Surprisingly helpful and interesting.
This is a wonderful, wonderful, wonderful course. If there's any way you can fit it into your schedule, you should do your absolute best to squeeze it in. The material is a joy to study and learn, but Professor McCormick is really what makes the class a standout. TAKE IT, AND LEARN, AND ENRICH YOUR LIFE.
HAA 18k is amazing! It is a great way to learn about Japanese art and culture, while also engaging in really fun and memorable hands-on activities, such as participating in a tea ceremony and making a traditional-style hand scroll. Also, Professor McCormick is a great lecture and a wonderful person. Take this course!
This class is very informative and interesting, with an amazing professor, who offers ample support. If you have any interest in Japanese art, you must take this class.
Melissa McCormick is a great professor who gives very effective lectures, and Paisid is a great TF
It's a very fun class that provides a very good foundation for understanding Japanese art and art trends through history.
