This class is a good overview of modern and contemporary African American art. You will come away with a good understanding of the major African American artists in the past 100 years and will have some good conversations surrounding the overlap between African American identity and the museum as a bureaucratic institution. However, class could be, at times, a little dry and somewhat all over the place. Professor Lewis is incredibly smart, kind, and knowledgable, but she is not a fantastic teacher in the classroom. She tends to look for the "correct" answer, rather than promoting honest discussion and sometimes self-promotes herself in a way that can feel a little uncomfortable. She also missed 2 classes and scheduled a 5 hour class on the last day during reading week, which was a lot (but not entirely her fault). Overall, this course is pretty good and will only get better with time as it becomes more organized, and Professor Lewis gets into the swing of things as a teacher.
This course is excellent if you have a previous interest in museums. Although the focus is on African American Art, it is more about the museum as an institution. You will get many opportunities to hear from museum directors and staff members who will help you curate your own exhibit. It is more about cultural theory than concrete visual analysis, so previous knowledge or experience in African American Studies would be helpful.
Engaging and necessary.
Beautiful and meaningful class with strong content that makes you totally involved with blackness in many different levels.
While this class had a really interesting premise, I found some of the course to be problematic. First, it really isn't an introductory level class. Often times someone would bring up an artist or writer that the rest of the class didn't know anything about, and instead of Professor Lewis clarifying for everyone, a conversation would continue about that topic. Second, although there was a good amount of reading required each week, I didn't think that our discussions were grounded in that material. I felt that many of the comments were not grounded in the readings, and that they were often too abstract. I didn't think that Professor Lewis did a good job facilitating discussion. However, the final project was a great deal of fun.
Open your eyes, heart, and mind, and be prepared for work that will demand the best of you while at times deeply challenging you emotionally. Not one moment of this class is spent unwisely.
The material in this class is important and the professor is brilliant. However, this is a demanding class and it may be challenging to access the professor.
