The difficulty comes from the need to memorize specifics, if you give yourself time to do this, it is not as intimidating as it may seem.
This is the single most confusing class I've ever taken - not in terms of material, although all those statues blend together after awhile, but in expectations. You're supposed to know everything (I think they forget we are not all HAA experts...) for the quizzes, which just becomes unreasonable after awhile, and the worst part is that there is no prep or indication of this given beforehand. I think it could be a really good class if the range of material covered on the quizzes in particular is scaled down, or at least if people know what they're getting into, but honestly this class caused me a lot of unnecessary stress, even though I did pretty well. You also have to seek out a lot of guidance, which kind of sucks when you sometimes don't even know in what you need the guidance (e.g. the final paper format/rules/research/etc.).
Great class! Take it! Thoroughly interesting, informative, fun.
The course is a good foundation in the sculpture of antiquity. It is a good way for HAA concentrators to fulfill a premodern requirement. It is an intro-level course, so it is not too demanding, although it does demand 4 quizzes and a long-ish (10-12 pp) research paper at the end. I would definitely recommend to HAA students looking to get a premodern course and an intro-level course out of the way at once. Also, just note that it is primarily a class on Ancient Greek sculpture - Rome is not heavily emphasized.
Great class, fun professor, really interesting material! TF is so nice. A little bit of historical background would be good to have, though.
The quizzes and tests are very difficult but are graded pretty leniently. The lectures are usually interesting, but sometimes a bit dry.
This course is wonderful.  If you like art, antiquity, or architecture; if you've ever wondered what the Parthenon really means; if you want to walk through  a gallery of half broken busts and figures and know something about them--take this course!  The work was not overwhelming at all--you basically had to show up to class and study briefly for each quiz to do fine.  The tests were not too bad, and the research paper was easy to complete after having payed attention throughout the semester.
This class is extremely interesting and not very taxing. However, be prepared for a somewhat disorganized class, and you have to really be interested in the material. If you are, however, this will be an amazing class!
The class is excellent.  The quizzes are truly painful, but you will survive.
I would tell future students to take really detailed notes and pay attention carefully in lecture.  The professor knows the topics well and sometimes goes very fast.
You will learn a lot!
make sure you stay up with all the readings and come to all the lectures because that is where the quiz material comes from!
