Great learning opportunity.
This course was consistently stress-free and fun! Though you do have to keep up with the readings and images to do well on quizzes, exams, etc., Professor Kim is very enthusiastic and helpful throughout the whole process! The thangkas and statues that we got the pleasure to study are all amazing, and the multiple field trips are unforgettable.
First of all, the subject material is fascinating. It is amazing how little exposure most Westerners have to this type of art, when it represents such a rich and exquisite canon. The stories, historical and religious, were typically totally new to me, but brought tons of meaning to a form of art I knew very little about going in. Overall, this class is phenomenal. Professor Kim does so much for her students, and you can tell she loves both the material and the opportunity to pass along that passion. There are so many ways to engage with the material, from the online discussion forum to field trips to film screenings to open-ended research projects, that anyone's unique skill set and specific interests can be applied to the topic to their best result. Professor Kim definitely wants everyone to succeed, and is super approachable and provides great feedback. She also brings in snacks and sets up awesome opportunities outside of class all the time. I really don't know how you could top this course!
The world of the Himalayas requires a lot of knowledge to understand -- it's not like you're learning French cinema, where many people  can take their understanding of the Western cultural backdrop for granted.
Attention non-HAA concentrators taking this as an elective: This will be a very difficult course for you, especially if you do not have a background in art analysis and Buddhism.  Be prepared to do more work than your peers because it is a difficult seminar with a steep learning curve.  However, this doesn't mean I recommend against the course.  It is hard work that is extremely engaging and fulfilling.  Prof. Kim is one of the most accessible professors I've ever had.  YOU have to be the one to ask for help when you need to because she will do anything in her power to help you.  This is an opportunity you don't want to miss, just don't expect it to be a breeze.
This is a good course for those who are curious about Buddhist/Himalayan art from a strictly art historical perspective (meaning you are interested in styles, dating, geography, comparison, and occasional political context). Students interested in Buddhist Studies and/or religion might find themselves wishing for a richer cultural contextualization, such as how works of art function in a ritual context and/or in relationship to Buddhist philosophy or religious practice. That said, the bulk of the second half of the semester is focused on your own research paper, and so you can pursue such topics independently which is great. Dr. Kim is very supportive of this.
It is an amazing class that brings you to the most mysterious part of the world: the Himalayas. It will not only enrich your knowledge of its culture and art, but also lead you to think deeply about the relationship between art and religion, colonialism, orientalism, and political propaganda.
Dr. Kim has a wealth of knowledge about Himalayan and Asian art and is really a gem. She is very sharp and will really help you better understand the material.  I would highly recommend her classes, especially to students in East Asian or South Asian Studies or the study of religion, looking for a course outside of their department. She will make you work hard, but you won't regret it. Be prepared to do some field trips to museums outside of class, including New York -- but these are some of the best parts of her class!
It is a privilege to be able to work so closely with someone as dedicated to teaching as Prof. Kim is. She is one of the best professors I have encountered during my time at Harvard. Week in, week out, she personally responds to all students written responses, recommends sources, and incorporates students areas of interest or questions into the lecture. The level of time and energy that she invests into her class and her students is astounding. Do not be intimidated if you have no background in Asia. Prof. Kim has a gift for making the material she teaches not just accessible but also incredibly fun. You might walk in knowing nothing about the subject and walk out completely passionate about it. No matter what your prior knowledge is, she will find a way to support your learning. This course also offers ample opportunities to examine works in person, which is so enriching to your understanding of the objects.
Easily one of my favorite courses at Harvard. Prof. Kim is a true gem of the department and is a fantastic lecturer. You will be amazed by how much you will learn about Himalayan art and culture in a single semester. The field trip to NYC and the trips to various local museums were highlights of the class!
