I would encourage students with an interest in contemporary art to take the course, as it covers key issues and debates that are pertinent in the field right now. It also allows for helpful reflection on the status of the field itself and encourages students to think about their own place in it.
It's a good class because everyone was open to the opinion of others and different ways of thinking. There was never a right or wrong way to do things just a free zone for talking about ideas and expressing opinions. Carrie really helped foster this sort of attitude with her easy teaching style and positive attitude
This course maintained a collaborative atmosphere as students and professor grappled with largely uncharted material. The course managed to cover a large amount of ground in theories and histories of contemporary art without sacrificing depth of analysis.
Depends largely on your interest.
This class will help you be hip on the latest theory of the world of contemporary art.
This is a fantastic course that dives into contemporary theory and deals richly with issues of globalisation, the market, neo-liberal economics, biennials, museums, curation and the stuff of contemporary art itself. It deals with the processes and forces that are inherent in so much of twenty-first century life and visual culture, it is relevant and fascinating for all fields.
A fantastic coursean interesting and urgent topic dealt with through a plurality of perspectives by an extremely diverse set of people. Fun and very useful.
Wonderful crash course in 'the contemporary.' Syllabus and approach to the class innovatively (not just reading 4 articles every week) frame the topic. Carrie couldn't be more invested in/connected to the issues & scholarship. Raises fascinating methodological questions: what is art history? criticism? thought? Not really a comprehensive survey of artists/works.
really wonderful class that will expand the way you think about art and the present day. the discussion is largely student-led, so make sure that you have points that you want to make. be prepared to argue and defend your viewpoint.
I would suggest that they take this class while at Harvard. It was excellent and one of the best classes I have taken in quite some time.
Carrie is obviously enthusiastic about the subject matter, viewing the contemporary as challenging art history to engage with its own history, as well as the world in which it operates.
If you do not have a good background on art history or art theory, think about it before taking it. The course is a thorough discussion on art criticism and art theory and, because this things do not exist in a vacuum, debates and previous polemics are always recuperated.  So a good background on those areas would be recommended.
This was easily one of my favorite courses at Harvard. Carrie is phenomenal and the discussions we had in seminar were extremely generative.
This class is not about contemporary art but about particular theories of what contemporary art is by largely Western thinkers. If you luckily end up with a good cohort of students like I did, the class discussions can be very stimulating. Carrie Lambert-Beatty is a great close-reader of texts and well-versed in these theories, and is adept at leading discussions. However, you will be getting a "conservative" model of thinking about contemporary art in this course.
This class will show you the difficulties academics within art history are having in studying "the contemporary." You will receive a thorough understanding of how various scholars have attempted to tackle the term, with a primary focus on the problem of the art world's "globalism." Discussions will revolve around the ethical conundrum of being an art historian in the West who writes on contemporary art.
If you have the opportunity to take a course with this professor, do so.
