THIS IS THE BEST CLASS I HAVE TAKEN AT HARVARD. It's not even close. The class is intense, you put in a lot of work and learn a ton. There is absolutely nothing more rewarding than holding something that you made in your hands. Mark and Mike push you to create stellar projects in the most encouraging way possible. They are incredible. And there is not enough space on this website to explain how unbelievably committed Alex is to helping you every step along the way. He is a saint. If you can, take this course!!!
It will likely be the most fun class you take at Harvard!
This is a course focused on production rather than theorization through an exploration of material properties. You get to see your ideas materialized and tested for both aesthetic and structural integrity. Yes, its a time commitment, but the commitment is to learning a set of skills. This is by far the best class I have taken at Harvard.
You could spend as little or as much time as you wanted in the shop and you will get out of it what you put into it.
This course is amazing in terms of how it makes you think in regards to building. However, it takes copious amounts of time, so be ready for that.
This class is a lot of work but is worth it. It is a completely different class than the ones you have taken before. The lectures do not have much to do with the projects, but they are really engaging. The projects themselves take up a lot of your time, but the discoveries that you make are well worth the time put in. Everyone is available to help at any point and want to make sure that the project is the best it can be.
Regardless of your concentration, this class will effect how you think about what you're interested in. Be prepared for lots of teamwork.
The best class that I've taken at Harvard. The course is rigorous without taking itself too seriously. I feel like I grew so much technically over the term, and will never be able to look at architecture/furniture/woodwork the same again. While frustrating at points, working in teams throughout the term made this course so much more fun and rewarding.
It is an awesome experience to be able to build something large-scale with teammates, really design and consider each detail in a structural framework, and to be able to work with "real" materials outside of model-making.  Though it does take a large time commitment (anywhere from 15-30 hours a week during project-building), the skills you gain and partners you find are well worth the time.  Mark, Mike, and Alex are a triple-threat teaching force!  Whether you're a concentrator or just interested in this as an elective, you'll have a ton of fun and gain practical skills, as well as an intuition for structural physics.  One of the best courses I've ever taken at Harvard.
As said by the name: if you want to take a construction lab, offered in the graduate school of design, then have no doubts; take this class as if your life depended on it. 

We had an incredible amount of resources at our disposal, an extremely dedicated and helpful staff, challenging and rewarding projects, and overall an excellent introduction to the practical aspects of construction and design. You get to do things comparable to the core classes in the graduate school of architecture, which is truly awesome.

This doesn't mean the course is easy. You'll spend a lot of time in the wood shop honing your craftsmanship and building whatever bizarre thing you designed. The class has a one hour lecture and a three hour review on friday, which can be long if you are not interested in critiquing your classmate's creation. Also make sure you have time cleared during the week for building. Working at the front end of the time limit is the best thing you can do to yourself.

Also, do not pay attention to the "concentrators only" tag, they welcome other backgrounds and points of view. The class is especially interested in the "hands on" aspect and in aesthetic qualities, not in the general culture and theoretical side. 

In sum, I would say that if you have the interest and time you should not even dream of missing this fabulous opportunity.
This class is a lot of fun. You develop real design and construction skills in a supportive team environment. Very manageable workload for the GSD. Mark, Mike, and Alex are all friendly, helpful, and very invested, which was much appreciated.
Such a wonderful class! Take this to learn a lot and have a great time doing it!
Fantastic! So much fun! Rarely does one come by a class that is this unforgettable!
If I could take this course again I would! I loved ever second (even the all nighters)! Mike, Mark, and Alex were so much fun to work with. This was the best class I have taken in my time at Harvard!
Incredible course that taught me how to think creatively with practical constraints. Very rewarding, very fun. Great to work in the woodshop. The time I put into the course was always engaging and worthwhile.  I am glad I took this after taking the first architecture studio, since it was helpful (but by no means necessary) to have Cad/Rhino/Photoshop/Illustrator experience.
This was one of the best courses I've taken. You'll get a chance to learn priceless hands-on design and construction practices and leave the course feeling like a wood-shop pro. This course will challenge you to think critically and creatively about space, construction, aesthetic, material, performance, and display. The course culminates in a large final project that it truly exciting to create. I know that every member of the class had an absolute blast and we would continue taking a "part two" if possible. Michael is a great instructor and brings a ton of fun and enthusiasm to the class.
It will ACTUALLY change your Harvard experience. It will give you not only a whole array of very particular (awesome) skills, but will also give you the confidence, drive, and dedication you often can't find in other classes. The hands-on experience is something you truly cannot replace.
If you are interested in architecture, design, engineering, or just how stuff is made, this will be the best academic experience of your time at Harvard.
