This class takes a lot of time but is well worth it.  I walked away feeling much more cultured about art and life in general.
Very interesting and it makes you feel very cultured. I can now go to pretty much any museum that displays modern art and understand it.
Start making your slide flashcards early.
This class is wonderful; it really pulled my interpretation of modern art to a completely new level.  I would not, however, take this class if you are no prone to enjoying highly conceptualized artworks and theoretical readings, as the latter portion of the class relies heavily on them (and I know it's not everyone's favorite cup of tea).
The material is interesting, the professor is excellent, and the class is a good introduction to modern art--take it!
While the class is pretty easy through the year, you have to really buckle down and learn everything during reading period.
I feel I learned so much from this class.
As a general introduction to modern art, this class is a good bet.  Although there is a ton of reading, it isn't particularly necessary to understanding the course. Also, be warned that Professor Lajer-Burcharth often takes a pyscho-analytic approach to the works, which can seem pretty narrowing at times.
Interesting, but not as an introductory course.  Need prior information in art history.  The exams are incredibly hard and difficult to excel on when taking a full course load.  Professor has unrealistic expectations for students.
If you like Art - it is a great class to take - definitely better than HAA 10
This was a great HAA course especially if you just want to take an art history course but aren't necessarily a concentrator.
The lectures tend to be a bit on the metaphysical side and get even more so as the hour progresses but that is an aspect particular to this subject matter.
don't take this class. professor, tf, material, section horrible. stay away!!! don't even take this class pass fail!
I would recommend to people who are interested in Modern Art, and willing to put in time to the readings and memorization of images.
I recommend it only to art history concentrators
I would probably not recommend this course because of its unnecessary focus on feminist art and the volume of memorization required for the final. I felt that the final was not particularly difficult, but that it was not a true representation of the approach that we had taken towards engaging the material during the rest of the course.
The professor and the TFs are great, the course is well-organized, and the subject matter is very interesting.
I gained so many interesting insights in Professor Ewa Lajer-Burcharth's lectures! And the sections TF's are so knowledgeable and attentive to students-- even though I've never taken an art history course before, I felt right at home learning about various artworks, artists, and movements.
This is a fun and engaging course. The professor and TFs are really knowledgeable and helpful and the course material is really eye-opening. I have always loved art, but I never knew this much about its history. It put a new spin on the old works of art I always loved, and ultimately encouraged me to concentrate in HAA.
If you are interested in acquiring a general knowledge about art since 1700, this is the perfect course.
The workload is not bad at all UNTIL you hit the week of the midterm and final.  Then, you have to memorize an extremely large amount of material.  There are also tons of lengthy readings for this course that I don't think many people actually do completely.  As long as you have a general summary of every reading, you can incorporate the main ideas into the essays on the midterm and final and you should be fine.  The two take-home essay assignments are quite fun and give you lots of freedom.  They aren't too long either - between 5 and 7 pages.
Take HAA 10 before this course, readings are unhelpful
I would warn them of the memorization burdens and sometimes insignificant lecture topics as well as some potentially awful teaching fellows.
Great introduction to modern art. Lectures are always interesting, although Professor Lajer-Burcharth may be a tad bit difficult to hear.
This was a great survey course spanning a large period of time; the professor was really wonderful, and overall, the class was enjoyable and painless. I learned a great deal.
If you have an interest in art and art history, this is a really great class. I chose to take this over the basic history of art class that gives a full overview from the beginning of art history until now, because I wanted a more focused course. I think this was a good decision and if you have even the slightest background in art history, I would definitely recommend taking this more specialized modern art class. The reading is tough to get through sometimes, but it's easy to skim it and still get by in class and in exams as long as you know the basic ideas. If you master slide memorization and you have pretty good writing skills, the class shouldn't be too difficult and is genuinely a really interesting course.
HAA 70 is a great overview of the important developments not only of modern art, but of modern Western culture vis-a-vis art, for the past four centuries.  Eva Lajer-Burcharth is reason enough to take the class, and the teaching staff only enhance the quality of the course.
There is a feminist slant to most of the interpretations offered by the professor, but it's still really interesting and she covers a lot of ground.
The professor is very knowledgeable, and this course is a great way to become familiar with a broad period of art history.
Great overview of modern art such that one can critically analyze and discuss all types of modern art after completing this course. I liked the ongoing theme of the body, gender and sexuality and found it relevant to many of the artworks studied...even though I'm a guy.
This class is great; the lectures are interesting and clear (she does speak too quickly at time), the assignments are spread out, the teaching fellows were engaged and supportive, and the material is academic and pragmatically relevant. You should do the readings, since they're mentioned in class, serve as the main points of discussion in session, and must be discussed in the midterm and exams. Plus, they are intriguing and provoking.
It is too easy for HAA concentrators, but too hard for anyone without an art history background. The reading is very conceptually challenging.
Really a great overview of modernity in art, covers a lot of art in an interesting way. Professor is excellent.
If you are a pretentious, upper-class, skinny white girl who grew up in Manhattan and have no clue how to actually produce a piece of art, I'm sure this bullshit would be just your flavor.  Eat it up.  Sotheby's will soon be auctioning off a piece of shit by Belgian artist Wim Delvoye, up to 3,000 GBP -- want that too?
Great variety of artwork studied without the course becoming disjointed and overbroad
Prof. Lajer-Burcharth is amazing!
The course is reasonably interesting, but it is largely skewed toward viewing art history through the lens of gender and sexuality.
it's a good chronology of major artists and works, but it doesnt go into depth about anything. if your'e new to art history, its a good course and covers a great period of art.
The professor is so articulate, poised, and elegant. There's too much memorization
Just take it. Don't hesitate. You couldn't ask for a better introduction to both modern art and the field of art history as a whole.
There are probably easier Art History courses but if you don't mind memorizing slides. Burcharth is a great lecturer and you learn a lot.
A sheer pleasure to attend lecture.  Grants an aesthetic eye and history to the world outside of art.
The professor is amazing and so was my TF! It really helped me understand modern art.
A great way to understand modern art and taught by an awesome professor and teaching staff.
Professor Lajer-Burcharth is an incredible lecturer and art historian, but she doesn't always mention that some of her readings of works are unconventional.
This was a very, very smart class that taught me how to begin seeing art, but that had some very dense, very abstract moments.
The teacher is extremely knowledgable in every art history era discussed in the class, and the subject matter discussed--while being vast--was informative, new, and engaging.  My favorite class of the semester.
The class is easy and fun, but the reading is a waste of time.
Be prepared for a lot of reading and memorizing. I would recommend having previously taken at least one art history class. The first half of the course, 17th- mid 19th century, is exceptionally well taught and engaging. You will learn a lot. The second half of the course feels rushed and I do not feel I came away from it with a solid grasp on many artistic movements we studied. Your TF might make or break the class. Section was a highlight for me.
you learn LOTS, especially if you don't know much about art to begin with. but there is a lot of course material, and cramming for the midterm/final becomes painful if you've been slacking off during the term
dense, but interesting, readings. the professor has a very specific approach (Foucault/Freud/feminist) to the materials. the first 2/3 of the course was very well taught and tied together. The last 1/3 about the more modern stuff could have been better. really nice and helpful TFs. overall a good class.
You will learn so much!
This class in all about sex, women in art, and vagina. It is an interesting take but definitely not for everyone. Also the professor creates a new word every other sentence.
take art history!! it will change your life!
This class is a wonderful introduction to modern art.
It's not a difficult course but have to be willing to put in the time to study for midterm and final.
The lectures were fascinating, be prepared to start memorizing paintings early, trying to make an effort to remember the year, artist, medium of each painting after each week makes memorizing the large number at the end a lot easier; you cannot possibly memorize all the paintings in the week before your midterms or finals
Lectures are good, beware of sections, the exams underestimate the students' analytical potential.
Read the articles the week they are assigned so you don't get behind on readings. It is very difficult to catch up and maintain your grasp on the material once you have fallen behind. Same goes for the slides: don't wait until the end to memorize them! The lectures in this course were packed full with vivid descriptions and assessments of art. Professor Lajer-Burcharth has a gift for the spoken word! If you get a good TF and keep on top of he readings this class is both enjoyable and fascinating!!
It is interesting, but the readings are lengthy and don't seem to always correspond with lectures.
this class was extremely interesting and well-taught
Be prepared because the exam prep is difficult, but ultimately it's a great course. There are a lot of readings, none of which I did, and I did fine in the course, but I already knew a lot about Art History. This course would be significantly more difficult if you did the readings, but in general, its a great course and genuinely expands your knowledge exponentially!
One of my top three favorite classes at Harvard. The final is absolutely killer but everything that I learned during the semester was well worth it. I can now walk into a museum and be able to speak about a good number of individual paintings, as well as more general themes, movements, artists, etc. Very Louvre/MoMa heavy, covers everything from Monet to Van Gogh to Picasso to Pollock to Warhol, skips on the not-as-interesting renaissance material and emphasizes all the most well-known and beautiful. Professor Lajer-Burcharth's lectures are beautiful and wonderfully synthesized, could listen to her speak forever! Very sexuality/feminism heavy, but that's to be expected.
The lectures on Cezanne and Seurat actually changed my life. The readings are one after another brilliant and engaging. Professor Lajer-Burcharth's lectures were the best I've had at Harvard. Take this over HAA 10.
Great survey of modern art across centuries and countries and the social themes that inevitably became inextricably linked to their formal practice
Very interesting but potentially difficult for non-HAA students
GREAT COURSE!!! I was kind of hesitant the first week because I couldn't understand her accent at first but I got used to it pretty quickly and it was never really a problem. Each lecture was incredibly insightful and definitely made me feel a deeper engagement with artworks when i visit museums now. It's also a good idea to keep some notes on your readings because you will need to reference some of them for the midterm and the final.
It is a good overview, if you want to learn about the whole modern movement of art since it encompasses a large part of the western tradition.
If your idea of "introductory level" includes reading 150+ pages a week deeply steeped in Lacanian theory and memorizing the artist, title, precise medium ("mixed media" doesn't cut it) and EXACT DATE of over 300 images ranging from 1700 to present day, take this class.  Otherwise, avoid it at all costs unless they overhaul the absurd requirements.  Truly a shame since the material is interesting and Ewa is a great lecturer.
The course explores sexuality and body themes very heavily. If you're looking for more objective readings of art history, be prepared to link many of the movements on the syllabus to the body and gender.
The readings are tough and get tiresome, but the subject matter is really interesting and I feel like I have a really solid understanding of the major trends in modern art history.
A great survey of modern art from the 1700s onwards (the three centuries are spread out pretty evenly across the semester, so there is no strict focus on the 20th century like one might suspect). Lajer-Burcharth is an intelligent lecturer. Expect difficult, theoretical readings (sometimes balanced out with really interesting primary sources).
Great course! These are lectures that I truly looked forward to going to, which is not something that I have previously experienced at Harvard. This class also extends far beyond "art" in a really significant way - you really get a sense of cultural changes in terms of how gender, class, and "otherness" are treated throughout history.  Also, it's not super work-intensive, and I really felt like I got a lot out of the paper/essay topics we were given; they were true intellectual exercises.However, don't expect to get a "survey of art" from this course, as the title suggests.  The course focuses a lot on gender/class issues and I think the professor's research interests, oftentimes at the expense of a broader overview of art history.  Some previous background may be helpful, for this reason.
Interesting content but would recommend only if you are really interested in modern art. A bit too difficult if you are not a concentrator. Will help you to have a greater appreciation for modern art when you visit museums!
I started off in this course with high hopes and expectations, but was disappointed almost immediately.  There are much more rewarding modern art surveys at Harvard, covering a narrower date range.  Professor Lajer-Burcharth's approach of beginning the class in the 17th century and going all the way up to the 90's is interesting, but really just feels too shallow the way it is right now.  The class needs to either get more difficult and detailed or cover a smaller date range before I can enthusiastically recommend it to my friends.
very interesting course, but concepts sometimes went straight over my head, as someone who has no background in art history.  sometimes had no idea what the professor was talking about - sounded like a bunch of abstract words strung together
I think that any student coming into this class needs to be able to read a painting (or work of art) and talk extensively about it.  If you are unfamiliar in this respect, you may quickly get lost in the course.
Great course, but like any survey, leaves out a lot.
Awesome class! But only take it if you're ready to memorize 400 works of art's titles, artists and EXACT DATES for the final. THAT IS MISERABLE.
You have to memorize A LOT of paintings.
Great overview of modern art, explores many themes, just beware that you will study nothing until the midterm and final hit, when all of a sudden you have 200 images to memorize.
