The teaching staff is fantastic. It's the first class I've ever thought was a real meeting of the minds -- not a rehearsed performance.
The course exposes you to some great material. It's a lot of fun to watch old TV shows and movies and analyze them in a different light.
ABSOLUTELY TAKE THIS CLASS.
This is a fun, unique class.  If you like television and are interested in learning about a really interesting aspect of Jewish culture, I would highly recommend it.  The shows you watch are great, and you generally wouldn't think about or get the chance to watch them on your own.
This class is great!  Professor Greenblatt and Eitan are amazing, the viewing is unbelievable, and the readings are so interesting.
The subject matter is very interesting, and it is an easy class to take as long as you make sure to keep up with viewings and readings.
Awesome, awesome class.  It may be a Jewish Studies class in name, but you learn about a ton - Jewish history, sure, but also TV history, race relations, and general American history.  Oh, and you get to watch great TV (and some OK TV too).  I recommend with enthusiasm.
This is a fun class with interesting course material, and very kind and thoughtful teaching staff.
This course was awesome. We learned about history, religion, and television, and the professor is so nice and helpful. You have the opportunity to take the course in a direction that you're interested in, and there is a lot of flexibility on types of assignments.
Professor Greenblatt is a sweet woman and knows her field, but lectures will be a bit all over the place. Honestly, I took the class pass/fail and didn't put on the effort I should have.
This is a very good class.  The work is manageable and very fun since all of the course material is made up of iconic television episodes.
The materials in this class are great. The lectures lack structure, but you can learn a lot from this class if you choose toit really depends on how much work you want to put into it.
Counts for history and you watch TV for homework. Perfect if you are interested in the development of culture on television.
This is a pretty laid back class about a very interesting topic. Professor Greenblatt has really good insight on the topic, plus you get to watch some pretty cool shows.
Definitely take this class if you want to learn a lot about Jewish presence on the TV screen. I took it because I want to go into Hollywood, and I think this class fits in well into that track.
Fun class, especially if you like TV and movies. A must as a senior class.
This course requires relatively consistent work throughout the semester (viewings every week, and viewing responses approximately every other, plus 4 other assignments), but the work is generally very easy and not very time-consuming. The course material and overall concept of the course is interesting and provides good conversation for dinner parties, but the class is sort of disjointed and disorganized. Professor Greenblatt is very smart and sweet and invested in the topics we cover, but not the greatest discussion leader/lecturer.
If you can keep up with the viewings and readings it will be rewarding - but no one will be on your case to do so, so you really have to be ready to do it just because you want to. Interesting and fun material, and I'd definitely say this is the epitome of a class where you get out what you put in.
The material is really interesting and the shows/movies we get to watch are really fun. The class itself is a little disorganized but the professor and TF are really great and helpful.
This content is very interesting and if you like TV, the course will give you a new perspective on some famous shows that you may have seen before. It requires very little work throughout the semester.
This course, both in its television and literature components, is fascinating.  You will explore Jewish trends on the small screen and in film.  Professor Greenblatt is engaging and enthusiastic about the material--and also an incredibly kind person to get to know.  Seniors: take this.  It's a great elective.
