Very helpful if you want more exposure to social science methods and their underlying methodological assumptions.
Read selectively and efficiently.  You'll read interesting stuff, but it's not worth reading everything.
This is a TERRIFIC course for Social Studies concentrators; it truly shows the underlying mindsets that tie different social scientific disciplines together, and provides invaluable intellectual lenses through which to examine the most pressing social scientific questions today.
Take it! Get as small a section as possible. Do your reading carefully -- you won't regret it. Visit the professors in office hours. Do a good job and you'll love the course and love yourself for taking it.
Be patient, go talk to Don and the professors.  Think things through.
This kind of class is something you can't get anywhere else. If you call yourself a social scientist, you should take this class!
This isn't an easy course but it is very rewarding. I also think it is great to take in the beginning of social studies because it gives you a good idea of what kind of tools you might want to use in social studies. It gives you the freedom to think about the topics you are interested, while forcing you to branch out and explore new approaches and fields of study.
Good class, but make sure you're interested in theory. Hopefully they put more methodology in next year and a bit less theory.
Fascinating philosophical investigations.  The readings will make the rest of your essays in college more nuanced and better argued.
No Social Studies concentrator should be allowed to graduate without taking this amazing course. It bridges the divide between theory and practice, shedding light on the many debates that rage in the philosophy of social science and clarifying the differences between the various social sciences.
Some of the debates are tedious, but the questions underlying this course are important. You are required to take it for Social Studies, so make the best of it.
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard or in my life. It was well run and incredible! There will be new staff next year but the course should still be fantastic.
One of the reasons this class was so good was that the other students were some of the brighter Social Studies concentrators. Consequently the level of discussion was very high.
You have to like theory, but if you do, this course is fantastic!
This class will challenge the way you think, and push you to reform your thoughts and ideas by being aware of alternate arguments as well as potentially similar ones.
Do all the readings, particularly Taylor. Stay on them or they will pile up too quickly to catch back up on. I wish I would have gone to office hours, as Don takes student interaction and questions very seriously and I appreciate that. Make sure to be very clear about particular distinctions between explanation, prediction, causation, etc.
Superb for co-enrollment with SS10. Thomas is amazing, but he'll be gone, so beware! Don, if he stays, is one of the best TFs I've run into. It's well constructed, not too hard, and very helpful.
This is SO much better than SS10. This class made me glad I chose Social Studies. It was extremely interesting, but the workload was manageable. However, the great lectures by Ponniah really made this class, so no guarantees on how it will hold up with new instructors.
Although this course is challenging, it is well worth the effort. The principles that I learned are applicable to any field that I study, social sciences or not. I learned not just theories, but also how to think about what contributions the theories make to their respective fields and how they gain the knowledge that they contribute. I highly recommend this class to anyone who has ever wondered how we know what we know in the social sciences.
SS40 gives purpose to the sometimes backbreaking and frustrating work of SS10. However it also functions completely on its own as an extremely interesting, informative and ultimately useful class with the Social Studies department.
Teaches you a lot about the big debates in social sciences - a great companion to Social Studies 10
This class is phenomenal for getting a great grasp of social science. It's less difficult than social studies 10, but still challenging. This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, although I took it under Thomas Ponniah, who won't be teaching at Harvard next year.
It provides a wonderful overview of the theories you will be working with in all of the social sciences, history etc. It provides a good framework for thinking about and understanding research from multiple perspectives.
Take this course! Although Professor Ponniah will no longer be teaching it, it will open your eyes to a lot of the things that we take for granted in social science research. By the end, you'll really appeciate the question: "How do we know?" You won't be bogged down with purely theoretical concepts because of the guest lecturers and the teaching staff is very supportive. Easily my favorite class thus far at Harvard.
This course, more than any other, depends on you doing the readings with depth and thoughtfulness. If you do not do that, you're wasting your time.
Ask which are Prof Ponniah's lectures and go to those. Go to section religiously. Don't skip Charles Taylor or Rorty. Take notes during section.
The workload is relatively high, and although it is not required for Social Studies concentrators it is very useful in terms of learning about the variety of methodologies available for use when it comes to thesis writing.
It is a good introduction to methodology, and can help you think hard about how to approach your thesis.
Go to lecture and section. While you probably don't need to attend since the paper assignments and weekly responses are largely based on the readings, the lectures will provide the most meaningful aspects of the course. I often found the readings incomprehensible without section and thank the lectures for helping me better understand how to approach thesis research and writing.
This class is like medicine--you'll be glad that you took it, even if you don't enjoy it all that much during the actual class. The information is really useful for thinking about thesis, etc., and gives solid background understanding of the issues at work in the social sciences.
If the course is like it was this year, know that it will be highly theoretical and will not concentrate as much on the intersection between theory and practice that you may expect, like I did, at the beginning of the course. I thought the course was still interesting, but I'm not a theory person, and I ended up really disillusioned with the course starting half-way through because of these unfilled expectations for the course.
Very theoretical.
It's great if you're a social studies student. It helps you really think critically about the methodology you will pursue for your thesis and helps you anticipate the problems you may encounter. It also draws on some readings from social studies 10 so it helps you connect the sophomore tutorial to your thesis
It's a lot of work, so be prepared. It's very interesting, but it will get boring somewhere in the middle, so expect that.
Figure out which readings interest you and which don't and then stick to the latter.
Nice overview of some important questions that often get ignored.
Difficult class- need to really get into the material. However the content is really interesting. It's definitely a class that I got a lot out of and will definitely influence how I write my thesis and approach future coursework.
The teaching is excellent; do the readings and you will get a lot out of this class.  The workload is not bad and what you will learn will change your view of social science.
The amount of reading and difficulty of finding coherent threads between topics mean that it requires quite a bit of dedication in order to really get anything out of the course.
This is an excellent survey of the various methodologies in the social sciences and some of the controversies accompanying them, like subjectivity versus objectivity, participant-observation versus impartiality, etc.
Think! Go ahead. Even if you find no satisfactory answer to the question, "How do we know?" you and the world will be better for your thinking about these questions.
The readings are some of the most interesting material on social science available, and the guest lectures are a great experience.
The class is fast paced but it covers knowledge that is essential if you are planning on doing research. This class with make you think about methods in a way that most classes do not force you to do.
This class is a fantastic way to begin thinking about underlying issues in studying social phenomenon.  It has been incredibly valuable for me in terms of how to think about any social science course I take.  Still, it involves quite a bit of intense reading and careful writing.  Definitely take it if you find the material compelling.
I loved this course. The professors and the TF were great, and they were always very responsive to students. The course made me think in new ways about research methods; it has actually changed my perspective on what I want to do, and I think it will be really helpful when I write my thesis.
This course makes you think about the social sciences broadly, and your own (anticipated) work specifically in an entirely new and inspiring way. I have never taken a course before that is framed as a metatheory course. While this makes the content intellectually challenging, the rigor is equally matched by the insights you gain on the work of the social scientist, the sorts of theoretical and philosophical presuppositions upon which his/her work is grounded, and the resulting implications works in the social sciences create. Be warned that the course is difficult, however, if you stay abreast of the readings and seek help as needed, you are sure to be successful, and what is more, you will gain invaluable insights into the social sciences the likes of which are not to be found elsewhere.
Great class, I really recommend it and think that more social studies concentrators should take this class!
The staff are very helpful. Make sure you really engage with the readings so that you can understand all the nuances of the philosophical arguments in the readings!
SS40 is unlike any other class you'll take - you tackle all of the methodological assumptions that are pervasive in the readings you do in other courses and in the work you'll ultimately produce (at least if you're a Social Studies concentrator). Honestly, I don't know why it isn't required for all concentrators. While you'll likely be confused quite often with a lot of the details, the bigger pictures are often easier to understand and very informative when it comes to writing for other courses.
This class can be a bit too "philosophical" at times and can get a little caught up in material that doesn't seem to applicable to research or thesis work in the present. That said, the methodology component of the curriculum as well as the case studies and guest lectures are all really interesting and informative.
You just have to love social science or it will be a painful semester
This course is extremely well taught, in that all the lectures were compact and helpful in digesting the readings. The course materials are also interesting-- dense, but because we have weekly response posts, it helps to see what how other students unpacked the reading. We also have a peer exchange and conference of our final paper drafts, which was extremely helpful. This semester, the course was taught jointly by Eric and Bill, which worked out well.
This class is a thoughtful approach to thesis preparation, and makes you question whether or not social science research is beneficial. It covers topics that are crucial to your development as a social scientist, and is SUPER supportive and wonderful. All of my time spent on this class was pure joy.
This is a wonderful complement to Social Studies 10. It takes rather abstract ideas in social theory and makes them concrete, bringing out their applications in the social sciences. I think this should be a mandatory course for all social studies concentrators. I highly recommend this course, especially for those intending to write theses.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Your peers challenge you, and the reading is not overwhelming. Debating about rational theory and methodological individualism? It's the best.
An extremely rewarding, but tough class that should be required of all Social Studies concentrators. One of the best intellectual experiences I have had in my time at Harvard.
Taking this course was one of the best decisions in my time at Social Studies. As a bridge course between the theory of 10a/b and the applications in junior tutorial, this class gave me the tools to understand where social scientists are coming fromthe strengths of their methods, the assumptions they've made, the philosophy behind looking at a problem through ethnography rather than surveys, etcetera.
This class is quite a bit of work and reading, but very fulfilling if taken seriously. It broadened my ideas about the possibilities for social science research generally and in terms of my own thesis. It is probably heavier on the philosophy than most methods classes, but I think it did a good job of bridging the gap between theory and practice, which helped me understand how the seemingly disparate components of social studies interact.
It's easy and doesn't take much time to do the work, so you can certainly take it. I bet there are more interesting classes, though. Take something else.
Offers some decent help with thinking about thesis methodology, from some people whose opinions are very helpful. Assignments aren't too bad, and the teaching staff is very warm and friendly.
This class is tedious, but gave me a much better understanding of what it is exactly that I'm studying and doing in the Social Sciences. I thought that some of the material such as the books we read were very interesting, but the theory aspect of this course was very dry and tedious.
This course will change the way you view social science, or science of any kind, for that matter. A class that steers to mind toward the academic frame required for higher learning. Makes you an all round more thoughtful person.
I really enjoyed this course. It was a requirement but came to be one of my favorite courses. The ideas about the role and practice of social science were very interesting. Readings and course materials were interesting, as were lectures. The latter half of the course (methods) was more interesting than the first (philosophy).
This course is very interesting and helpful - you'll never write a paper the same way. Also, it was one of those courses where there were literally no assignments/readings that were not completely necessary, helpful, enriching, and joyful to do for this class. And Carly is the greatest TF! Take her if you can and she teaches again.
This course is interesting though some of the philosophy part may seem irrelevant at times.
Eric and Cameron are nice and great professors to know. The course itself I would recommend with reservations. Someone in the Social Studies department convinced me to take this course by telling me that on an outgoing junior survey in the past, Social Studies concentrators who took Social Studies 40 felt 50% more confident than their peers who did not. That seems high to me.  I hope that some of the subjects and readings we covered will become useful for the thesis but I doubt that for much of it. If you like methods (which you probably don't know), this is a good course. Know also that it is highly theoretical about methods; sometimes, it's unclear where the theory actually ties back into questions that matter, coming from someone who loves "theory". However, it's a bright crowd and the 30 or so people do really have the feel of a group where people are familiar with each other.
If you want your thesis writing process (the process by which you get to be a social scientist for a year) to be meaningful and self-reflective, you should take this class. Eric and Cameron are great, engaging lecturers that make the 10am MWF worth every second. Yes, there are a lot of assignments, but nothing you can't handle after you've handled the intensity of Social Studies 10.
This is a fantastic methods course. If you are a social studies concentrator you should take this class.
Although I was initially nervous about taking this class, I would highly recommend it for anyone who is thinking of using qualitative methods in their thesis. It provided a ton of theoretical and methodological knowledge which will be useful going forward. Many of the assignment were geared towards helpding formulate ideas and interest for a potential future thesis topic.
This class is somewhat boring, and has too many assignments to be a fair alternative to an ER class for the methods requirement for SS concentrators.The theory section of the class was excessive and made me question how this was more beneficial to me than an ER course
It is not only a research methods course but another great Social Studies gem!
40 is not very hard and usually covers interesting material. It's not a bad class but it's also not life-changing.
A really fascinating and comprehensive evaluation of the different methods of social sciences, and why we engage in social science research. I was pretty sure I wanted to use anthropological methods for my thesis, but this class really strengthened my grasp of both my own preferred method as well as the others. (It's good to have a holistic outlook, because then you start to understand what each field can individually contribute, and the drawbacks/strengths of each.) Personally, I think it's better to take this course as a junior, because you will have gone both through 10a and 10b, and can directly apply the material in 40 to your thesis topic. Several of my sophomore friends also said they were struggling to balance 10b with 40. But that's just my 2c!
You do come out of this course learning some interesting things, and all the readings are very important, but at times it is just confusing and all over the place. It can certainty be useful but I would carefully consider the other methods courses there are and consider perhaps taking those.
This class will teach you how to think about research and the world. Incredible, incredible experience. A must-take for any  Social Studies concentrator!
I mean, you now have to take this class.... I would say that you shouldn't expect this class to teach you how to do research, and that if you like abstract musings on things like theories of causality you will like the class a lot. A lot of what we learned, though, just did not seem practical.
I was deciding between Social Studies 40 and Gov 62, and while I think that both are probably very good classes I have to say that Social Studies 40 greatly exceeded my expectations. Beerbohm and Macdonald are incredible professors, and my TF, Carly, was amazing. The mix between theory and practice was also really interesting and surprisingly helpful as I started to prepare for my thesis.
I really would recommend this to any juniors writing a social science thesis, even if not directly in social studies.  It really has helped me think more about my future project and also to reflect on some of the social science that I've read in my other social studies courses.  The material can sometimes seem dry if you just think about the philosophy of methods in itself, but applying it to other work is what makes it interesting.
This class is a great way to get you thinking about social science methods and how you might apply them towards a thesis topic.
Way too heavy on the theory, almost no application.
Doesn't necessarily "prepare" you for the thesis. Don't deceive yourself to believe that you'll know what to do and how to do it when you're done with it. But certainly there is no class at Harvard that can prepare you better (other methods classes really have nothing to do with the level of depth and precision of this class).
Social Studies 40 is very difficult, time-consuming, and requires you to think deeply on almost every assignment.  HOWEVER, it is perhaps one of the most intellectually stimulating, thought-provoking classes I have taken so far at Harvard.  I came away from this class with a much better understanding of the different methodologies and debates in the social sciences (the subjects of which can be admittedly vague) and I've also been able to apply what I learned in SS40 across a broad range of academic and personal topics/debates.  Time will tell whether all of this will be useful to my thesis, but I suspect much of it will be.
Interesting course, but not as practical as expected.
As it stands now, Social Studies 40 will not be the best course you take in your college years, but it is definitely the best option you have for a methodology course.
This course is a rigorous introduction to the philosophy of social science. A lot of the theory is great, but the course does not do a very good job applying the theory to practical methods topics.
This course will immensely enrich your approach to learning, thinking about, and conducting research in the social sciences. Lessons learned in this course have already clarified my contributions in other social science classes and added depth to my thesis research approach. If you're a junior in social studies (or any social science, really) and thinking about taking it, DO IT. You can actually work on your thesis research proposals and get feedback from the profs (or at least you could the year I took it). And Cameron Macdonald is fantastic; if she's still teaching it, don't even give it a second thought--just take the class.
SS 40 really gets you to think about the theoretical and methodological assumption behind social-scientific research. The material is very useful, although it can get extremely dry.
The philosophy component of this class is just entirely confusing and not worth understanding. The second half however focuses on research methods and ethics and that was very useful for work in Social Studies. If you have to take this class, just be prepared to get through the philosophy parts and be really confused at first. There is also a ton of work, way too many weekly assignments and difficult papers.
Incredibly enlightening, more tough stuff in one class than I've ever learned before - but It was basically 3 classes in one, which was unmanageable and scattered. Don, Cameron and Tim are independently brilliant, but were essentially teaching 3 separate classes and it was too much. Needs focus, needs to be clearer about expectations from Brief Exercises, etc, from the beginning. I feel like I've learned a lot but it wasn't the best experience
I came in with the impression that this class would be a methods course that focused on explaining the theory behind how to do social science. It was predominantly philosophy of social science, though, and often felt very abstract. Although I feel that I am now more aware of the philosophical difficulties underlying the practice of social science, at the moment, I don't feel like I am that much better prepared to conduct actual research. However, then again, I haven't actually started thesis research, and people who have taken SS40 in the past seem to think it helped a lot, so perhaps the benefits will make themselves clear later on. Overall, SS40 felt very much like a course that I had to put up with that helps in the future but that I didn't really enjoy.
This is a good course to prepare you for thesis research.  The majority of the course is focused on the "philosophy" rather than the "methods" themselves; however, it does a really good job of getting you to think of methodological issues that might arise during the thesis writing process.  The readings are difficult to get through (not really because of length but because of complexity)
If you want to learn about the academic and philosophical landscape of argumentation -  what the different aims of research are, how you choose one method of analysis over another, how to uncover the philosophical commitments and influences that are driving someone's research (as well as articulating your own) - this class will teach you those things. That being said, it will be a grueling process along the way. It is worthwhile, but I really hope that next year the class is better organized and more clearly taught, because it can be a real struggle bus to try and understand the foundational stuff in the first few weeks. You have to take this class seriously the way you would take SS10 seriously. You have to make time for it. I would strongly encourage you to meet with the TF or professors if you're struggling, because they're incredibly helpful. Summary: this stuff is invaluable to learn, but you will pay in blood/sweat/tears/sanity.
Although this course had some solid objectives, I ended up just getting frustrated by its lack of cohesion. The course felt like three different classes: theory, more practical methodology, and a more in-depth theoretical section. The readings were really confusing and often too dense to get through. The course brought up a lot of good topics to think about before doing your own research, but the course overall was incredibly confusing and frustrating. The professors were really supportive and cared deeply about the subject matter, but I think the course needs to be reworked to add more cohesion across all of its parts.
If you are unsure about how best to analyze an issue your passionate about and especially if you're thinking about writing a thesis, this is the class for you.
Professor Macdonald is great, but she's the only thing that this course really had going for it.  Don is incredibly abstract, as is Tim - and to a fault.  I thought this class would be a nice bridge from 10 to the thesis, but it really just wasn't.  The class doesn't have a "focus" and feels scattered throughout.  Don't take this class if you can avoid it - I'm sure your advisors will push you this way (as did mine) but think twice; this is just a bad class, and it's the only experience I had in Social Studies which was anything but stellar.
It's a tough class, be ready to work before you come in because it is a difficult class conceptually and the work builds upon itself.
This course is much more work than I expected it to be. However, if you're willing to put in the time, it is extremely rewarding and certainly helped me start thinking about the ontological, epistemological, and methodological assumptions that will underlie my thesis.
TAKE THIS COURSE! It will make you a better (budding) social scientist who is prepared to think critically about issues in the social sciences on both a theoretical and methodological level. I did interviews for another class using the readings I did in this class, and my teacher was really impressed by the quality. I owe that all to Don and Cameron, who are a really compassionate teaching staff who are willing to go out of their way to help students.
Awesome class for people writing theses having to do with social theory or social science methods. Gets you to think deeply about the philosophical implications of causality, explanation, etc. If your a Soc Std concentrator, I'd advise taking this as early as possible, because the assignments in the class are often geared towards helping you form your own research topics/proposal, so it's a great class to be thinking in as you declare a focus field.
This is an interesting class, but is not very helpful in giving concrete tools for theses. Take this is you're interested in thinking more about philosophy that might be relevant to your own research, but I wish I had taken a true methods class in addition where I could have gotten hands on practice (like in anthro or sociology)
This course still needs some more refinement, not in its macro-structure but in focusing each lecture. Some of the interactive lectures are helpful, and it really does help you think about the methods of your thesis in a critical and productive way. Would recommend for juniors exclusively.
Go to lecture and meet with your section leader in order to understand the philosophy.
This class made me question if social science is even a worthwhile pursuit, but it's good.
I wish I had taken a different course to count for my social studies requirement. I really do not enjoy scholarship on scholarship. The class discussions and assignments often felt very pointless, which lowered my motivation for the class.
The readings are pretty boring and it is more helpful for juniors. That said, the work load is light so it can complement Soc stud 10 well.
This class was wonderful. If you are looking for a methods class that is not dry or redundant and will help to stretch your brain in a pleasing, invigorating manner, then this is it. If you pay attention in lecture and section and do the course readings, you will have no trouble with this course. While challenging, this class was thoroughly manageable and fun to take alongside Social Studies 10b.
If you can't stand philosophical and theoretical debates, or even methodological debates couched in very abstract/theoretical terms, consider taking a different methods course. I struggled with this throughout the course. However, the course is very useful for considering the philosophical implications of methodological choices and developing your thinking with respect to your thesis research.
This class is more intellectually engaging than Gov 62, but its also more work on a week to week basis as a result. Not very helpful for your thesis; if you take good junior tutorials you can take it and be fine for your thesis. If you dont have junior tutorial leaders who are that engaged in teaching methods, then you might want to take Gov 62 instead. It is an interesting, easy class, though, for juniors in Social Studies. Sophomores might find it a bit tougher. Jany is a GREAT TF!! The pedagogy is amazing, they require drafts and peer review of each paper, which is also nice for structure.
It's a good course that builds on concepts from social studies 10 and engages students in interesting debates about research methodology in the social scientists. helpful if you are planning to write a social studies thesis.
The course prepares Juniors and Sophomores well in the department to begin considering what methodological choices they will make in their thesis and what the ramifications of that choice will be.
Good philosophical and methodological overview to prepare you for your thesis. Beerbohm is excellent. As long as the other instructors communicate the material better, this will be a good class.
I know that most people take this class because they have to-- for Social Studies--but it was honestly a fantastic course that really changes how you think about not only social science, but also the world we live in and how we know what we know.
Basically a phenomenal philosophy class with applications to social science. If you're into theory (and why are you in Social Studies if you aren't?), absolutely take it. If not, at least shop it. Useful and rewarding to anyone interested in the central questions of social science and anyone planning on writing a social science thesis.
Good class; worth taking for Social Studies concentrators who need to fulfill their research methods requirement. I think it's worth noting that there's a bit more reading than expected for a methods course, but it's also interesting to engage with the philosophy of research methods (which the course heads facilitate pretty well).
This class is very thorough and engaging. Make sure to read everything and go to lectures as they will be very helpful for thinking about your thesis topic.
Considering this is a Social Studies concentration requirement, I would take Social Studies 40 as opposed to any other course outside of the department to fulfill the requirement as it helps prepare you for thesis research.
Social Studies 40 is a mind-expanding class, but I suspect very few people would actively seek out such a class. It feels extremely "required," but it has significantly improved my ability to evaluate the credibility of social scientific claims.
For anyone interested in writing a thesis in the social sciences, this is a great course in preparing you to think about the philosophies and methodologies that may be useful in your thesis.
SS40 is a great chance to think about the philosophical commitments of different disciplines in the Social Sciences and, for juniors especially, it's an ideal chance to think about the methodological approaches to your thesis project and how you might defend these choices and improve on planned modes of inquiry.
This is not a course that will teach you particular methods for conducting research. This is a course that will make you think about how people behave, and consequently, about what sort of research about human behavior could reasonably be performed. However, while you may *think* you only need the former to conduct research, the latter is very important when improving your thinking about how to formulate, conduct, or understand research. Highly recommended to all social science majors.
Don and Eric have done a lot to make this course better than its old reputation. They're great teachers who are genuinely excited about the material. That being said, it's a very abstract course with some ideas that are hard to grasp, but often it felt like Eric and Don were so familiar with the material that they didn't realize it may be difficult for those of us without a solid philosophy background. That being said, I learned a lot about methodology that made me feel much more prepared to think about thesis research.
Whether or not you think it will be helpful for your thesis, it's an interesting course and is worth taking on its own merits. If you get turned off by lots of theory, however, it may be worth considering other options.
You should take it if you really enjoy discussing abstract ideas, but if that is not appealing then it might be hard to get through.
It is a very theoretical class that deals with a wide range of extremely interesting and philosophically challenging methodological and epistemological issues.
If you're not into theory, this class isn't for you. A lot of the readings are just very dense theory and it can be hard to see how that's applicable to thinking through your research methodology. Lectures are not very interesting and it's super easy to start spacing out. Papers and final are not bad. TFs are great. Brief 200 words responses were required, but only six whenever you wanted throughout the semester, so they weren't bad. Section made this class better. But overall, I did not enjoy my time in this class and I would recommended checking out one of the Gov or Sociology methodologies classes instead.
This course can get very theoretical and I felt completely lost at times because of distinctions that were drawn in areas that I just could not recognize any distinctions. Despite this, the course was a helpful reminder of some of the theory discussed in Social Studies 10 and was helpful as I was finalizing my senior thesis research proposal. I came out of the course with a more nuanced understanding of challenges associated with social science research and I think my senior thesis will be stronger because of it. Guest lectures provide interesting breaks from the heavy theory and the end-of-the-year panel was a great way to relate course materials to our own research and to our classmates research.
