The more personal you can be in this class, the more you will get out of it. This is an engaged scholarship class which means that the curriculum is connected to fieldwork. Students that are passionate about the Chinatown community are more likely to appreciate the readings and complete written assignments that improves the work they do in their communities. This should not be an elective class, but treated as a job.
Nicole really likes to encourage non-Social Studies concentrators to do this, and it's great! You really get to see a lot of different perspectives. I think it was hard for the STEM concentrators to read so much, but it's actually a very manageable amount. I think the Engaged Learning aspect of this course really ties together the themes that you'll explore, no matter what PBHA program or other volunteer work you do. This class is also very refreshing if you tend to have a lot of lecture/pset classes, and it breaks up the week nicely. This class was only in it's second year in Spring 2017, so I think Nicole had certain expectations that some of the class met and some didn't. She also seemed to have favorites in the class, so if you can get on her good side early, it should be good.
This course completely alters your perception of what it means to be a Chinese American and what it means to be a service provider. This class offers a great space for introspection and Nicole is a wonderful mentor and resource. If you have a passion for public service or a desire to better understand the identity of a Chinese American, this class is definitely for you.
nicole and jiaying are incredible!!! i got so much out of this course, and learned a lot about my own heritage. they are also just the sweetest and most interesting humans, and are worth knowing.
This course is not easy. To truly get something out of it, you have to be prepared to be very involved in the community service community, and have something to bring to the seminar discussions (participation = grade!)
This class completely changed how I think about my service work and Boston Chinatown! Nicole is so friendly and knowledgeable. The work is mainly just keeping up readings and then a major project at the end. We also get cool guest speakers and field trips. This class is a gem and I wish more courses here were like it.
This is a great course! However, grading is ambiguous.
This course is one of the best I've taken at Harvard. This year, I've been seeing the words about the gate to Harvard Yard a lot that say, "Enter to grown in wisdom. Depart to better serve thy country and thy kind." I think most of my experience at Harvard has been quite selfish and this was one of the first classes that I took that really were true to the sentiment of better serving my community. I think so many of us have lost sight of that and I'm so grateful to Nicole for providing this opportunity for us to better understand our history as Chinese Americans, but also to find motivation and avenues to better serve the Boston Chinatown community.
Nicole is a GREAT resource and I think it's worth taking this course even to get to know her. This has been the most comfortable I've ever been in a classroom setting and it was invaluable to be able to have a formal space for reflection about public service work, which is so lacking on campus. It was great to have the opportunity to learn about so many other programs from the directors' points of views. There is a lot of reading involved, so be ready for that.
Take this class if you have any real interest in the Boston Chinatown community and in furthering your public service. The more you put into it, the more you will get out, and this class has really influenced my academic and career path, giving me opportunities to make connections with our community partners and develop me research skills. If you're looking for a random fun elective, you will be a deadweight for the people in the class, but if you have an open mind and are willing to put in the work, this class can be life changing.
Amazing course that takes you through the different periods of Chinese American history. Migrant narratives are often muted or erased in the historical record and this course effectively compensates for this injustice. The service component really enabled me to start noticing things about the community I was serving in Chinatown. This has been my favorite course of my four years at Harvard and it has fundamentally changed the way I view my own identity as a Chinese American. The seminar style really allows in depth examination of the readings which are all incredibly interesting. Nicole is a great professor and has a lot of in field experience.
This is a great class to pull in your extra curricular work with PBHA into your academic experience. I would highly recommend this class to friends!
An incredible course, one of my favorites I've taken at Harvard. Nicole is an amazing teacher and generates great discussion. The course is really applicable to service work in Chinatown and has enriched my service experience.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Nicole is honestly the most kind-hearted teacher I have met so far at Harvard. She is incredibly intelligent and thoughtful, and is so incredibly helpful.
Take this class!!!!!! It is an amazing opportunity to learn about the history of Chinatowns and tie it to the service work students are doing outside of class. Nicole is wonderful!!
Take this course if you are in any way involved (or would like to get involved) in PBHAs Chinatown programs! The course will give you an opportunity to reflect meaningfully and critically about your work with PBHA. By learning about the historical and social context of Bostons Chinatown community, you will bring a deeper understanding of the Chinese immigrant populations evolving needs to your service. Nicole is a fantastic person to know, and you will have so much fun along the way (field trips, guest speakers, even dim sum!). The Social Studies label may seem intimidating, but this course is totally accessible for non-Social Studies (or even non-social science) concentrators. Best class Ive taken at Harvard!
This class is really interesting and provides an exciting way to analyze the Chinese immigrant experience, especially as it relates to Chinatown-related service work.
