Take this course! Great historical approach to understanding capitalism. Ryan is a great tutor and was very patient dealing with second-semester juniors figuring out the focus of junior papers/theses.
Ryan is such a caring teacher  he goes above and beyond in talking to you about your research interests and helping you with your projects. Choose this tutorial if you like structure. If you want feedback on the quality of the work youre producing, you might have to ask, as he does not give grades for response papers/presentations/in class assignments (but his feedback for your research paper is super helpful, so Im sure that feedback would be helpful if you asked for it).
Ryan Acton is so great. I wasn't sure about taking this tutorial since it had absolutely nothing to do with my thesis interests, but I was interested in the topic so shopped the class and just loved Ryan's teaching style. Very engaging, great energy, makes class a lot of fun. Really encourages discussion and participation. The material is super relevant and leads to some good critical analysis of things that I definitely took for granted about American culture and capitalism. The class is mainly focused on historical work and primary source evidence for the paper, but there's a lot of support from Ryan and freedom on choosing the topic. Highly recommend.
This is a really cool class--the readings are all super interesting and the discussion is always very stimulating. Ryan is fantastic and very accessible. Covers a fairly large period for just one semester but doesn't feel it. Also you get to explore the evils of capitalism. Great empirical/historical work for the theoretically-inclined.
Reasonable volume of reading and writing during the semester. There's a ton of variety to the readings. And Ryan is great. Definitely worth considering for the theoretically or historically inclined.
This has been my favorite class at Harvard so far. Ryan is a great teacher and facilitates a great discussion. The course isn't too difficult and the readings are pretty interesting. I'm personally interested in the history of capitalism, and I think this class may have made me change what I want to focus on in Social Studies.
You will learn a lot in this tutorial with Ryan Acton! He is great! There aren't too many readings each week and they are super interesting too. Assignment wise, it's pretty standard for any social studies tutorial. But if you are particularly interested in Adorno or Marxism, you should take this class.
Ryan is a great professor and the readings for the class are almost all really interesting.
Amazing course! Definitely very interesting perspectives on one of the biggest questions of today: how capitalism beneficial and how is it harmful?
Lots of reading.  Some of the thinkers are hard to engage with, but overall I feel like I have improved as a person, an intellectual, and a critic of capitalism as a result of this course.
