Amazing, changes the way you think and write.
The second semester has much more interesting authors than the first. Be prepared for tutorial. Skip any lectures not given by Glyn Morgan, or whoever the head lecturer is next year (pray to god its not Adam Webb or the hat guy).
Be prepared for a lot of reading.
This course, according to the professor, "fucks with your head." So true. And it fucked with my head in such a good way.
I would only recommend this class to students who want to concentrate in social studies. If the lecture component were altered to perhaps one hour a week or abolished and the reading was substantially reduced then I would highly recommend it.
I can't say what SS10 lectures would be like led by someone other than Glyn Morgan, or what tutorial would be like led by someone other than Patti, though I'm sure everyone in the department is a brilliant teacher. My own experience in this course has me recommending Social Studies to everyone.
Be prepared to devout a substanital time about of time to the text. It will be rewarding.
Here's the thing about social studies: it usually elicits a very strong response.  Either you will love it and want to do it for your whole undergrad career or you will quickly tire of the demanding essays, the even-more demanding readings, and the nearly-unbearable demanding snobbery of your peers (just kidding on the last one).  When it comes down to it, the problem isn't that Social Studies is hard.  Hell, pre-med is hard too but a lot of people do that.  The thing about Social Studies is that you have to be prepared to think on an abstract and theoretical level without the benefit of numbers, formulas, or theorems.  You have to want to understand the basic functions of society, or what it is "to be human."  You have to take what the do in Gov, in History, in Sociology, and in Anthro, and philosophize on that.  It takes a person who's suicidal enough to think that there are definitive answers to humanity, but who's also not a pure philosopher (e.g. a pure philosopher would rather ask: do we exist?).  That's the "social studies type."Also, as you can see from this evaluation, you have to like to talk. ;)
Be prepared to read a lot.  Be prepared to have to write more intelligently than you're used to doing.
As long as you have good section leaders, it's a great experience
This class is a good "great books" intro class for social theory, but it should only be taken by those who are very interested in this field, or who are very keen on concentrating in Social Studies. People taking the course should be aware that there is little to no attention given to present day issues and practical application of the theories covered. That being said, the course does present a good deal of dense material in an interesting light.
This class will blow your mind--but it is veritas in its pure form.
This is a "thinking" course that has a long-term, tonic relevance. It is what you make of it, but if you engage the material, you will grow as a thinking person.
this is the best part of social studies. sometimes the readings seem daunting, but glynn morgan's lectures and tutorials make it all okay! :-)
Definitely meet with your TF about papers if you can. Super helpful. and Beware. Some of the readings are really depressing.
They need to have an interest in social theory. It is unfortunate that this is a requirement for Social Studies, but they just have to force themselves through it if they want to be a Social Studies concentrator.
This is a great and intellectually challenging course, but make sure that you are willing and ready to put in the time and energy to excel.
it's hard but very worthwhile and valuable. the TFs are all fantastic.
It's very rewarding.  You learn a lot and your writing improves tremendously.  The coursework is extremely difficult and there very reading and writing intensive.
Social Studies 10 is probably the most satisfying course I have ever taken because it covers such a span of material and considers pieces of that material in comparison to others, not in isolation.  You will get the most out of it by really getting to know your tutorial leaders and really making an effort to have done all of the readings before lecture.  Get to know the members of your class and talk about the Social Studies 10 material outside of class from time to time, too, because they are fascinating people and you need a whole group of motivated students (not just one talking to the tutorial leader) to keep tutorials exciting.
This is one of the most rigorous classes at Harvard. At the same time, it is one of the best and most enjoyable classes. Both the lecture and section component are fantastic. Just remember - the motivation to get through dense readings is a must. Be prepared to work hard. A background in social theory, while helpful, is not required. You will learn a LOT. While I would recommend this course to anyone, the workload may push me to recommend it to majors (though it is a requirement anyways).
it's challenging but transforms the way you think.
It is very difficult and takes a lot of dedication. However, for as much effort you put into the course you receive a lot back
changes your thinking and outlook on the world and society.
Social Studies 10b is much better than 10a - so stick with it!
it's a great experience and it's nice to have done it (past tense), but it's certainly a bear to get through, primarily because of the excessive reading and the many papers. group discussion of the texts is great, very engaging.
take it!
Take it!  Either it'll be one of the best classes you ever have, or you'll know for certain that Social Studies is not for you.
Not taking this course is something you would regret for the rest of your life.  This is the true heart of an amazing Harvard education.
Be PATIENT. The course is incredibly difficult but also incredibly rewarding.
If you are willing to work and do the readings, then you should definitely take this class.
This class is hard, so very hard. But the amount of mental stimulation and engaging conversation, both with other students and with the social theorists via the texts, makes this class more than worth the effort put in. There will inevitably be times when you want to tear out your hair (most likely at 4 in the morning when you have a paper due in a few hours), but the knowledge gained from the experience, and the satisfaction earned by finishing the course, make this a worthwhile investment. It is not only an hourly investment, but a personal investment into understanding the history and future of the social evolution of humanity.
Take it!  It'll change your life!
You need to be really interested in social theories
Improves your writing, makes you into a more educated person by laying an intellectual groundwork necessary to be taken seriously.
Great course that changes how you look at the world fundamentally. Hones your qualitative and argumentative skills like none other, and enables you to see grander patterns in life.
it's the best class you will take at harvard.  at least if you have a tutorial leader who is passionate about the material and confident in his/her ability to run a discussion.  and i did.
workload is tough.
Very hard and time-consuming, but ultimately extremely rewarding.
Social Studies 10 is not for the faint of heart, but it will definitely be on e of the best courses you ever take.
There are aspects of this class that you just have to deal with that aren't so rewarding, but these parts are outweighed by the wonderful readings and teaching of these readings, and greater understanding of social studies writing that you will get. It's a great course that will give you the necessary background for social studies.
In terms of recommending social studies to people as a concentration, while the tutorial isn't perfect, it's comparatively still quite good.
This course will introduce you to the canon of social theory.  The small, discussion-based tutorial format is fantastic.
Even if you are not interested in focusing specifically on social theory, this course is still a good investment.  It will give you thinking and writing skills that youll find useful in most of your other classes.
This course will challenge you immensely, but if you engage with the authors you read, it is extremely rewarding. This course lays a foundation for understanding the past three centuries in social and political thought.
Be prepared to get your ass kicked at times.
It's A LOT of reading so be prepared.
It is a requirement so get the most you can from it. It is meant to give all social studies concentrators the same foundation of knowledge so be sure to understand it but take what is most helpful for you for future endeavors. Also take good notes for your senior year oral exam!
This class is good for you like eating steel-cut oats with blueberries is good for you.  It's like intellectual fiber and antioxidants.  It may be hard to make yourself eat it instead of deep-fried HUDS-brunch french toast with extra syrup, but it is SO worth it.
This course is excellent. It allows you to get in depth with the 19th and 20th century social theory cannon, to dissect, debate, compare, and really understand them.
I think everyone should be familiar with the thinkers that we have discussed in this course, so I recommend it to all who are interested in this material. The course is obviously difficult, but in addition to being required, it is also important. I also recommend the course because the tutorials are a truly unique and fulfilling experience.
lots of work but worth it
be prepared to work very, very hard - the papers take a lot out of you, but are very rewarding
Lots of interesting, foundational readings that are really crucial for understanding things generally.
Difficult but worth it. Social studies is great!
A lot of work but very rewarding.
it's difficult but if you like it it is great
Don't do it.
It is a great introduction to some of the biggest minds and works in the Western canon. Be prepared to put a lot of time into engaging with difficult texts through reading and paper-writing!
If you're disappointed about the dearth of great books classes at Harvard, look no further than Social Studies 10.  It may not advertise itself as a great books course, but it knows what it wants its students to get out of it, and the readings are all written by some of the greatest thinkers of the past 250 years.
You learn so much in Social Studies 10. It's basically the crash course for socio-political theory, and it's a great start for a comprehensive look into theory.
Get ready to read! And make sure you enjoy thinking about society.  Second semester is more fun than first!
Social Studies is great and this class is great. People you should read anyway for your general knowledge.
Try and read as much as possible but really throw yourself into what you want to learn about.  Those are the texts that are going to illuminate and change your life.  Also make sure you like your tutorial and change that as soon as possible if you don't!
Be prepared for a lot of reading!
It's dry and heavy. If you like theory you'll love it. If you hate theory but need it for social studies just remember that its only 1 year and chances are you will survive.
This course is NOT for the faint of heart.  You get out of the course what you put into it -- there is the potential for great knowledge of reading/discussing/writing about theory, but it require real diligence and sincere interest!!
It's tough, but is an incredibly valuable introduction to so many important thinkers. Definitely take it if you can!
This course takes in stuttering and insecure sophomores and churns out deep-thinking, fast-talking, atheist intellectuals.
This is the one class you should do all the readings for. It changes the way you think completely.
It's a lot of work, but you learn a lot and you gain a whole new set of skills.
Social Studies 10 will change your life, if you let it. It's a huge commitment, but if you throw yourself into it, it'll pay off in spades.
Cut class.  Just read.
This course is a challenge.  But, it is the perfect course to weed out those who truly want to be Social Studies concentrators and those who don't.
There was too much reading.  Lecture often did not focus on the assigned reading of the week, but rather a more general overview of the author's theories.  Sections were not particularly helpful.  I think I could have never gone to lecture or section and still gotten the exact same grade in the course.
This is the greatest class you'll take at Harvard.
Very good course.
If you're not really into social theory, don't take it; if you are, you really should take it.
No other way to study the best thinkers of our world. What we learn there is what any enlightened citizen, i.e. any citizen, should know.
If you're interested in social studies, you obviously have no choice but to take it. If you're not, I would say skip it and go for a less intense moral and political thought course. I would say this course will occupy your time but you will enjoy it.
for social studies concentrators--GREAT
This course is deeply challenging, but a powerful grounding in social theory.
This class is the most demanding I have taken at Harvard, largely because of the vast amounts of reading for which we were made accountable. Social Studies 10 pretty much owns your life.
Very demanding but very rewarding. Probably the best course I ahve taken so far.
This course will be one of the most difficult you take at Harvard, but very worthwhile and satisfying.
Not for the faint of heart. The heavy workload can be grueling at times, and the rewards for those painstakingly written essays may seem meager. But at the end of the year, at the very least you have the satisfaction of knowing at least a little bit about quite a few theorists. However, if social theory makes you want to rip your hair out, then you should run away from this course. Immediately.
Not that MUCH work if you don't want, your experience depends on your tutorial leader.
Social Studies 10 is a lot work but will change you forever.  It will give you different frameworks to think about every other political, cultural, or social issue you come across in your academic career, whether you choose to use these frameworks or not.  Also, it gives you the invaluable experience of reading and discussing primary sources that have formed a major part of how academic thought has developed.  An extremely interesting, fast-paced, and wonderful course.  Your tutorial-mates will become your family for a year!
Wonderful! A very intensive introduction...will change your way of thinking about the world and open your mind to trends in social thought. I loved it so much, I'm continuing to read works by many of the authors we've read. More specific and theoretical than 10b but definitely just as great (if not better).
This class has taught me to think and write more clearly. Moreover, I have learned about the origins of our modern social thought.
Be a Social Studies major, or congratulations on becoming one! SS10b is awesome, with some excellent material and the same constructive style as 10a.  I'd say try to have an appreciation for the lectures - our professors are saying some very interesting things, and lectures do add a lot to the course if you pay attention at all :)  Tutorial remains the heart of the course!
If you're thinking of doing Social Studies, you have to take this class. However, don't judge it from lecture because the tutorial is really the heart of the course.
Social Studies 10 is the most rewarding class I have taken at Harvard thus far. It is fascinating and intellectually challenging. Take it!
Insist on writing response papers if You really want to understand the material and get a lot out of the course.
Social Studies is a lot of work and requires active participation, but it is very much worth the work and the effort required. An excellent course.
You will change your entire perspective on the world but oh my gosh, you're going to have to put in HOURS of work. This class is not a game. Ask for help, feedback, etc. from the FIRST DAY. Also, make sure you develop a support system with others taking the course.
This class demands that you read a great deal. While it might be near impossible to complete all of the reading, do not let this deter you from taking the class because as much as you put into the course, you will get out. Reading any of the assigned reading and discussing it in tutorial was a stimulus for a great deal of personal and intellectual growth for me this year. I would recommend this course to all students interested in humanity, political philosophy, economics, morality, regardless of concentration.
The lectures are disappointing. The section provides a great opportunity for analysis of the readings, which constitute a large portion of the fundamental works on social theory.
This class is incredible if you're in any way interested in society.  That said, if you're not a social studies concentrator, this class may not work for you, since it's a huge time commitment.
Your experience in this class really depends on your tutor. I really loved my tutors first semester in 10a and really hated my tutor this semester in 10b. It's unfortunate, but true (they also make it hard to switch tutorials). Lecture is pretty painful though - long and boring, and no internet in the classroom (at least for me).
This class is much easier than Social Studies 10a. If you got through 10a, then you will have no problem finishing this course.
It's an absolutely fantastic class with great material. Highly recommended, but do not take it for the sake of taking it. You will not enjoy it unless you are genuinely interested in the material.
This course makes you think. Take it. Social Studies or not, find a way to take it.
This class is difficult and expects a great deal from its students.  You have to read more than you've ever read, and dense reading at that.  You have to engage, form opinions, and write essays.  But this is one of those courses that changes you.  It makes you think about the world around you in a different way, and you will feel incredibly accomplished after completing it.
If you're not happy with your tutor - request to transfer to another tutorial (for one reason or another)
Social Studies is a crucial class and its reading list provides multiple keystones for imagining subjectivity and the social in contemporary life. It is very, very interesting. My reservations are twofold: (1) do not take this class unless you are interested in social theory, and (2) take the authors much more seriously than any other component of the course.
do your readings carefully, otherwise you won't be able to contribute in tutorial or get much out of it.
A ton of reading but it's worth it, you'll be exposed to a huge spectrum of thinkers and ideas.
Not the most in-depth course about social theory in Harvard. But definitely a good introduction and a great setting in which to test your ideas on the subject. Tutors rock, lecture is optional. That's about it.
Hard but worthwhile.
Do not read every word with the same intensity. Take your time at the beginning of each book, pay attention to the table of contents, to the title, and then read with a sensitivity to which aspects of each text hold your attention or confuse you. Do not dwell for too long on these, but at least note them down, in order to think more about them later.
It's a solid introduction to modern (or at least modernish) philosophy.
In some ways, this is a moot question: if you're Social Studies, you're taking this class. Thankfully, the course is structured well, with interesting readings, and great tutors.
10b is a great follow-up with 10a with more contemporary social theorists. If you liked 10a, you'll love 10b, if you didn't like 10a, you prob won't like 10b either.
Holy moly this was a marathon. Be prepared for a tough year, but a deeply rewarding one at that.
Much the same as 10a.  If you're thinking of concentrating in social studies, do it.
Be ready to read a lot if you're taking this class. Although the reading load is incredibly heavy, it's extremely worthwhile.
Intense material, but life-changing all the same. Get ready to work your ass off but to be proud of yourself when the year ends.
This was an amazing, life changing class but if you don't like theory do not take this class. It is intense and rigorous but very rewarding if you're interested in the material.
Best course in all of Harvard. Everyone should learn some social theory while here. The way in which your thinking progresses from the beginning of the year to the end is quite amazing.
Well, if you're taking it, it's probably cause you're a Social Studies concentrator. So you have to take it either way. I'll calibrate my advice accordingly.The readings are awesome. Definitely on par with 10a, and by 10b you really see how modern thought started to shape up if you look at it in the right way. Pay close attention to Nietzsche--I wish we spent more time on him. Some texts are there just for political correctness but they are few and far between. Honestly, the "politically correct" texts are never as well-reasoned as the real classics. This has unintended effect of letting you see some social theorists are better than other at being social theorists, so I guess that's a bonus.Over all it's as awesome as your tutor is awesome. Lecture is not that helpful in understanding the texts, and due to the nature of reading social theory, may even be detrimental in the long-run because it might prejudice your reading of very dense texts. I never went to a full lecture during all of 10b and did just fine, and I think I am beter served for having used those two hours on Tuesday afternoons more productively. This is not necessarily a fault of the course leaders but you can't "lecture" about theorists and trying to provide historical "context" is just boring most of the time.
Set aside time to do the reading and don't take too many other ridiculous classes!
Much more interesting readings than first semester, but that said, I'm not really sure what the hell I learned. The class isn't about applying the theories we learn; it's about analyzing and deconstructing the texts almost like you would in an English class. I guess that's cool, but things get so abstract that you have to struggle just to stay afloat.
While SS10 may be one of the more challenging classes you ever take it will undoubtedly influence your thinking for the rest of your life.
It will change the way you think, if you really engage with the texts, your fellow students and your tutor in tutorial.
Take this class! Even if you aren't positive you want to be in social studies, you won't regret it. Spend time on the reading, and the papers require a pretty substantial amount of time thinking about the topics. Take advantage of the tutors. Lectures are mostly useless, but I would take some time going to a few to get a sense of how useful they'll be, they vary from year to year. TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT
My favorite class at Harvard so far - and this coming from someone who thought they would hate social theory. THIS CLASS WILL FUNDAMENTALLY CHANGE THE WAY YOU VIEW THE WORLD for the simple reason that the social theorists studied criticize the core assumptions of Western thought. It's a good amount of reading, but you don't have to do all of it and most of it is super interesting anyway.
okay this class taught me a lot. basically we covered all of the authors i had always wanted to read but was a bit too scared too. Some of the classmates can be intimidating, but I'm sure most of your peers are at the same place you are -probably with no social theory background. But, do your readings and be prepared for your tutorial so that you make the most out of your tutorial which for a lot of people was the best thing ever! (GO SCOTT STARING!) Lectures got pretty damn tedious this year but I hear this year was a bit unusual, and you'll probably be having different professors/lecturers. Regardless, you should probably take this.
I only would recommend with reservations, because I do not know if all students are prepared to handle the amount of work and effort required to successfully meet the demands of this course.
Read wisely (selectively) and it will be doable. Meet with your tutorial leader often and he/she will give you leads to create original theses for your papers.
This course will become your most important academic and life-work.  You will question the foundations on which our society rests, you will explore your own personal theories (ones you did not realize you had!) and you will be given the space and support to critique and construct new theories of your own.  You will learn how you view the world, your role in it, and you will feel accomplished.  The work is hard but it is worth it.  Your tutor defines your experience and he or she will guide you through the process.  Because the material can be hard and it is so new to the entire class, you will form a friendship and camaraderie with your section unlike any other class.  There is no insecurity if you are all braving the overwhelming language and theory of Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, and Habermas together.
only take it if a social studies major.  you get little out of the class that you wouldn't reading the books at home.
One of the most important classes at Harvard. Take this if you want to read some of the most important texts ever written.
Dive in!  It's fantastic.
be prepared to read so much
It's all theory so if you like theory, you'll like this class.
Must understand the work load and be ready to commit to a course involving dense materials
The lectures suck, and the section can suck too if you have the wrong people in there with you
the most formative educational experience I have had at Harvard. worth every bit of the work I put into it.
This course is ideal for an overview of modern thought, and I believe that it can cater to a wide range of interests and experiences.
Be prepared to work quite a bit. Perhaps the best piece of advice you can get going into Social Studies 10 is that you need to learn how to skim readings effectively. It's not necessary to read every page thoroughly with every author in the course but you're going to need to learn how to cover a large volume of reading in not a lot of time.
This class is extremely demanding but also extremely rewarding. I highly recommend, as long as you know you'll be able to balance the reading load.
The reading is copious, and oftentimes, dense, but your critical reading and writing skills, as well as your discussion skills in section, will noticeably improve over the course of the year.  If your tutorial is like mine, you will also develop a great working relationship with your peers and tutor.  The group dynamic will only get better as the year goes on.
This is probably one of the best classes at Harvard to teach you how to think critically.  The scope is enormous, and that's one of it's biggest challenges, but as a result you'll be exposed to the biggest trends in social and political theory in Western history, and you'll learn how to read and write about it through a critical lens.  Take it - there's not much to regret.
This is the most fantastic course I have ever taken at Harvard. It's a lot of work, but will expand your mind in more ways than you could ever imagine. Do the reading and really put in the time, it will inform your work for the rest of your college career.
I learned more in this class than any other class so far at Harvard. It has given me a basis of understanding not only for theoretical endeavors in academia, but ways to base different practical ideas in a strong theoretical background. Be prepared to do a lot of work (reading and writing) but the more you put into this class, the more you will get out of it!
Tutorial makes or breaks this course. Don't expect lectures to be entertaining or helpful. The reading is dense and challenging, but thought-provoking and rewarding. Your tutor will determine whether or not you enjoy the course, and ultimately how much you learn. If you did not mess with your 10a tutor, you may consider trying to switch tutors.
Great class. Work hard, you'll get a lot out of it.
The readings in SS10b are great.  Be prepared for a similar amount of reading as you had in SS10a, but they seem much more relevant and interesting.  Lectures still bear almost no relation to tutorial or the papers, but are sometimes interesting enough to make up for this.
So you're in Social Studies.  You have to take this.  It's a lot of reading, but be sure to at least read closely the beginning parts of the reading and skim what you need to.  Close reading simply is impossible for some of the assigned readings and not really necessary.  For papers, meet with tutorial leaders to improve the quality of your ideas.
This course is interesting way to expand your horizons and question your own assumptions about our social world. It can seem frustrating at times if you're a more quantitative person because dealing with theories and arguing over theorists' arguments can seem pointless and redundant.  Ultimately, the course will strengthen your argumentation skills, reading & writing ability, knowledge of history of intellectual thought, and provoke interesting social questions. If you are interested in social sciences, this will be an interesting course that will change the way you think about your other social science courses.  Also, depending on your tutorial leader, the work load is not that bad.
SS10 really comes together in 10b. It's the most satisfying academic experience I've had at Harvard. I feel very accomplished.
It's a full-paced intro to Social Theory.
Social Studies 10 will teach you how to think critically about deep philosophical and social theories. This course will prepare you to think about and to discuss influential theorists, and it will teach you how to build upon these theories in your future work.
If you're That Guy who manages to ask a question every lecture, who makes sure that everyone knows that you've already read Nietzsche and thoroughly understand him, who nods in agreement when Tuck makes especially convoluted points -- we're all really happy for you that you happened to be raised in a privileged environment that allowed access to and absorption of dense philosophy, but tone down the id.and *DON'T SKIMP ON FOUCAULT*
A lot of these writers will be more relevant to modern problems than in 1a. Definitely worth taking ifyou liked 1a.
obviously you have to take the class if you're concentrating in social studies. but if not, it's an unnecessary stressful and difficult class, take an intro comp. politics or philosophy class instead.
A lot of reading, but very engaging and important reading. You won't regret taking this class. Jut give it the time and mindpower it deserves when you plan your sophomore year schedule.
Social Studies 10 is very demanding and requires a lot of time, but you will get out of it what you put into it. Also, your tutorial will make or break your experience with Social Studies 10 - if you don't feel as though you're getting a lot out of it, consider changing tutorials.
This class has a ton of reading, very dull lectures, but good, relaxed sections.  It's grueling and overwhelming but it can help you think a lot about social issues.  It's actually more worthwhile if you read selectively and focus more on the thought behind it.
Know your European history in order to really understand context.
Skip the lectures and spend those two hours reading the text. You will get more out of it unless it's Heidegger.
If you are seeking any sort of alternative to the Eurocentric, androcentric curriculum you will encounter throughout the majority of your studies at Harvard, you may consider pursuing another major.
This is a great class and I'm so glad I took it. You'll be glad you did too, especially when you have the right attitude: this is an opportunity to read some of the most important books around, come to your own opinions about them, and then use them as a springboard for your own theory or criticism. That's awesome. You're not always going to be able to do all the reading, but make it a priority, otherwise there's really no point to you being in the class and it's a burden for you and your classmates. It's too easy to get distracted and start treating this like any other class, but it really isn't -- it's all about conversations, the historical ones you're reading and the ones going on in tutorial, and that's a fascinating way to learn.
this course is very limited and very difficult.  if you are naturally interested in purely theoretical debates and have a background in social theory, this course might be for you.  however, if you do not have that background and you are remotely practical, this course will be very frustrating.  additionally, if you are not a straight white male, you will likely be frustrated with the attitude of the course and department.
Make sure you're in a good tutorial, as you won't get much out of the lectures. I kind of regret not making enough time for the readings. Not because I did poorly in the class, but because the books are genuinely interesting. Also, don't do what I did -- I thought this class was a higher-level version of Sociology 97. It's not. Even though it's advertised as interdisciplinary, it's really a blend of political science, economics, and philosophy. The sociology and anthropology get neglected.
This is one of the best courses available at Harvard, and it will give you a phenomenal background in social theory.
This course will change the way that you view the world, on a weekly basis. While the assignments are readings are challenging, there is nothing more academically rewarding than turning in a paper for this class.
10b makes 10a that much more relevant. This class will make you a better thinker and a stronger writer. Lecture is boring.  Your experience in this course is directly correlated with your tutorial experience.
Make sure you get a good tutor. My first semester tutor ruined the entirety of 10a, and this semester is much better, almost completely due to the encouraging attitude and kindness of the tutor in and out of section.
It is a very good class, but it is also the most intense class I have taken, especially as it picked up in intensity at the middle and end. But it was also very interesting and an experience that I am glad I had.
This is the class to get an overview of Western thought. Tutorials are great. Just be sure to get some coffee to make it through the long, rambling lectures about a reading you probably haven't done yet.
It's a very difficult and time-consuming course. But it can also be incredibly rewarding.
If you really engage with the readings, this course will change the way you think about foundational questions.
if you think you know how to read, think, and write, you'll start to learn in this course.
10b is WAY better so stick it out! Also, do the reading before you go to lecture. It makes the course enormously more interesting and educational.
A great class!  This class can help you expand the ways in which you perceive the phenomenal world.  Be warned, however, that there is a lot of theoretical reading involved.
doing the reading helps you appreciate the course and tutorial a lot more, but often you can get away without doing the reading. you'll do fine in the course (and if you're not interested in the material, that's okay), but it will make you resent the course in the end, and that's too bad.
Social Studies is a fantastic, thought-provoking course that anyone should take whether it's for your concentration or not. It will teach you to think about life.
It is conceptual difficult but very doable.  The format of the class is instrumental in how much you learn over the course of the year.
This is the best class I've taken and the most difficult. It should be a required course for every student just for its sheer relevance. These theorists have appeared time and time again in every aspect of my semester: I've argued about Beauvoir's immanence v transcendence at pregames, scribbled theories about Fanon and violence on napkins during dinner, and spent over 24 hours straight writing papers for the class. If you are willing to be completely immersed, take it. You won't regret it.
If you want a one year intensive introduction to the most important thinkers of the past 300 years, SS10 is the best possible way to get it.
Even if you're scared of social theory, this class is incredibly valuable and stimulating.  It's challenging - probably the hardest class I've taken, even compared to pre-med classes - but very rewarding.  It's true that you can technically get by in tutorial without doing every page of reading, but 1. you'll get destroyed when you try to write your papers, and 2. you're missing out on what the class has to offer.  Just do the readings, for your sake and for the sake of everyone in your tutorial.  Lectures aren't 100% necessary, but they'll really help you not ask silly questions or sound ridiculous in tutorial.
Don't make sweeping assumptions in the papers. Keep a critical perspective of your writing throughout the entire course. This is not a class for people who think they can bullshit their way through papers.
Bear with the boringness of the first few weeks of Max Weber and you'll be surprised at how 20th century thinkers are far more complex and rewarding than they initially seem to be. Truly life-changing course.
Beware of the reading load. This is a very challenging course, with a LOT of dense, difficult reading.
this class is both difficult and amazing. I have never felt like I have learned so much from a course before.
Lots of work but worth it in the end.
Don't let all the hype about Social Studies 10 scare you away. It is a fantastic course and you will learn so much. Be ready to work hard and do a ton of reading, but it will be worth it in the end.
Its a lot of work. its rewarding in the end to be able to understand the core works of Western philosophical thought, but it is definitely a lot of difficult work.
Whether you decide to pursue social studies as a concentration, this course will change the way that you view the academic and social world in which we are immersed.
It's not as bad as people make it sound like it might be
Be prepared to work hard and think a lot.
Work hard and you will reap the rewards for years.  This course made me profoundly more confident in myself as an intellectual thinker, and exposed me to writing and ideology of the highest caliber.  It is a unique course at Harvard, and one of the school's great academic treasures, in my opinion.
Going into this course, you should be prepared to devote a significant portion of your week to reading and better understanding the texts. This will most likely not come easily, and will require a lot of effort on your part. It's completely worth it, and will make you a better, more focused student.
Never will you have a better chance to read so many classic philosophical texts and attempt to understand social and political theory, with guidance from great professors and dedicated peers.
I definitely won't be writing a theory thesis, and anyone who does not at all enjoy theory won't enjoy SS10, but anyone with at least moderate interest in theory will really enjoy this class. It's also an excellent grounding in many of the major thinkers of the past 300 years.
will give you a great overview of western social thought, will push you to think about the world in new ways and will give you resources with which to analyze it.
You must work hard or you won't enjoy it or get much from it
It's really compelling subject matter; where else are you going to get a crash course in the most influential philosophers of the last three hundred years or so? This is what a liberal arts college education is really about! Don't be intimidated by what everyone else says, it is hard but it's broken down in such a way that it is really digestible. If you're worried that you won't "get" anything, don't. That's what section is for!
While this is a great class, and necessary for all social studies concentrators, your enjoyment will depend on the tutorial leader you have and your ability to enjoy big thoughts and BIG readings.
The readings and tutorials are productive and you learn a lot in them. The lectures were often disorganized, seemingly unprepared, and unhelpful.
It's pretty hard, the thinkers read easier than 10a but it's much less political theory and more social theory. In the second half of the course get used to not understanding some thinkers, period.
Such a great syllabus, though I wish I had more time to do the readings
Be prepared to work, but know that the course is incredibly worthwhile.
Lots of reading to keep up with. it's not enough to just understand the theories. you must able to analyze and apply them.
This class is fantastic.  There is a lot of reading, but it is all worth it.  The more time you are willing to consistently put into the reading each week, the better you will do.  This course has definitely given me some insight into every other social science course I have taken this year.
dense reading, dense lectures, but often engaging sections
Good luck, its a doozie... But it will change your life.
This course was the most useful and stimulating course I've taken at Harvard. Talk in tutorial. It makes all the difference.
This course is one of the best at Harvard.  It will change the way you look at literature, politics, science and technology, people --essentially, the world.  The readings are more accessible and more exciting than 10a so you should continue.  Switch into Thomas Ponniah's tutorial (unfortunately Melanie won't be here next year) if you want to get the most out of the course.  You can get by without reading much, but make time for reading and your experience will be deep and you won't forget what you learned.  These authors and the issues they discuss will resonate with you no matter what your focus field is, and open your eyes to new ways of understanding the world.  In short, this is an amazing class --take it.
10b, like 10a, is an invaluable introduction to why we think about social problems the way we do. 10b is mostly thinking about thinking and I thought it was really useful.
This is a great course for those interested in the subject matter. It's a terrible course for those who don't care about -- and don't care to try hard to learn about -- the great social theorists of the west.
It's something you have to suffer through. I hope it's worth it.
The best class I have ever taken! Definitely worth the amount of time that the course requires! The readings are awesome; you will get to read the foundational texts of social theory of the 20th century. Tutorial discussions are insightful, but only if you complete the reading and if the other students in the class share your enthusiasm for social theory. Finally, paper topics are engaging; you will get to explore difficult issues in the texts in a way that will help you understand the texts much, much better.
Take this course seriously, do the reading as best you can, work hard on papers, and actually think about what you are reading, and this course will change the way you see the world. It is incredibly challenging, if you do all of those things, but it is well worth the work.
This class is a solid introduction to social theory
Your tutorial is one of the greatest experiences of your sophomore year; you learn so much from your tutorial leader as well as from the other students in the section, who you get to know very well. Overall, it's a fabulous introduction to Social Studies as a concentration.
hard to get a great score on the essays but depends on tf
Great books. You will learn a lot if you do the readings. The lectures can be a bit boring.
I enjoyed this class so much. It completely changed the way that I think! It gives you a great background for thinking critically about social issues.
Lectures can be dry. Tutorial was great. Too much reading.
Amazing, beautiful intellectual experience. I have so much smartness in my brain now i don't know what to do with it. Maybe I'll write a thesis. Oh wait...But actually, love it, hate it, this class is one of the most rigorous social/political theory classes you can take and explores the foundational ideas in social sciences, humanities, etc. Do Social Studies and do Social studies 10. Problems though: old white Western-centric heteronormative-ness which got better this semester (10a was completely old white men). Hopefully they will continue to adjust the class to make it more friendly to minorities and women, but unfortunately the curriculum also seems to skew the concentration demographic, which is overwhelmingly white.
Take it, take it if in any way you want to get the firm grounding in social theory that everyone should get from a liberal arts education.
Social Studies 10b is the required tutorial and goes much better and is more engaging because it is a continuation of 10a and therefore you already know how the class works and what your tutor is like. The texts in the spring are, I thought, more interesting and more varied in their subject matter.
Your experience in Social Studies 10 entirely depends on your tutorial leader. Lectures are rarely amazing, and it can be difficult to attend all of them. But tutorial can completely alter the way you analyze all problems and understand theory. I know some people might be, as I was, reluctant to continue with a course that is pure theory if they are interested in more quantitative social sciences. However, the theory we cover is not meant, necessarily, to be taken as some sort of absolute truth. Instead it serves to help you think about reading and writing anything (not even limited to the social sciences). The class provides you with an entirely new set of reasoning and writing skills.
This was the most important and enjoyable academic experience of my life.  Best course with the most interesting ideas I've ever taken.
Social Studies 10 is a wonderful course, it really introduces you to all the great thinkers of modern social thought. There's no reason you shouldn't take it!
Some people hate this class, some people love it. It all comes down to whether or not you like social theory. If you do, this is the best class at Harvard to learn it. If you don't, it'll suck.
This was the best course that I have taken at Harvard so far. Sometimes you are in the middle of an experience, and you think: "this course is changing how I see and think about the world." This is one of those experiences. The texts are sequences in a way that gives you the most profound insights into the evolution of modern thought. You won't regret the 200-300 pages of reading per week.
As a social studies concentrator, 10b is unavoidable. That being said, it's probably not as bad as you're thinking it will be. The authors you read in 10b are significantly more interesting and useful than the authors you read in 10a. There are more opportunities to practically apply and engage with the theory. The workload seems to be a bit lighter. That said, many of the things you hated about 10a will stick around. For example, the lectures only get dryer and less comprehensible (Eventually even the tutors give up and stop going) and the tutorials can become frustrating if you start to get the sense that tutors are looking for a stock answer and anything else won't be acceptable. All of that being said, if you've already taken 10a, you've seen the worst of things. Might as well continue and finish strong- it's worth it to have the chance to concentrate in Social Studies!
Be prepared to work hard. Be confused. But you ask some really important questions. These sort of texts are related to really everything in our daily life, how we make choices and how society functions. !
Best class I've taken at Harvard. Makes me thing Harvard should have a core.
This class has a ton of reading but if you stick with it, the reward outweighs the trouble.
Obviously you have to take it, but it's great because the texts are great. You feel super well educated after taking it. Some of the lectures can be pretty boring, but tutorial is great.
A really wonderful class, though your experience could vary a lot depending on your TF. Still, a great intro to social theory, and as long as you can do the reading (usually 100-300 pages a week), it's a great class!
This course is nothing short of life-changing. The lectures are powerful and the breadth of ideas is incredible. I have nothing but praise. Please take this course. It is the quintessential Harvard course.
Get through the lectures and work hard in the tutorial.
Do as much of the readings as you can...you will get a lot more out of lectures and tutorials that way.  And it will make paper writing a lot less painful.
It gives a comprehensive and extensive understanding of 20th century philosophy and the main ideas that influence society up to our present day. Be ready to read a lot and think critically.
Obviously this course has a ton of reading, and quite difficult reading at that. However, it is immensely rewarding! Both 10a and 10b have definitely shaped the way I view the world. Also, 10b is great because, with a full semester already together, each tutorial really starts to grow close and true friendships are formed among students and with the tutorial leader. This promotes a much more vibrant and enjoyable discussion atmosphere than in the early stages of 10a.
This course will change the way you look at the world. While it comes at a cost (lots of difficult readings, a few long papers (8-10 pages), and oftentimes boring lectures), it is worth it. This is not an easy course, but if you put time into it, you can get a lot out of it. Despite being buried under books upon books and sometimes harsh feedback on your papers, the real experience is having the chance to discuss these complicated texts with your peers. Our discussions, both in and out of the classroom, were essential to my understanding and questioning of the readings we did. It's one of those courses that you question why you are in sometimes while you are taking it, but understand why when it is over.
Be prepared to skim. Section leader makes or breaks your experience.
lectures are not very useful or engaging. they are mostly a recap of the bio section in Wikipedia. however, the tutorial part is AMAZING. please don't get discouraged  your first semester, it DOES get better and you will DEFINITELY advance, even if you think you're starting behind everyone else
This is a strong second part of the foundation you get for social studies, it completes the grand platform of worldviews almost perfectly, giving you a great launching pad to start questioning life on your own in a more sophisticated manner.
Aside from the fact that it's a requirement for Social Studies, the class offers a very good crash course in a lot of interesting and important authors in very approachable way
Be prepared to be pushed in tutorial, work really hard on the papers, and read more than you've ever read in one semester.
Find a structural way to get information from each text you read. If your section leader doesn't provide an outline for each author, create on yourself because you'll need the information for your oral exams senior year! Ask for help when you need it, too :).
Go to office hours! Profs Tuck and Frazer are super interesting to talk to
It's good and the readings can be sometimes abstract and difficult, but the ideas are great.
This course, while Euro-centric, provides a fundamental overview of social theory of the last 300 years. What makes or breaks this course is your tutorial; if you have a good tutor and good peers in tutorial, this class can be a joy. If not, then it is can be a difficult year.
It's hard but not as hard as it's made out to be. Take it if you're interested in social theory and want to be a Social Studies concentrator. And do the reading--you'll actually learn a lot.
The lectures can be incredibly boring, but the tutorial is really wonderful.
10b continues to exhibit all the strengths of 10a: operating a phenomenal teaching model, asking deep questions, strengthening your analytical skills to a ridiculous degree, and being generally an awesome, awesome class. It's great, and I'm quite honestly very sad it's over. When i look back at my experience at Harvard many years from now, I'm confident that Social Studies 10 (and the lessons it teaches) will be one of the biggest things I remember. The one thing I'll say is that 10b has authors that I think for some people are a little less compelling than some of the ones in 10a. Weber is awesome, as are Foucault and Nietzsche, but the class has a much more sociological focus than the first semester, which emphasized politics and more pure philosophy a bit more. That's not so much for everyone (I liked 10a more, just for the authors), but suffice it to say that 10b is still a wonderful class.
You come out of it stronger with bragging rights at having passed perhaps the most difficult class in all of Harvard, but all jokes aside, you also come out of Social Studies well-versed in all of the classics that every Western-educated, liberal-educated student should know.
It's a wonderful class. Be prepared to have several hundred pages of reading per week, but it is a class worth taking.
it will suck. but it's an investment so that you can be a part of a great department.
You should definitely take this class. There are many things you will hear about the course that may make it seem unappealing, like that the readings are long, the material is difficult, and the lectures are sometimes painful. On all accounts, I agree. However, this course was my favorite course of my sophomore year. It gave me the incredible opportunity to work closely with an amazing teacher and I really loved the intimate tutorial sessions we had. You will learn SO much from this course and it will prepare you to approach all of your courses more thoughtfully. I am so pleased I took this course and am excited to continue in the Social Studies department.
Worth it. I came into Social Studies 10 with ZERO experience with philosophy/social theory, expecting to just endure it. But I have learned so much from the reading, and ESPECIALLY section. Section will honestly make or break your experience.
your tutorial leader matters a lot
Social Studies 10b is SO much more interesting than 10a--the philosophers we read are far more interesting and thought provoking. If you have a good tutorial, you will love being a social studies concentrator!
I've done the sales pitch on Social Studies 10 a thousand times, and I can't recommend this class (and this concentration) highly enough.  Both Professors Tuck and Frazer are fantastic lecturers and their knowledge of the readings is immense.  The tutorial component of the course remains the best academic experience that I have ever had in my lifetime.  This class will change your way of thinking, your way of articulating yourself, and your way of responding to things in the world - TAKE IT.
I would recommend this course (and by extension Social Studies as a concentration) to everyone who is interested in looking at the social sciences through the lens of political theory.  If you aren't interested in theory, I would encourage you to look into the Government department.
Very interesting, tutors and the people in your tutorial will determine whether the class is excellent or merely good
Do the readingsor at least, know the main points if you cannot read everything!
Social Studies 10 is a great course if you really read the texts and make an effort, if you already fall behind in the beginning you might ruin the experience and start resenting it.
This is a difficult course, but if you're in Social Studies, you're going to take it. You're not going to love lecture, but tutorials were great.
This class changed my life. Social Studies 10 changed the way I think, the way I write, and the way I argue. Social Studies 10 is often frustrating, but there is no class I'm happier I took. I am SO glad that I stayed in 10 and didn't switch to Gov 97. Take it. Embrace it. Work hard at it. It'll change you.
The philosophy behind this course is to throw students in the deep endyou quickly learn how to tread water, but the experience is time-consuming. Learn to block out time to do the readings, and to use outside sources to help you understand the texts. Don't feel guilty about reading Wikipedia, the Stanford Encyclopedia, or Sparknotes to get what these philosophers are trying to say. Academics have been parsing their work for eons, and still don't understand. The course instructors want you to engage with their ideas, not with their obscure writing styles. That said, make sure you do the readings as thoroughly you can. There is the temptation to skip, but these philosophers are so fascinating and so valuable that you'd really be missing out.
I mean if you're Social Studies, you gotta do it. It's not so bad, some readings are interesting, others are quite difficult.
SS10 is a high barrier to entry to the Social Studies concentration. If you nut up for one year and take the course, you'll really learn a lot and thank yourself for it. However, if you're looking to coast by SS10, you will regret ever even enrolling in it. Devote yourself to the texts and discussions, and you'll be beyond happy.
It's hard but you have to take it
10b is a great course. The readings you do are much more applicable to life and are really interesting and engaging. They'll make you think hard about the world around you. Tutorial is amazing, as long as you have a good tutor--mine was Libby, who is spectacular but unfortunately she won't be around next year. Be ready to do a lot of reading but also to get a lot out of it!
Hopefully it is more organized in the future. The knowledge that you learn and the thinkers that you read are quite valuable.
Social Studies 10 actually changed my life. Every single week in this course, I was exposed to a new way to make sense of the world I live in and interact with. Social Studies 10 led me to question the reasons I make the choices I make, want the things I want, and treat people the way I do. It helped me to understand why other people and groups do not share my perspectives on the world. I believe this class achieves the promise of a liberal arts education as articulated to me when I applied to Harvard, and I could not recommend it more strongly for the sheer brilliance of its intellectual content.
There is a huge amount of reading for this course but it is well worth it! You learn amazing theory all with great teachers and get close to your future concentration advisor. It can be dry at times, but in the end you will be happy you took the course
Social Studies 10 can go one of two ways. It can be one of the most boring classes you'll take or it can be one of the best classes you'll ever take. For it to be the latter, you have to be ready to not just read, but to appreciate, the 200+ pages of reading you'll be doing every week. The lectures can be tiring if you don't pay attention, but if you do, you'll realize the genius of Tuck & Frazer. Tutorial can be long, but if you do you readings beforehand & are ready to participate, it will be the best two hours of your week. Social Studies 10 is what you make of it. For me, it is, by far, the most intellectually challenging and stimulating course I've taken at Harvard.
Readings are hard and will take longer than you think.
10b is more challenging than 10a, but with a good tutorial leader it's all worth it.
The course is super rigorous. While it is possible to avoid many of the readings and use Sparknotes to superficially understand these theorists, if you want to get the most out of this course, make sure that your course load is balanced so that you can spend ample time with these textsthey are not the sort of books that can just be skimmed and require deep engagement. With that said, it is also an amazingly exciting class, offering you a framework for analyzing a breadth of economic, sociological, anthropological, political, and historical questions.
This class changed my life. It really helped me find myself academically and I am a different person because of this class. It absolutely changed the way that I think and I couldn't imagine being a member of society without having taken this class.
Only for those that like to read and want to devote countless hours to discussion concerning theory and such.
SS10 B is a class you definitely in retrospect will be happy you took. During it there may be times that you feel like you're not getting much out of it, but the more you put in the more you get out.
It is hard. There is no question. There is a lot of reading, and the reading is complicated. Writing the papers is difficult. But this class changes the way you see the world, and you will definitely come out of it a MUCH better thinker and writer. Do the readings and you will get more out of the class. Lecture is pretty brutal and seemed useless to me, when I went (not often).
SS10b is a good overview of major thinkers. However, sometimes it can feel an overwhelming litany, with a new book/author thrown at you each week. It is a concentration requirement and I feel that this knowledge will be helpful in the long run, but it can be frustrating working through heavy reading loads each week without clear summaries or connections to main themes.
This class is very difficult. But it's even more rewarding. If you can commit to 10 hours of reading a week, you'll get more out of this class than all the classes you took freshman year combined.
Good class. Doing all the readings is doing the class wrong. Lectures also drag on a bit (two hours straight of just listening is tough), but tutorial is a highlight of the course, particularly with a good tutorial leader.
This course is a lot of reading and difficult subject matter but is probably the most rewarding class offered. The foundation of social theory it provides is unparalleled and the teaching staff is extraordinary.
The readings that you will do in this class will be extremely thought provoking and even change the way you think about many academic subjects. They will challenge your preconceptions to say the least and definitely expand your worldview.
You've already taken 10a, same deal, but very different because the topics you learned in 10a are evolved by the thinkers in 10b.
It's compulsory and rightly so!
The course varies hugely between tutors. So choose wisely.
These books are extremely dense, and the workload is big so it becomes very difficult to keep up with all the readings during the school semester. I would recommend that you start in the summer. You will get out of this course as much as you put into it, but some of these books have changed my life.
Similar to 10a and basically what you would expect; all comes down to your section leader.  Lectures basically optional.
I really loved this class, which surprised me. I found I enjoyed theory a lot more than I thought I would, and find myself applying the material when I think about current events or when I speak with my peers about them. The tutorial component is also wonderful and unique -- a great opportunity to get to know people in your house and develop a relationship with a faculty member.
It is a hard class, and your experience really depends on your section leader, but it can be one of the most transformative courses you take at Harvard College. Definitely better than the first half.
10b is a lot more of the same, but the authors get a bit more interesting than they were in 10a. I left this semester with a few favorite works, which I didn't in the first semester.
You, as a citizen of this earth, have a duty to take this class.
the more pessimistic half but also the more engaging and relevant one! If you got through 10a, you will get through 10b
Take this class if you want to learn how to write and think critically.
Social studies is hard. Harder than gov, harder than ec, harder than history. It might kick your butt, but you get to learn about a lot of important theories that are really fun to play around with. This course is all about the tutor you getif you don't like your tutor, switch. All in all, I highly recommend it to students who know they like gov or social studies.
This class will blow your mind.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. The readings are incredible. The two teachers and the tutors know the readings in and out, and they guide the students to a better understanding of many great thinkers in recent Western history, and to those thinkers, of the world. This class is fun, academically rewarding, and a challenge to our conceptions of ourselves and our places in the world - everything a Harvard class should be. Take this class.
Lectures can get very boring, which is sad considering how interesting the reading material is this semester. If you have a strong tutorial leader and students who are interested in the material in your tutorial, it makes up for the boring lectures. Compared with 10a, 10b deals with issues that are more relevant to today's world, with topics like feminism, racism, and power. The readings are mostly all significantly easier to understand and more enjoyable to read as well (with some exceptions of course). Be aware that the readings are also considerably darker and pessimistic, since we are now in the tunnel at the end of the light. After taking a year of Social Studies, I have a new way of looking at the world. The theory we learned in this class has been applicable to and beneficial to understanding all of the other social science classes (and even some non-social science classes) I have taken. This class is everything a good Harvard class should be, and you will feel smarter after finishing it. Lots of work results in a strong reward.
Wonderful succession to Social Studies 10. More practical and less theoretically sound sometimes, but still absolutely worth knowing.
Social Studies 10 will challenge you to reconsider your perspective on topics such as free will, citizenship, identity, morality, and the role of religion. The tutorial sections are really a fantastic opportunity to have in depth and challenging conversations with invested peers and to grow as a analytical reader and writer through your tutor's guidance.
10B is much the same as 10A, but the material becomes far more interesting and slightly more readable as well. Great class for gaining new ideas and outlooks on life.
Social Studies 10 is a necessary evil. If you like philosophy however, this is a class you will enjoy a lot.
It's pretty grueling to go through another semester of a social studies tutorial, and there are many times when I hated it for putting me through an entire year of constant reading. Every moment of my life seemed to be engulfed by reading these social theorists. But ultimately I learned a lot about social theory, and this semester definitely provided a greater look into modern society and writers than the last, which is less abstract. Tutorials are some of the most engaging and intellectually stimulating discussions you'll have at Harvard.
This course is challenging, and there's definitely a lot of reading, but it is definitely worth it and 100% doable.  Don't be afraid of the reputation of this course, because you may end up walking away from one of the best classes at Harvard.
The course is challenging, the readings are dense and must be very carefully read, but you really come out of this course having read some of the most important, if not the most important, social science theorists ever.
Great course! Still a lot of reading compared to 10a, but it feels much more do-able this time around. The canon of literature is fantastic, and I personally enjoyed reading these authors with last semester's thinkers in mind.
lots of work, and your experience depends a lot on the section you're in, but still highly rewarding and interesting.
Lots of reading.
Stick with social studies 10a to get to social studies 10b. It's phenomenally worth it.
This is the greatest course that you will take at Harvard.  Even if you don't end up concentrating in Social Studies the in depth treatment of essential continental philosophical texts and the tutorial system are worth putting in the work.
This course will make you a sharper thinker and a better arguer, within the context of a vibrant intellectual community and under the guidance of a tutorial who knows, cares about, and stretches you. Take it.
You have to take this class if you're a Social Studies concentrator, so you should approach it enthusiastically. It's all about getting a good tutor. If you do, then you'll probably have a very enjoyable experience. If not, then this class is pretty painful.
Willingness to read is a prerequisite
This is a class that will blow your mind, more so than SS10a did. Definitely do the readings. In the future, you will not regret having the knowledge you gain in this class.
The second half of the Social Studies sophomore tutorial is wonderful. There are so many themes that will make you rethink the world around you, and the way that you interact with others. It's really a must-have, in my opinion, for every students who claims to be educated at Harvard. It is a lot of work, but the applications to real life are huge!
Incredible course! Only go to lecture if you don't understand the readings. Although the lecturers will most likely be different, I found that Tuck made the first half of class a wikipedia overview of each author. Great for contextualization, but they could seriously just link the wiki instead of wasting an hour of my time in uncomfortable chairs. You will gain the most out of tutorials, but make sure to DO THE READINGS and it will be a phenomenal course. Also its hella euro-centric so if ur looking for some POC or female or queer voices, they are scarce. Despite the lack of critical reflection on the role of race and gender in the social sciences, I loved it! SAVE YOUR NOTES FOR THE ORAL EXAM its important to take good notes.
Its a great intro class
I think most people enjoy Social Studies 10b much more than 10a. For one thing, you know how to employ effective reading/thinking strategies to the works and so you'll get more out of this class and not cry too much (like with Hegel). Also, you've learned how to write for Social Studies so your grades will probably be better. Also, the readings and discussions are a bit less esoteric and applicable to the modern day. Also, you know your tutorial so tutorial is more fun. Social Studies 10, as a whole, has made me a better writer and a better thinker; I have honestly, because of this class, gained confidence in my intelligence and abilities that has affected me positively in many areas of my life.
I thoroughly enjoyed this course and think that non-social studies concentrators interested in the readings should also consider taking this class. This class introduces you to many authors that you will definitely run into in other classes (if you're humanities) and it will be useful to know the basics. That being said, the experience definitely depends on the section leader you are assigned to. If I didn't have such a great section leader, I probably would not be able to engage in the material as well and enjoy the course as much as I did.
Be ready.  Its a lot.  But its worth it.
This class is a rewarding intellectual journey. It is impossible not to have your entire worldview completely flipped on its head every week in this class. Enjoy it while you can. Social Studies 10 is the best course I've taken at Harvard and I am truthful when I say that I am sad to see it go. Take this course. Social Studies is the best of all the social science and humanities worlds.
Take good notes, and connect the dots between the readings.
TAKE SOCIAL STUDIES 10B.If you're reading this, you probably already took 10A. 10A was good. 10B is much, much better. Way more fun readings.
For the sake of being an educated person, you need a background in this area of Western theory. It certainly isn't the only important area, but it helps when understanding our culture and social criticism.
I know everyone says this, but this class REALLY changed my life. Really. Back when I was a wee freshman, reading Q evaluations about SS10b and pondering "how could this course be as transformative and life-changing as everyone says it is?", I never would have anticipated having grown or learned this much. Now, thousands of pages and more deep discussions than I can count later, I really do feel like I see the world in an entirely new way. I've learned to question the status quo and challenge the way things are; every day, in my real life interactions, I am reminded of the readings and discussions we had in tutorial. After all, as civilized humans, I think it's tremendously important to learn about how society shapes us and how we can find meaning from that. But I don't want to give away too much :) For now, I'll just end with this: Social Studies 10b is exactly the kind of course I dreamed of taking upon coming to Harvard, and I'm so, SO glad I did.
Social Studies 10 is not an easy class, to be sure. But the best things in life don't come easy! This course is challenging in all of the right ways, but I do think that without the support from my excellent tutorial, it would have been very overwhelming!
You will not come out of this class thinking the same way you went in.
This class can change your life and how you think about society and how the individual relates to the communal. You have to be willing to engage and spend some time thinking about the texts in order for this to be a truly rewarding experience. Professor Mehta is an incredible, clear, thorough lecturer!
If you've taken 10a, you already know what the deal is. Tutorial is incredibly helpful if your tutor is decent. Lecture is a good time to catch up on homework or take care of things for your extra-curriculars.
If you're interested in social theory and can get excited about 300 pages of weekly reading, this class is for you. Otherwise, you may be miserable.
Social Studies 10 (a&b) is the best class that I have taken at Harvard.  I did not think I was going to like social theory as much as I actually did.  I found it incredibly relevant to almost every other field I am interested in.  In addition, the course is a great opportunity to get to know other people in your concentration because of the small (8-person) tutorial component of the course.  Social Studies 10 has made me look at the world in a different way, and I am very thankful for the experience.  It is also one of the most difficult courses at Harvard, and there is a lot of reading, but it is 100% worth it.
There is too much of a disparity in quality and workload amongst sections. I do not think this class prepares its students well as the paucity of written assignments allows for little development.
Tough class, but definitely feels more relevant to non-theory based Social Studies concentrators, it gives you a feel for the type of work you might be doing yourself.
If you are Social studies, you have to take it. If you wanna greatly improve your reading and writing skills, I recommend you take it. If you just wanna test ground, you probably should run. This is a really tough class but I have learned so much over the course of the year!!
Professor Mehta's lectures are outlined, and he does a good job of selecting the right material to discuss. However, his lectures can be long-winded and sleep-inducing. The tutorial itself is the best aspect of the course.
Social Studies 10, for all that you hear about it, is actually a great way to gain a foundation in social theory and methodology and can be an invaluable way to think about your thesis, but also more generally about how to approach social change. This is important for anyone looking to be agent of change in the world. Even though some of the authors can seem a bit too purely academic, it is still a good perspective to have.
Professor Mehta made this course more accessible, though it is still extremely dependent on your tutor. Without the right person running your tutorial, this class could be brutal.
It's great, take it
It will feel more manageable than 10a, since you'll be used to being assigned way more readings than you can possibly do in a week, and to the style of writing that makes sense for Social Studies. Do as much of the readings in January as you can; that will make the start of the semester easier.
This is a must-take, and it's a pity that you have to be in the concentration to be able to take this course, since this stuff is something that you should read anyway. Tutorial quality apparently differs all across the board, but regardless of who you end up with, ss10 is a lifechanging experience by virtue of the reading list and profound discussions on the texts.
Like Soc Stud 10a, the lectures are dry and boring, but the tutorial is great. That said, this is a necessary class for social studies concentrators. It is really interesting to read these texts and analyze them because it makes you question your own beliefs. That said, one year of heavy moral philosophy is a lot - I still haven't decided if I'm going to stay in social studies.
This is an intense and rewarding experience
I liked 10b more than 10a. I had never heard of many of the thinkers on the SS10b syllabus before (e.g. Fanon, Horkheimer/Adorno, Habermas), so it was nice to get some exposure. Prof. Mehta's lectures very helpfully explained each thinker's basic ideas and major points of discussion. But still be prepared to have a pretty large reading load with some thinkers who write in a frustratingly dense and abstruse style.
you will struggle, you will learn
Pratap is an awesome lecturer in comparison to Tuck.  But he's not coming back from what I heard, so just want to warn folks that Social Studies 10b is probably not going to be like how it is this semester, when it comes down to lectures.
The SS10b tutorial is even better than 10a.
10b is obviously challenging - perhaps more so than 10a, in terms of the paper assignments.  While the course calls for a lot more building on, synthesizing and comparing past authors, I found that 10b was actually a lot more rewarding than 10a.  The works you read are much more relevant to modern times, and while some are still difficult I think they are significantly more accessible and thought-provoking than some of the early 10a readings.  As a student I felt like I had a much better grasp on the philosophy, and actually enjoyed myself immensely.
TAKE THIS COURSE --- IF you are willing to sacrifice a decent amount of your life to it. Because if you're not, it's not worth it. The weeks when I did enough of the reading, paid enough attention in lecture, contributed enough in section, I felt so intellectually rewarded. The weeks when I didn't... Well, it was literally an unbelievable waste of time, energy, and a total drain of self-confidence. Be ready to bounce off the walls with intellectual excitement while at the same time wanting to hide in the corner for not understanding half of what is going on. Social Studies is a practice in checking your pride.
Take the class - it is worth it for the major, and it changed how I think about a lot of things. I got really lucky with my tutorial leader, and that makes all the difference. It's a lot of reading, but ultimately, you are only responsible for the main concepts, and you can go back and get specifics for your essays.
Class is difficult reading wise IF you attempt to read everything. Much more enjoyable if you skim the readings and fully participate in discussion.
10b was a much better class than 10a. Professor Mehta was a great lecturer, the readings are more interesting and engaging, and by the end you really start to feel well read in social theory.
Social Studies 10b was a great experience for me. I really enjoyed reading, discussing, and writing about the material (much more than I enjoyed 10a). My tutorial this semester was only four students, so it felt like we got a lot of individual attention and the tutorial setting felt like a very safe environment.
It's hard but really worth it
If you're unsure about whether to continue with 10b after taking 10a - do it. The second semester is better, the people we read are more engaging, and the movement into the modern era makes the texts feel more relevant. If you're not happy with your section, change it, because this is going to be the defining feature of how much you enjoy the class. While my feelings about the thinkers was highly variable in the fall, I was consistently satisfied with what I was reading week after week this semester.
Social Studies 10 is a pretty hard course, both in terms of workload and grading. However, coming out of it, I feel like it has really changed the way my mind is structured. It has been a truly transformative experience, especially in the second semester (the thinkers in 10b are generally more interesting than those in 10a), and one that I would recommend to everyone. I feel very lucky that Professor Mehta taught the course this year, as his lectures are wonderfully clear, and seem less constrained by personal opinions than those of Tuck. Though I'm not entirely sure what 10b would look and feel like in the future without Professor Mehta, I think it would still be very worthwhile. Your tutor and tutorial are also very important, and hugely affect how much you get out of the course. If you don't like your tutor in 10a, it's worth switching in 10b
It is a lot of reading. Your experience pretty much depends on who your tutorial leader is.
take it with Eric
There is too much reading for this class. Discussion and debate is interesting towards the end of the course but towards the beginning a lack of practical application prevents it from gaining any traction on a more emotionally driven level.
Some of the writers for 10b are incomprehensible. Tutorial is what makes the course.
If you're taking this class, you've already taken 10a and probably have a decent idea of what it will entail. Obviously the class is very much determined by your tutorial, and I can't comment on lectures since you will have a different lecturer. However, the 10b authors are incredibly rewarding, and it's cool to see the progress to present-day social theory (aka actually reading authors who are alive).
This class is fantastic, if professor Mehta stays on it will only get better. If you completed 10a please take this course and then decide whether or not you want to stay on in social studies.
Social Studies 10 will be instrumental in your career choices and your life. Reading political, social and economic theory allows you to understand society today, its problems and how to approach them. When you hit the sophomore slump and wonder why you're doing what you're doing or what you want to do in the future, this might be the only thing that makes sense. But do the reading.
10b is SO much better than 10a--the readings are more interesting/relevant, and with a semester of difficult social theory already under my belt, I was much more prepared to give/get more from this class. Also, lecture this semester was much better than those given by Tuck...they often actually clarified the readings rather than confusing me more. This is the best and most rewarding course I've taken at Harvard, which has mostly to do with the fact that my tutor, Libby, was amazing, so I loved my tutorial.
Like 10a, but with way more interesting readings. Your tutorial leader matters a lot. The people in your tutorial matter even more. Don't be that kid who finds a perverse joy in throwing around the names of a million theorists who aren't on the syllabus. Also don't be that kid who never contributes to the discussion except to make extraordinarily banal connections to current events/campus issues/your personal life.
It definitely is not a course to be taken as an elective but I think everyone at Harvard College should have the experience of Social Studies 10. It is an amazing way of getting to know many thinkers and get introduced to Social Theory. I particularly liked Social Studies 10b because of the many more modern thinkers we have read.
This course is excellent. I think it is much better than SS10a for two reasons: 1) you will be more familiar with reading such dense theory, and 2) the material is more interesting. Although the course is challenging, the material is so fascinating and thought-provoking that it is totally worth the investment.
I loved the material of this course AND I loved the way it was taught ('supplementary' lecture and small house tutorials). It is just as much reading as you have heard about SS10, but it really makes you think about how we've arrived at the institutions and practices we have in society and what thinking goes behind that. Your experience of the course can vary based on your tutorial leader.
if you question this world and why you are in it, and why you perceive it as you do, then take this class. you won't think about thinking the same again
Worth doing most of the reading - tutorial is extremely rewarding if you are familiar with course material.
The more work you put in, the more you will gain. But you have to be really disciplined.
I had so much to say about this class, but the fact is, if you want to do social studies you are going to take it anyway. It was a fine class. Sometimes the readings were great and I was happy I did them and felt inspired. On the whole, this class wasn't too inspiring. A lot depends on the section leader you get. Mine didn't really make the material interesting, and seemed to punish you if you didn't talk. I don't know who does the readings and who doesn't basically if you like to hear yourself speak you will BS whether or not you read. Other people had genuine comments, but those felt rare. This class was WHITE and PRETENTIOUS.
There's no shame in using online resources to help you understand the text. Also no shame in asking teachers to slow down and explain basics before delving into the text itself. I found both of these strategies essential to surviving social studies.
This is a tough course but very rewarding if you enjoy it and keep your head up.
Social Studies 10 will help you read lots of key texts, develop writing and presenting skills, and potentially form a community of intelligent and likeminded students. Lectures sometimes are redundant, read quickly off of pre-written scripts, or are intellectually counterproductive. The syllabus may wreak havoc on some of the most influential ideas of the past three generations by assigning you PDFs with every other paragraph crossed out, by trying to merge multiple vastly different writers in a single week, by flinging many different dense and philosophical texts at you in a single week, by presenting authors with almost no reference to the theoretical conversations the authors were engaging in, and so on. However, with a dedicated, knowledgeable, and rigorous tutor, as I was lucky to have, you can still have a highly enriching and educational experience.
Social Studies 10b is a challenging course, but builds off the material in 10a quite well. I thought the works were more diverse, interesting, and generally were more popular with the students in the class. It's worth sticking around after 10a just for the 10b lectures and reading.
This is a good follow up from 10a and I loved learning about the things we looked into in 10a from a completely different perspective. The biggest fallback of this class is the amount of readings we are required to do. There are times when we have to read up to 3 readings and not only does this make it difficult to finish but this also makes the students have to compromise the quality of reading that they do.
The class has given me useful tools for evaluating all types of contemporary social issues. The readings were generally very interesting, although there were a few weeks where the readings were so long and dense that I felt I didn't really understand them well.
This is a wonderful course!  This course offers a solid foundation in contemporary theory that builds on the work of theorists previously studied in Social Studies 10 and allows for meaningful engagement with the texts.
This course is definitely worth taking for people interested in learning about the foundational thoughts of Western thinkers which many of us are exposed to today. Yet, it is limited in its scope because the author selection is largely limited to a Western, male context.
This semester is a lot better than 10a. It gets much more modernly relevant, and the concepts are just far more interesting. Other than that, its the same class as 10a.
The course is difficult but very rewarding. Grading varies significantly by tutors, but teaching is uniformly quite good. You'll learn and grow a lot.
Invaluable academic experience. Social Studies 10 is not a class where you can get all of the information by browsing Wikipedia.
The course is a lot of reading, but it really does change the way you think.
this is a hard course but better than first semester because I think you get used to the course load.
A great deal of reading, but you can supplement this with reading guides/read the reading guides online especially before particularly dense theorists since it can help you understand what they are trying to say quicker. Also find the books at the library if money is a constraint.
A very insightful course and a great sequel to 10A. It is certainly still challenging and requires plenty of reading outside of lecture and tutorial to stay on top of things, but you get out of it what you put into it. Lecture is usually helpful. You get some amazing lecturers and some "meh" ones. Your experience also appears to be very related to which section leader you get. My tutorial leader, Bonnie, was amazing, friendly, and very engaging.
Try to do as much of the reading as you can, but I learned the most from just being engaged in section.
Take 10a to take 10b. Tutorial is more rewarding and more fun. The material builds on itself incredibly interestingly, and it's way more varied than in 10a.
Working on the papers ahead of time is the best way to do well in this class. Intently doing the readings or paying attention in lecture, frankly, is unnecessary--though, of course, you will be better served if you do so.
Nicolas and this class changed my life. I say that in all honesty and with as much conviction as can come across in this small blurb of text. Take it. Read the materials and it'll be an unbelievable experience.
I really did love Social Studies as a course, and highly recommend if you're interested in social/political theory or intellectual history. The course isn't well-structured. Kloppenberg is a boring lecturer, and only lectures once every few weeks. Other than that, the individual tutors lecture, which can be very hit-or-miss, depending on the individual. Section itself is incredible, so enjoy it. The curriculum isn't as strong as first semester.
If you're thinking about taking Social Studies 10b, you probably won't have much of a choice because you've declared Social Studies. Combined with 10a, this class has truly changed my life. It'll be one of those classes that you'll remember fifty years down the road - and, sitting in the classroom, you'll recognize that straight away. This is challenging, but you'll be privy to a type of knowledge rarely found among even those with a college education.
Better syllabus than first semester; seems more relevant to our everyday lives. Make sure you understand key thinkers from first semester though (Marx, Hegel, Kant). They just don't go away. Adam is great, definitely one of the best tutors.
It's a lot of work but worth it. You'll relish the challenge.
I personally preferred 10a to 10b, but this is still a good course with engaging materials. The lectures aren't entirely necessary, depending on your tutorial leader, but are usually still interesting to go to.
Great for surveying thinkers, not as much depth as a phil course. Prof Kloppenberg is one of the most kind professors I know. Most students in your seminar are committed to the readings, which makes discussions interesting.
Get ready to read for the entire semester, but also look forward to learning more in a course than you ever have.
Social Studies 10b is actually the best course I have taken at this school. This course has given me a completely new way of understanding society. Definitely take this if you're willing to put the work in!
TAKE THIS CLASS. Soc10 is not as draining as people indicate. You read a lot but can skimp on certain weeks. Really interesting debates about human behavior/structures. This class is intended for people who are 1) creative thinkers and 2) interested in big questions about modern life.
The course isn't great at contextualizing texts in a global context instead of just a European context. It's obviously very white. There's some clear friction among the teaching team driven by the fact that white European thought is not, shockingly, the center of the universe. There are attempts being made to add writers of color to the syllabys, but the problems with the course won't be addressed by just adding people of color to the syllabus. It needs to rethink the way it thinks bout history and theory and challenges students' and faculty members' assumptions. Just reading people of color through the same old lens is not revolutionary. The lens itself needs changing.This class was difficult to be in as a student of color during a very difficult year politically. It is really one of the few places at Harvard to get such a sweeping look at social theory, especially because it's a two-semester course, but it's a shame that its so Western-centric (not just in the material, but also in the class/department culture).
10b is SO SO SO much better than 10a. I really enjoyed the readings and our discussions in tutorial. I never loved the lectures but the tutorial made it worth it.
Make sure you actually read the readings. This class might have some long readings but they make you attempt to understand the world around you and your role in it. It leads to questioning your relation with individuals and society.
This class is a mixed bag. There seems to be structural incoherence in the class staff--between the professor and many tutors. It remains to be seen if they resolve these issues. The thinkers we read are all important in the western tradition, and the class does force you to seriously grapple with a lot of the most momentous ideas of humanity since the eighteenth century.
Be prepared to work but Italy's all worth it
great authors, lectures really need to be improved. it should not just be someone reading an essay. The professor from Providence on Beauvoir was excellent! Benhabib was great. Professor Kloppenberg is great. Many of the others were not helpful.
You won't like all the authors, but you need to read most of them and every Harvard student should.
Be sure to meet with your tutorial leader about your essays before you write them in order to help you understand what kind of structure / style they are looking for.
If you have a strong desire to pursue Social Studies, obviously you have to take this course. If you have doubts or just don't really know, I would think hard about delving into such a time-consuming course-- readings are dense and long, lecture is often not as interesting as it should be. However, section is fantastic. It really is a great course if you have a strong interest.
Dry lecture, and WAYYYY too much content being covered. Makes it easy to be disinterested.
For people who have gone through 10a and enjoyed it, 10b is a worthwhile investment.
Better than 10a
You have to take if you want to concentrate in Social Studies, so you might as well enjoy it.
This class shaped my academic interests hugely and felt like it opened my consciousness in ways that have been super important. Take it for YOURSELF, investing as much as you possibly can in what interests and challenges you and not being ashamed to take more of a backseat on what does not interest or challenge you. It's impossible to do it all, but having these authors and the waves of thought they come from in your back pocket is a huge gift.
The tutorial is really what makes this class worth it! You learn a lot.
To quote Dean Rakesh - its a transformative experience. My best choice at Harvard has been taking this course because you learn and grow so much. It' tough, but stick with it and the payoff is tremendous.
This course is challenging, but definitely not too much so - if you do the readings, go to lecture, and put in some effort, it is definitely manageable. Readings were more diverse and interesting than 10A, and lectures were given by a different person nearly each week, which added a nice variety. All in all a good course and enjoyable - some of the readings were very interesting and worthwhile!
would only recommend as a requirement. This class requires too much reading to effectively engage with the material. The lectures are not engaging and are difficult to understand.
This course enables you to critically think about key sociological thinkers through the ages, not just by assigning readings from them, but also by giving you the tools necessary to engage with the texts in writing and discussion.  It will get you much better at debate and writing.  In addition, you get a very solid understanding of the material and theory behind modern social theory.
This course is definitely difficult and challenging... and if it is not, then you aren't doing it right. The more you put in, the more you get out. So challenge yourself. It's worth it, I promise.
If you ever want to challenge any assumption you might have, you are welcome to Social Studies.
A lot of reading, but very interesting if you are interested in social theory and social/political issues. It's impossible to do all of the readingjust know that, and try to use creative reading strategies to get the main points.
Social Studies 10b is so much better than the fall segment! The readings, in my opinion, become more engaging yet having the background of 10a is helpful. There's wayyyyyyyyyyyy too much readings. Honestly, other theory classes don't usually require its students to read the WHOLE book and instead assign the most important segments that encapsulate the main idea of the work. I think cutting down on the readings would make the class more manageable and thus more engaging. Rather than struggling to just get the reading done, students could focus on trying to really understand and apply the concepts.
Lectures vary in quality depending on which types of theory you're most interested in. Overall I enjoyed the class more than I thought I would but was not a huge fan of my tutorial, which is a bummer because it makes a huge difference and you have no control over which one you're in.
This class has pushed me to think more than any other class I've taken at Harvard. If you do the readings and make an effort to understand social theory, you will find this class incredibly rewarding.
Take Social Studies 10a, even when it feels like a thankless struggle, for the privilege of taking 10b.
This class is a good introduction to social theory, and if you have any interest in social studies you should take it. It is a lot of reading, but not totally unmanageable, and the tutorial aspect is very interesting and rewarding
Social Studies 10 doesn't just teach you what the great social theorists said; the course helps you learn to think like the greats. The class is definitely a big commitment but is completely worthwhile. Tutorial is amazing and the tutors really help develop your reading and writing skills.
Social Studies 10b is better than 10a because of the reading material and I think the lecture component also improves a lot.
The books we read provided me with an excellent toolkit for understanding many fields of social sciences and improved my perspective on life overall. The workload is very intense. Be ready.
10B encapsulates the usurpation of 10A: an ideological ripping down of the enlightenment project we erected at the beginning of the year. The material in 10B tends to be more relevant to our contemporary situations and I honestly do not think that it is possible to come away from this course NOT being substantively influenced by the thinkers and ideas covered in this survey course. Would highly recommend making time to do all the readings and buying your own copies of the books because you will most definitely come back to them over the course of your academic career and your life.
Great course over all. Not easy. Lecture's can be very dense. I pretty much got nothing out of lecture. Entirely dependent on your TF. I really liked Don so I enjoyed the course.
This is a rewarding class, although the reading requirements are extremely high and the quality of section discussion depends substantially on the leaders and other participants.
you have to be prepared to work hard and think a lot. it really tests your ability to stay sane :)
My brain is fundamentally different after 10b. 10b isn't just more enjoyable than 10a because it is more modern, it's more enjoyable  because the fingers really take praxis into account and don't hesitate to question everything to its core. The discussions I had in tutorial with David were fantastic and sometimes terrifying, and I always hashed out the same questions with friends later that night or even that's weekend because they stuck with me so much. Some advice: talk out the theory outside of class in addition to in class, don't be afraid to deeply explore one concept or theory instead of evenly spreading yourself out (if you get a bit out of everyone and go deeply into 2-3 thinkers you can learn an immense amount and you can always go back to the others later). David is a fabulous tutor by all accounts, but the creative assignments were so much more interesting and made me think much more deeply than another essay would have...so pick this up for the course on the whole!!
If you liked 10a, you will love 10b!
This class is tough but is the foundation of your Social Studies career. The faculty all care a lot about the students and trying to make sure you get the most out of the course. You'll probably end up not doing all the readings, but you realize that's okay.
I think I want to start by acknowledging how much I've learned from Social Studies 10. As painful as the process sometimes was, Social Studies 10 has done what it promised to do, which was to radically change the way I think about the world. It informs the way I understand everything now and demands of me to constantly question the norms which I take for granted, particularly that of the language I use in thinking about the world.That being said, I want to question why this process has had to be so necessarily painful in the eyes of some of the department leaders. The first day of Social Studies 10a, we were informed, excessively so, that Social Studies 10 would be difficult. It would be exceedingly difficult, and if we weren't ready for it, we could leave the room right then. We should be prepared to spend multiple sleepless nights banging our head against the wall trying to understand Marx. I really believe this concentration has so much to give in terms of knowledge--but I want to ask who the concentration is choosing to equip with this knowledge when it presents Social Studies in such a way to students. Who are we driving away when we tell students these things? As a first-gen, low-income student, I have difficulty as it is trying to convince myself that I'm good enough for this school. I worried for so long that I wasn't smart enough and that I wasn't good enough for this concentration. I can accept that Social Studies is a difficult concentration--what I have a harder time swallowing is the lack of institutional follow-up for students who might feel this way. I would love to see the culture of Social Studies 10 change. Social Studies offers so much to its students, and I would hate to see students being driven away because they feel they're not good enough.
This is an amazing class! I can't imagine anyone would regret taking it. Working through the readings, while challenging and long, is VERY worth it especially with lecture and section to help make sense of everything.
My outlook both as a scholar and a human has changed immensely. This is the Harvard experience you were looking forward to having.
Social Studies 10 is a life-changing experience. I think everybody interested in the social sciences - unless you have any strong disciplinary leanings - should take social studies 10 at least for the texts. Sometimes lectures are not mind-blowingly illuminating, but tutorial makes up for it. People ask questions out of genuine interest and passion. There are so many interesting ways to think about and even apply the theory.
Incredibly challenging but rewarding course
Definitely better than 10a, but I still didn't find it enjoyable. I'm not really into theory, so I found the topics covered this semester a lot more interesting. Be prepared to read a ton.
Social Studies 10b, like its twin 10a, is a class not to be taken lightly. Anyone can take it, but to really get something out of the class, I have found that dedication to the material and the workload is truly necessary. I have friends who hated the 10 series, but they were also the ones who wrote their papers the night before and bluffed all the readings for tutorial. However, taking the class with a better mindset is very fruitful; you will learn tons about history and the important thinkers throughout time, but you will also be pushed to develop your own critical mind to a level you probably didn't think possible. I am very grateful for the intellectual development enabled by this class.
This class is difficult and a lot of reading but also extremely rewarding. I never thought I'd be remotely interested in theory before Social Studies 10, but the discussions in tutorialwere really interesting throughout the year, and the books in the latter half of 10b changed my perspective on the world in a lot of ways. Also, Professor Kloppenberg seems really intimidating first semester, but by the second you'll realize he's actually a dear.
i.	Much better than Social Studies 10a because there were differently people giving lectures and the knowledge base is so much broader, so everything makes more sense in context. Also, your tutorial has solidified its community dynamic, so everything makes much more sense. I love the idea of a year-long course instead of just a semester one, because you get a chance to get to know the class and people very well. Rebecca is an amazing tutor, but a very tough grader relative to the other tutors. Regardless, youll learn so much in section!
If you like reading and discussing interesting and difficult ideas, its great.
It is a very intense course that moves very rapidly, so much so that it is hard to follow and retain information from week to week.
The experience of having a 5 person tutorial is truly incredible, and while lectures may be marathons, the tutorials make the experience worth it.
There is no way around it if you are a social studies concentrator. This course is more interesting than 10a however not as helpful.
This course is tough but it really will change the way you think and make you a better student. My writing, reading, and critical thinking skills have improved tremendously and I feel far more equipped to engage in serious debates about a variety of issues. Each theorists provided a new and interesting way of thinking about virtually any topic in social theory and the texts were surprisingly applicable when you thought of them as lenses to analyze modern social phenomenon.
Take Social Studies 10! It's a lot of work but it's worth it to have grappled with the big questions before you start doing your own work.
It's like Social Studies 10a, only with better readings. Take it, enjoy it. If you're interested in continental philosophy or critical theory, this is one of the best experiences for you Harvard has to offer.
Who your tutorial leader is means everything.
I loved this course.
This class is absolutely wonderful. Probably the best thing I've taken at Harvard. It's a lot of work, but at the end you're rewarded with a general knowledge of theory that would have otherwise taken me years to cultivate.
THIS IS THE BEST COURSE I HAVE EVER TAKEN (NOT ONLY AT HARVARD) BUT DURING THE ENTIRETY OF MY LIFE!!!!!!
