It was an interesting class, but the class discussions were a little unstructured.
The subject matter and professor combine to present an exciting exploration of the country's most interesting and pressing legal matters.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard.  Terry is spectacular and he teaches the course very very well.
I've already recommended it to several current juniors, saying that its a great overview of theory issues that allows for a discussion-based treatment of current issues.
This is hands-down the best course I have taken at Harvard. The reading is reasonable, the topics are engaging, and you might actually want to write the papers. Take it. (If you can get in!)
Terry Aladjem is great, understanding, easy to work with, intelligent, and all around everything you could ask for.  The material is interesting, though a touch dispersed.
I think this course is good for anyone even mildly interested in the law.  Its philosophical background is excellent.
It's a great class.
This class is excellent. I learned a lot and Terry is phenomenal.
Excellent course. If you're interested in the law, take this tutorial.
This is the kind of phenomenal course that I came to Harvard to take. Terry is an incredible teacher and mentor. I cannot recommend this course highly enough.
You need to take this class! Terry is the nicest, friendliest, smartest instructor and will really get you to wrestle with some important ideas. Get ready to have your entire idea of law change...in a good way!!
This class makes you look differently at a lot of the theory you read in social studies 10. As such, even if you aren't interested in the law or criminal justice per se, this course is still worth checking out because you revisit or encounter a lot of the ideas you see in 10 as they operate in a more modern American context, which I think is really interesting and valuable. Of course, if you like law or criminal justice, this would be a great course to take.
Definitely worth taking! The midterm paper is longer than you would expect, so plan ahead.
This is a wonderful tutorial, and prompts you to think critically and creatively about the law and its presence in society in myriad ways. The midterm essay is a bit stressful, but the course overall is an incredibly relaxing and friendly learning environment. Definitely take it if the topic, or any application of it, is intriguing to you!
a good way to get interested in law
This is the first class that made me feel justified in taking a year of Social Studies 10. It's really, really good.
If you have any interest in law, take this class.  period.
Discussion is too unstructured.
This class allows for careful contemplation of the meaning and purpose of American law, and stimulates great discussion. Dr. Aladjem is very knowledgeable and highly approachable. However, you must be motivated to do the work and to engage in order to actually take away lasting knowledge.
This is a great tutorial. Terry is an excellent tutorial leader, and discussion is always interesting. The readings are excellent and really give you a number of critical lenses that allow you to see the world in a new way.
Take this class if you want to go to prison.  That's the only reason to take it.
Terry is awesome. Take this course!
terry is enthusiastic and goes above and beyond what would be expected of him in terms of making himself available to meet with students. he also schedules a prison visit, which I sadly wasn't able to attend because of a final on that day, but I hear it's great. one thing to know about this tutorial in comparison to others is that there is an extra midterm paper in addition to the final paper that doesn't feed into it, so be prepared for that. other than that, though, terry does a great job encouraging you to explore the topics that interest you and the ones that will be relevant to your thesis later, so that's great. students do steer the discussion a lot, though, so sometimes we get on tangents during section.
Terry was a wonderful and kind tutor who was always willing to help us understand the course materials better and craft good essays. However, because he is so nice and easygoing, Terry sometimes did not direct the class as much, and our discussions often veered off-topic. While this provided for interesting connections between the law and contemporary issues, it was frustrating for the times when I actually wanted to discuss the readings. Prison visit at the end of the semester was also very eye-opening. Great ending to the class!
Terry is absolutely wonderful, and the course material was interesting. A lot of a tutorial depends on the make up of the group, and we got lucky.
If you have even a slight interest in law then take it. You won't regret it
This is a great tutorial from every perspective. Terry is incredibly patient, facilitates good discussion and the content - if it seems interesting to you - won't disappoint if your enrol. I think the biggest thing to consider is that the course is based primarily on theory so if you find theory difficult to engage with it might be better to consider a course that is more qualitative/quantitative. Overall, the discussions in the class are extremely important for anyone and even if you don't want to write a thesis on criminal justice related subjects, Terry's approach and the lessons from this class will undoubtedly by useful.
This class was really fun. The readings were fantastic, Terry was enthusiastic about the material and that was good.
Terry is so accessible outside the class. You should really go talk to him and flesh out paper ideas. He is extremely helpful and easy to talk to. He goes out of his way to ensure you feel comfortable and supported.
I think I was very fortunate to be a part of this class, I learned a lot about law that not only fascinate but tremendously surprise me. I recommend it to everyone interested in law and theory!
Terry is amazing -- truly one of the best human beings I've met on campus, and he knows his stuff and can really lead sections. Great feedback, great readings, and the stuff you do outside seminar really contributes to the experience. The discussions weren't always the most intellectually stimulating, but I think that's more that our particular year had a lot of pre-law types that weren't that interested in readings or thinking too much.
If you think law is interesting (and not just law school), this will be a really cool way to look at the subject matter, but I found that discussion often devolved into sharing personal anecdotes that were only vaguely related to the readings.  For instance, after reading sections from several great books on free speech, we spent much of the class talking about the controversy over when Tyga came to harvard.  If this appeals to you as a way to make the topic seem relevant then you may love this course, but we did not usually get into particularly interesting discussions of the readings.  But, the trip to the Norfolk prison was truly an incredible experience, which I can't imagine any other course offers
Terry is great! The syllabus is well-planned, and the readings are diverse and engaging. You should know, depending on the composition of students in the tutorial, the conversations will be more or less theoretical over the course of the semester (even when significant current or historical readings are included in the week's planned discussion).
This tutorial had nothing to do with my thesis, but I'm still very glad that I took it. The discussions are fantastic and the material forces you to carefully consider your thoughts and beliefs about the law and its implications. There are two papers to write, but the weekly reading is pretty light for a junior tutorial.
Liked the class a lot, and think it is definitely worth it to get to know Terry. As with most tutorials, it is what you make of it. I think we made a lot of it, but probably could have done a better job grounding our conversations in the really great texts Terry gave us. But the conversations were certainly the most important part.
This class will challenge you to combine both theory and practice..
Be prepared for lots of heavy readings about highly charged topics, (free speech, death penalty, punishment), and digging deep and taking a stance on certain topics that you probably don't know what you think about. Such a healthy exercise. The prison visit was such a meaningful experience and thought provoking.
If you are very interested in law and/or you were super comfortable with the work load in SS10, take this class; despite the ridiculous amount of work, including a 15-20 page midterm essay and a 20+ page final paper, it is worth it. If you are not/cannot do either of the above things, avoid.
This class really lets you play with ideas in a way few others do.
This is the best class you will ever take at Harvard if, like me, you are interested in law school and you love discussing both theoretical and practical implications of American legal systems.  Tutorial is brilliant each week, and Terry's genuine enthusiasm (and inspiring writing) on the subject matter really was contagious in the best of ways.  Take it and don't look back - it really is the best class I've taken after 24 courses at Harvard, and it reaffirmed both my decision to be in Social Studies and my decision to come to Harvard in the first place.
This tutorial is wonderful and one of the best class experiences I've had at Harvard. The material is interesting, whether you're interested in the law specifically or also governance and the theory vs the reality of American rights. The class is not a theory class, as I feared, but rather there are some theory readings (e.g. Locke) that help for background. The conversations become pretty practical and based in reality, and they get heated. Our tutorial got into debating with each other and getting into the topics, which was a great learning experience and created strong bonds with the class. Terry also takes us to visit a prison, which is a provocative and educational experience. Terry is a wonderful teacher and really cares about his students. If you get the lottery for this tutorial, take it.
Very interesting, discussion-based course. Terry's a great tutorial leader.
This is a really great class, and Terry is a wonderful professor. He is one of the most accessible, down to earth professor's I've ever had. This class is worth taking just to work with him. Also, the prison trip you get to go on is so interesting. If you are looking for a course that teaches you methodology in writing a paper, this class will not deliver. You're basically on your own to write a paper in the last two weeks of the class, so prepare for that if you're going to enroll.
This class covers interesting material, but I did not find it very helpful in preparing to write a thesis. I wish we had spent some more time talking about methodology. I also thought some of the readings were not super relevant. That said, Terry was always friendly, supportive, and accessible, which made the class more enjoyable.
This was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. The course materials were by no means boring or difficult, and the topics we discussed were often controversial and sensitive which made the conversations in class that much more interesting and engaging. I would recommend this class to anyone who has any interest with the American legal system, and how it affects society. Also, the prison visit was singlehandedly the greatest academic experience of my life, and I encourage everyone who takes this class to go!
Terry really cares about his students and the course covers a lot of interesting material. It's not always the most organized so you have some room to decide for yourself what you want out of the course.
This is a good class. Readings feel a bit outdated at times and the syllabus is pretty tough to follow, but overall Terry is a great tutorial leader who really lets discussion develop organically. Workload is very manageable.
This is a great course because of all of the opportunities there are inside and outside of weekly meetings. Terry is such a great professor- he really cares about getting to know his students and their interests and loves meeting outside of class. We have dinners where we share our project proposals with our classmates to get advice. There is also a movie screening and a trip to a prison (which was the highlight of my semester). Terry really cares about seeing what we learn about in class in practice. The only downside to this class is the lack of support around the process of writing the final research paper. There are no clear written assignments leading up to the paper (like a proposal, outline, or bibliography), so you are basically on your own. Still, it was such a great junior tutorial with interesting reading materials and experiences, and Im so glad I was a part of it!
A really wonderful tutorial. Terry is excellent at leading discussion, is very kind, and clearly cares a lot about his students. The tutorial is suitable for students interested in a wide-variety of thesis topics, from the highly theoretical to the empirical, and so-long is there's some discernible overlap between the course and your research interests, Terry will likely be more than happy to allow you to write about them for your final paper. It's also less intense than some of the other tutorials, in that the reading load is manageable and there's no weekly response paper, though it does have a midterm essay, which many do not. The prison field trip is also an amazing experience, and very much worthwhile.
Sometimes the discussion seems very redundant. Terry is super nice and the readings are very interesting, but I wasn't enthralled by class discussion.
Take this tutorial!! Terry is a brilliant facilitator of discussion and you will learn a ton from the readings. The class harkens back to Social Studies 10 at times, which makes for nice continuity, but also brings in different disciplines (legal scholarship, history). The reading isn't overwhelming in terms of volume, but it is conceptually challenging. Terry is also incredibly helpful with advising essays. Don't be scared off by the midterm essay, it actually helps to organize your thoughts for the final much earlier on. A great class for anybody remotely interested in law or punishment.
I have never been more inspired to engage in the law, search for a career in American politics and law or think critically about the world around us. Professor Aladjem is truly a gem of the Social Studies Department. Take this course if you want you life to be changed (seriously, seriously, seriously).
