This a chance to take a tutorial with a highly organized, caring and motivated professor. However, the subject matter of the course and the methodology is quite specific and you should be sure that you want to employ sociological method, etc. before deciding to take this course.
Fascinating material, often neglected, and really applicable to a Social Studies junior.  Frankly, Prof. Viterna is so nice, she alone merits taking the course!
I would tell them that this is great course if you know what you want to do with what you learn, but that in and of itself it needs a little work. However, if you're passionate about the subject, it does add things to the conversation that are helpful to know.
There is a lot of work.  A full load of reading plus response papers per week, but it is all well worth it!
If there is a small class size, absolutely take it. Professor Jones flourishes in a small classroom environment.
The content of the course is extremely interesting in and of itself and has a broader applicability that JUST social movements. The portion of the course dedicated to methodology is invaluable (the readings and the project memos) because they allow you to feel more prepared for writing your final paper and later your thesis, regardless of the topic. Also, they force you to be accountable and stay on track so when the time comes to write your paper you already have a solid amount of work done and don't have to write it all in a matter of days. Most of the readings are  very engaging and I found the documentaries especially engrossing. The instructor, Alison, is a sweetheart, very personable and approachable, available, invested in helping you improve and excel and provides extremely detailed feedback on assignment. Only 2 of us took this tutorial my semester, so we were definitely able to receive more personalized attention, but I feel like the same level of investment would hold for larger groups.
This is a great class! The professor is very nice and the reading is both interesting and helpful in thinking about the structure of a thesis. Additionally, the final project sets you up extremely well for the summer and for writing a thesis.
The course material is extremely interesting and Professor Viterna is amazing. This tutorial will help you prepare to write a thesis and you will learn plenty along the way
Be ready to read and write and research and have a lot of fun.
Professor Viterna was a pleasure to work with, and the content was exciting.
If you have some inkling that you'll want to write your thesis about social movements, take this course. Prof. Viterna is supportive, encouraging, and doesn't hesitate to challenge her students to refine their thesis proposals. She really cares about helping her students develop their research and writing skills, which is incredibly useful in a concentration like Social Studies.
Jocelyn is a great TF. She made everything very comfortable
This was a great tutorial experience in that Alison was very invested in her students and their projects and trying to make them work. You should have some interest, however, in social mobilization and in the theory surrounding it.
This course is not a stand-out. Be prepared for difficult grading, many assignments, long and drawn-out discussions, and a generally unexciting experience. You can cover similar topics in other classes and seminars.
This is by far the worst class that I have taken at Harvard. It was unstructured, un-enganging, repetitive, and a dead end. Professor Jones does not know how to teach. The readings are very dry and abstract. There is no inspiration in the course even the topic is centered around changing our world. It's all "theory," very rarely grounded in reality. There is an incredible amount of reading for each week, and you barely cover a fraction of it.
This class is great. Alison is such a good tutor. She is so helpful; she's always willing to meet and talk through any questions you may have, and everything she has to say is very worthwhile. She really pushes you in the right direction with your research project; I definitely could not have done it without her! And in terms of tutorial itself, it's pretty engaging. The case studies and theories we talk about are all really interesting. Reading each week is kind of a lot but definitely manageable, and it's interesting. The project memos are great in keeping you on track and developing your research project. And the experience of doing the research project itself is great.
This is a great class, especially if you are interested in social movements and/or if you want to learn about qualitative methods. You will have many opportunities to refine your project idea over the course of the semester, which is nice. And Alison is extremely committed and constructive in her feedback and guidance on the final paper, so take advantage of this as it is invaluable.
Great tutorial choice if you're interested in activism, social change, social movements, etc. Even if you're not, Alison will work with you to make sure you learn a lot about methodology and get to pursue a topic you're interested in!
