If you have any interest in education and economics, I really can't recommend this class highly enough. This was a great introduction to independent research and Mandy is absolutely phenomenal as a teacher and person. She generated a great enthusiasm for the readings. Like most tutorials, there is a lot of independent work, so you will get out of it entirely what you put in!
The class assumes some background in statistics. Although I'm sure Mandy would have been fine with students receiving extra help during office hours. It's rough at the beginning for anyone with little knowledge of econometrics. But you feel pretty awesome by the end. You won't know a lot of the finer details but you'll get better at thinking about the studies at a high level. I think this class will improve your research skills - especially quantitative methodology.
This course was a fantastic introduction to quantitative methods in the social sciences, economics, and issues in education. The readings are very interesting and the professor is absolutely wonderful. It is helpful to have some prior exposure to statistics and experience with stata or a similar program, but Stat 104 (or an equivalent) is more than sufficient background to do well in this course.
Great class if you're considering a quantitative component to your thesis.
Great seminar if you're interested in the policy side of education! Mandy gives great feedback on the assignments, and you learn a lot about empirical research methods along the way.
Great tutorial. Very different from the other one I took because we read actual research as opposed to more theoretical or historical books like I did in the Fall. Makes you try a quantitative research paper - which was both interesting and informative. Would highly recommend Mandy's class. She's also an extremely fair grader, which is a pleasant find in the social studies department.
Not the most interesting or engaging tutorial you could take. Mandy didn't seem particularly interested in teaching undergrads and was not particularly helpful in terms of comments or flexibility.
