This class definitely lived up to its expectations. It is an excellent tutorial!
Anya is an amazing mentor and teacher. Take this class!
This class is fantastic. Anya is a great professor, the readings are super interesting, and the assignments are fair. The 25 page research paper sounds daunting but is approachable because of how well structured the class is. All the papers before the research paper help build into the final paper, and make writing 25 pages pretty easy.
This course was excellent in every dimension, but not less challenging than other (potentially less rewarding) courses. Anya is super helpful, gives every student the most personal attention and is fully aware of each one's strengths and weaknesses as a student. The topic is very interesting and conveys the complexity of inequality and (the lack of) social mobility in America. In addition, Anya's very flexible in terms of the potential topics for the research, which was also wonderful.
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard and I will be shocked if I find anything better. There are two things that make this class fantastic. The first is that the class readings and discussions are incredibly interesting and thought-provoking. I never got bored in class ever and was even sometimes disappointed when class was over. The other incredible part of this class is Anya. She cares so much about her students and does an incredible job preparing you to write a 25 page research paper, ultimately working towards your senior thesis. I know that I am going to be way ahead of the curve in terms of writing a thesis because I had Anya as my junior tutorial leader. She is absolutely awesome and if you're at all interested in this course you should make it your first choice. It is a lot of work for sure, but so worth it.
This tutorial is amazing! I have never enjoyed a class so much and walked out after every discussion always thinking. I found myself constantly telling people about what I was learning, and Anya does a great job of getting you acquainted to the research and paper-writing process.
Anya's tutorial is fantastic.  If you have any interest in working in the US or on economic inequality and social mobility for your thesis please take this class.
Definitely take the course, Anya directs the discussion very well, but ultimately we ran it the way we wanted to. Provides tons of help on your paper, very kind about it.
Anya is a great section leader and the readings each week were really interesting. It did get a little frustrating though, because we were just reading about poverty each week and it seemed like no solutions weren't coming out of our discussions. What do we have to say that public policy makers, etc haven't considered?
This is a great class to get an in-depth look at income inequality and stagnating social mobility in America and think of solutions. The readings, the teaching and the class discussion all combine to provide a rich perspective on these issues. In addition, you can look in-depth at issues you truly care about through the final research paper.
Easily one of my favorite courses I've taken at Harvard. While the wonderful readings and reliably lively class discussions are enough to make this course stand out, Anya makes this class as incredible as it is. Her thoughtful advice and guidance make the daunting junior research paper that much more enjoyable, manageable, and rewarding. Take this course!
This class was fantastic. Anya emphasized how excited she was to be teaching this course and her excitement came through every week as we discussed the readings. The readings were a great overview of the sociological greats on America. Anya really cares about the intellectual development of her students and that comes through every week. She'll meet with you once every couple of weeks. She's also very funny and warm and will invite the class to her house mid-semester. I absolutely recommend this course. Be prepared to think critically.
This was a great class, I would recommend it to anyone.  I think the course title tends to attract people who think of themselves as social justice/activist types but that is not my case at all and I loved it.  This course actually made me really glad to be in social studies because the level of discussion was very high, and everyone was really willing to engage with the material on an intellectual and personal level, everything that I hoped for out of the concentration.  Discussions could seem a little repetitive, but there was always some new angle to get at.
Take it take it take it! Fantastic class -- discussions were great, readings were interesting and manageable, and the final paper goes by much easier with the amount of step-by-step guidance you get. Loved this class.
Anya is a fantastic teacher. Asks thoughtful and engaging questions about the subject matter. If you want something grittier and real world rather than theoretical and abstract, go for this one.
Anya's wonderful, and the course material is particularly fascinating. Anya also pushes you hard to turn in outstanding work, which can be frustrating throughout the course but most certainly works out in the end. I highly recommend this class!
This tutorial is great for anyone interested in inequality and various explanations for it. Anya makes herself available to students and meets with them frequently. Writing the final paper is easy once the time comes, though it sounds daunting at first, because there is so much preparation beforehand.
The class covered a very broad range of topics when discussing inequality and social mobility in society. As quite a few of the other social studies junior tutorials are more focused, it was excellent to have such a wide variety of topics to study and discuss, as well as to write on.
Get started on your paper early. Prospectuses and things like that will sneak up on you. Also get started reaching out to interviewees early. Overall, amazing class and really glad I took it.
Anya is a fantastic discussion leader.  If you like dealing with difficult questions of justice and equality than this is the course for you.  Research options were incredibly open to students and Anya was very enthusiastic for my project (and I can only imagine she was the same for everyone).  My only complaint was that I felt unprepared to actually write the research paper, but that will hopefully be addressed next year.  Anya clearly cares about her students, and she'll even have you over for dinner.  What a beautiful human being!
I am convinced that taking Anya's tutorial is almost certainly the best way for you to prepare for what you will be dealing with in the Thesis process.
This class is incredible. If you have the opportunity, take it. Anya is probably the best professor I've had at Harvard, and she really makes an effort to make the class feel like a community. The discussions are so interesting, and you really dive deep into real-world problems. Taking this class validated my decision to do Social Studies. I can't say enough good things about it!
Great tutorial. Anya is extremely knowledgeable about the topic and about social studies in general, and this is a great tutorial to take to learn about writing a junior paper (and later your thesis).
This course is fun and fascinating. You'll love it. Guaranteed.
This tutorial is INCREDIBLE! The readings are fantastic, which makes for great, through-provoking discussion each week. I always came home ready to talk with my roommates about what had happened in tutorial that day and carry on the discussion. Beyond that, Anya is an AMAZING tutorial leader. I can't stress that enough. She is so helpful for writing your junior paper, and feels so invested in your work. I can't recommend this enough!
This was the best class. You learn from each other and really have great discussions. Anya is incredible, and you'll get a ton of guidance on your paper on top of the week to week discussions.
This class was awesome.   I feel that I learned to really appreciate the synthesis of the social sciences in a way I haven't been able to before.
Find a good topic and work really really hard to say something meaningful about it!
Take this course to closely examine a topic of immense popular interest with passionate peers and a professor who builds a learning family through combining warm kindness with intellectual rigor.
This is a great course and you should leap at the opportunity to take it. The discussion was always at a good level and thought-provoking. The course left me with a good base of knowledge about inequality and social mobility. In particular, with a range of views in the class, it was fantastic to be forced to challenge assumptions. It is also a rare opportunity to be taught by Anya and one that shouldn't be missed (lottery Gods allowing).
Best harvard seminar on society? Likely.
Anya is fantastic, and I had wonderful classmates with whom to share the experience! I loved each meeting of the class, even on weeks when I didn't feel that I had been able to fully commit to the readings. We talked about issues that matter. Almost every week, we discussed something that dovetailed nicely with something I was studying in another class. I don't think that was a coincidence - I think it speaks to the importance and relevance of this course.
Very interesting subject matter and Anya is incredibly supportive and enthusiastic
Anya is a fantastic professor that you should definitely consider taking a course with at some point in your Social Studies career at Harvard. Though from my understanding all of the junior tutorials are fantastic classes, it is also my understanding that Anya provided an unprecedented amount of feedback to students and interaction with them during the writing process that is an undoubtedly invaluable experience as you learn to write a research paper and prepare for your thesis writing.
If you're interested in social mobility, poverty, or education policy then this is a good class for you.  Anya really helps guide you through the research process.
Anya is supportive, friendly, and simply awesome!  The course itself touches on a range of topics, and you're free to write your research paper on whatever interests you most.  Loved this class.
This class is very interesting and its breadth allows you to fit your particular interest within larger issues and compare one issue to other related topics. Anya is a fantastic professor and helps you to cultivate your particular interests in one academic subject or another.
This was the first time this particular tutorial was taught, and as such the material was a bit broad- however, Anya is a fantastic teacher and mentor, and she made our class discussions interesting nonetheless. She is also a very supportive person to work with as you undertake what is likely your first research project of this sort!
This course has been probably my favorite at Harvard. The syllabus was excellent and I learned a ton both from doing the readings on my own and from classmates during our discussions. Anya is an excellent teacher. She was not only a great discussion leader but was also incredibly helpful and supportive throughout the research project process. I have lots of friends concentrating in Social Studies, and as far as I know there is no other tutorial leader who offers the amount of support and guidance Anya does for the research paper. I had a wonderful experience choosing a topic and conducting my own original research, and after writing my final paper for this class, I could not be more excited or enthusiastic about working on a thesis next year. Overall, this class was a great experience, both as a seminar on social mobility and as an introduction to independent research.
This class was great! Anya is a great tutor who is really supportive and helpful. THe students all really care about inequality in America and therefore everyone contributes a lot and class is lively and interesting.
Anya and the other students made the course, but this was luck of the draw. I recommend taking a course with Anya, but not on this topic because social mobility was just way too broad and that put a damper on the course for me.
