The course covers a huge range of subject matter within the topics of globalization and nationalism. There really is something for everyone, and Nicolas made a real effort to include material that fit all of our interests. Overall this was a fantastic course. You honestly can't ask for a better tutorial leader than Nicolas.
Nicolas is a great teacher and this is definitely one of the best junior tutorials out there! It relies heavily on what students want, so students can greatly choose what direction the class will take.
The research paper may seem intimidating, but the other assignments will make you well prepared to write it.
It is the best tutorial. Take it for sure, especially if you like political philosophy.
This is a fantastic junior tutorial. The subject matter is broad enough to enable you to apply course concepts to a wide variety of issue areas, meaning that if you are someone who gets into the course (it is always very competitive to do so), you are someone who will have no trouble matching your desired junior paper topic with the course subject matter. Nicolas does an excellent job getting the class excited about the subject matter, ensuring that everyone will be participating in class discussions, and then empowering students to lead those discussions.
Amazing tutorial, if you're lucky to have a good group in class it might be your best class.
This is a fantastic course. Nicolas created a space for some of the most fascinating conversations I have ever had. The course did an excellent job applying theory and philosophy to the study of globalization. One thing to point out: although this course helped me think about ideas for possible thesis topics, there was not all that much emphasis on learning methods.
A really great class that touches on a diverse set of topics that could excite anyone in social studies. You can bring in as little, or as much, theory as you would like. Dr. Prevelakis is super awesome and guides class discussions well. The weekly memo is not too much work and most of the readings are very interesting. The class discussions were great - the other students in the tutorial brought in outside knowledge that made for rich and fascinating conversations. I am sad that the class is over, but am happy to have had such a rewarding experience in social studies.
If you are at all thinking about writing your thesis on national identity, globalization, or anything involving the integration of different groups of people, I strongly suggest that you consider this tutorial. You will not regret it.
Nicolas is incredibly nice and a great teacher. The material is also super interesting, although more focused on Europe than you might expect. We had excellent discussions, and a lot of the readings are fascinating. You have almost complete freedom in choosing your final paper topic and methods, but it can also be a bit frustrating that there are no guidelines or specific requirements. Start thinking about how you're going to approach your topic early, so that you can write a paper that's really worthwhile.
This is a great course! Chances are that if you're looking at this course you have to take a Social Studies seminar; if so, this is one of the best, in my opinion. Nicolas is awesome, the readings are great, and discussion is fantastic. Just know that you will have to write a 20-25-page term paper at the end of it.
This course is possibly the best one I have taken at Harvard. Its subject matter is fascinating - linking two concepts that aren't always thought about together. The discussions were of a high level, and to me demonstrated the best of what a discussion-based seminar could look like. I really felt a sense of community with my classmates as well over the course of the semester. The readings were both incredibly broad and meaningfully deep, and Dr. Prevelakis was great at guiding discussions. He is also engaged outside of class, and clearly cares about his students, even bringing us coffee to class every week. I would highly recommend taking this course.
This is a great tutorial to take. Even if you're not very interested in the material, it's more important to have a good instructor who's willing to allow you to incorporate your interests into the papers. Nicolas is definitely the kind of person you would want advising you for your final paper--he provides helpful insight and is overall very nice.
Do what you can to get into this tutorial!! Nicolas is fantastic and if you are interested in globalization, nationalism or any of the topics discussed over the course of the semester, you must be in this seminar!!
great class with a great teacher.  readings are interesting and manageable.  addresses questions about the role of the nation and the effects of globalization on the world.  flexible term paper at the end leaves room for almost whatever you want to study
This was a fantastic junior tutorial - the material was intriguing and diverse, and the discussions were always well facilitated. Furthermore, as far as writing your end of term paper goes, Nicolas couldn't be any better: he helps you narrow down your interests, is encouraging, and always has good feedback. A great way to prepare for senior thesis writing.
Nicolas is amazing and totally makes this class. I had never thought of taking a class on globalization/nationalism but ended up finding the material fascinating. Nicolas is great about letting the readings and the discussion reflect students' interests. Great tutorial, great class, great experience. Definitely take this! Even if you're not thinking about globalization, it's worth it for Nicolas!
Nicolas is wonderful! He is a fantastic teacher and very kind. I sort of feel that I came away with a hodge podge of information rather than a clear body of knowledge, but it was a very enjoyable class with interesting topics.
Nicolas is a wonderful teacher, probably one of the best you'll have at Harvard. If you have the opportunity of taking it, I would definitely recommend doing so. The readings are very interesting although discussion can be a little annoying depending on the students in the class. Overall, a great class with a great teacher.
This is a great course.  Nicolas is one of the best instructors I have had at Harvard.
If you're interesting in the material after you look at the syllabus, take it. Everything about the class is perfect, as long as you find the material stimulating.
Take this class if you're interested in Globalization and the Nation State and especially if you're interested in Europe. Nicolas is a great tutorial leader and he'll listen to your needs/concerns so let him know what you want out of the course early so he can incorporate it!
I LOVED this class, highlight of my Social Studies experience. My focus field has nothing to do with globalization but I still found it really interesting. Completely worth taking it for Nicolas!
You need a good European History background or background in IR to get the most from this class, but Nicolas is awesome and you'll be glad to have done the readings while you're writing your thesis
This class is phenomenal. If you have any interested in nationalism, the state, or globalization, you should take it. It is perfect for students who aren't quite sure what they're specifically interested in. Nicolas is a one-of-a-kind tutor who helps you every step of the way (with the paper and with the class) and generates great discussion.
Nicolas is great! Good for theory as well as practical concentrators, interesting and relevant subject material
Great class to explore some pressing current issues.
Don't be afraid to take charge during discussions to move it to topics that interest you -- otherwise it will be prone to going places you don't find interesting and you'll get bored or annoyed.
Nicolas is THE MAN -- more than anyone else I've met at Harvard, he genuinely cares about the students in his class and will go well out of his way to help them.
This is an amazing junior tutorial - be prepared to do all the work and participate, but you will get so much out of it.
Nicolas does a phenomenal job with this course. He is passionate about the subject and does a tremendous job of recruiting you to share in his enthusiasm for the subject matter. There was no BS work and all of the assignments (and there weren't many) represented genuine learning.
This is a fantastic course! You should definitely take it if you are interested in globalization, nationalism, the nation state or international relations in general.
Nicolas is the bomb. This course is thought-provoking, well taught, everything a Junior Tutorial should be. Take it and don't look back.
This is one of the better classes I have taken at Harvard. Nicolas is incredible and one of the nicest, most accessible teachers I have ever had, and the course syllabus was a fascinating inquiry into the nature of the modern world in a whole new way. Take it, take it, take it!!
Absolutely one of the best junior tutorials in Social Studies (from comparing my experience with other students in the concentration) and THE best class I have taken so far. It was one of those rare classes that I not only enjoyed, but actively looked forward to going to each week. The people constantly impressed me with active discussion and helpful feedback (so this might change year to year)but the topics of discussion struck me as interesting enough for anyone, even if globalization isn't your focus. These are issues we will all be faced with in the coming years. Most importantly - Nicolas is AMAZING. the professor makes the course, end of story.
AMAZING one of the best courses I have taken- best discussions bar none.
Nicolas is a wonderful and a fantastic teacher. He is SO smart. The class was purely discussion based, which was an incredible learning experience. Take this class!
Nicolas is an intelligent and sympathetic teacher.  I strongly recommend this course even if the topic is tangentially related to your thesis research; it will give you a strong background in nationalism theory while leaving enough time to throw into your research program.
Essential if you think at all about nations and nation states and the fundamentsl concepts such ss these that lie beneath and shape our political institutions.
This class was by far the most incredible, enriching experience I have had at Harvard. Nikolas goes out of his way to make the class a great experience for each and every one of his students. You'll come out of his class with a new perspective on the world. Take this class, I really couldn't recommend it highly enough.
This course helps unravel the mysteries of globalization and nationalism, and is the perfect mix of theoretical and applicable.Professor Prevelakis is an excellent instructor- he leads discussion without defining it, allowing the participants to engage and discuss the topics they found most compelling. The material is fascinating- and we were gifted with engaged and motivated students, making this seminar by far one of the most enjoyable classes I have ever taken.
