Take this course. Carla Yumatle is without a doubt the best teacher I've had during my time at Harvard.
A good course in more analytical political philosophy. Carla will keep pushing until your arguments are crystal clear.
Take this class! Carla is great. She really loves her students and is incredibly helpful outside of class. The readings are interesting, and the course was well structured. I learned a lot about liberalism, but also a lot about utilitarianism, feminism, multiculturalism, etc...
Liberalism and its Critics is challenging but manageable, and extremely engaging. If you're willing to participate in class discussions and interested in political philosophy, it should be a great experience. Be mindful that the final paper is the vast majority of the overall grade, so you should be prepared to work on it well in advance and dedicate ~60 hours of research and writing to it. Also, Carla is a wonderful instructor and the class is more fun than many other Social Studies tutorials.
Its a challenging class but worth it.
I struggled with some of the reading, but I really enjoyed and learned a lot from discussions. The paper was really challenging as well, and I think it pushed me to be a more methodical writer.
this is an amazing introduction to liberalism and political theory. possibly the best seminar i have taken at harvard. outstanding. take it.
This class was a serious look at the tenets of liberalism, from equality to democracy to economic freedom to its roots in the Renaissance and medieval era and before. Expect quality debate and expect Carla to push you hard on a point you make, but expect to come out knowing a lot.
It is a good course. The readings are solid. The workload is manageable. However, you really need to be willing to work on your own because the course structure is not that conducive to learning. I would really recommend taking it only if you have a real interest in theory.
On the bright side, Carla is very smart, and the discussions were quite enlightening on a weekly basis; the readings are also well-selected. A great cover of recent political theory. On the down side, the course needed better management and felt constantly disorganized--Carla probably needs to make teaching a slightly higher priority.
This class was confusing. Carla had clear favorite students  very clear favorites. She roasted us in class in a non-productive way and put people on the spot aggressively, and while she said she did it with good intentions it didnt come across that way. She parodied the arguments of some people in the class and made people with bad arguments feel silly for the benefit of the rest of the class. We were given no guidance for the assignments. The terminology in the class was confusing and the tutorials left me even more confused every week. Some people in the class seemed too scared to talk. Some weeks there were very heated arguments that were not productive and left people tense, and the arguments were not moderated. We never rescheduled a couple of classes. I didnt look forward to this class, and I dont think I learned very much from the discussions. I will say that our final papers will be good, and she did push us very hard. Some people were certainly embarrassed publicly at some points in this class. Some opinions were dismissed as foolish. This class had a lot of potential but ended up being confusing and abstract, which made me more confused than when I came in.
Expect class discussions to be engage in the readings, and the amount of readings to do per week is on the heavy side. Discussions were very interesting and intense.
This is a challenging but very rewarding tutorial. Carla is an incredible tutorial leader who will push you harder than some other teachers. But that toughness is well exceeded by the amount of support and encouragement she gives her students. She is what makes this course really special.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. What sets this class apart from other classes, even in social studies, is that Carla will push you like no one else to defend your stance. This doesn't mean that the environment is overly intimidating--everybody still talks, but you have to come to class really having considering what you read. This standard elevated class discussion enormously. By the end of the class, I felt like I had a philosophical base to work at some of the major problems impacting our political systems to this day.
Carla is a wonderful teacher that can be like a pitbull when interrogated what you just said, but also loves to joke and have fun and really brings out the best in your thoughts. if you love theory or want to get a better feel for it, this is a great class
Carla is a challenging, but extremely good tutor. Take this class if you really enjoy theory, and are willing to learn about it in a rigorous way. Expect to pushed--Carla will give you honest and constructive feedback, but she will hold you to high standards.  Start the paper early, and go through multiple drafts on your own. 20 pages is both longer and shorter than you might think.
Be ready to get challenged on your answers. Carla is a great instructor and has an incredible ability to connect arguments and thoughts (and to remember who said what three weeks earlier). Class and discussion is great and even more so if you do the reading.
The course readings are wonderful if you want to get really in depth with the modern theory surrounding liberalism, but Carla is not the best discussion moderator, even by Harvard's standards.
Be ready to read a lot, and prepare to defend your opinions in class.
Focus on the readings that interest you, really delve into them, and them use them as a starting point for your final paper.
Carla is phenomenal. She is incredibly insightful with her thoughts, and she masterfully directs discussions to tackle the most challenging tensions in the readings. I am a much more thoughtful person for having taken this course.
This was the most challenging and most rewarding class I've taken at Harvard. For anyone considering a theory path in social studies, I would highly, highly recommend this class. Carla is one of the most brilliant instructors I have ever encountered, and also incredibly warm-hearted and caring. The course material is rigorous, and given you get a good group of peers so will be the discussion. This class has been absolutely key to my growth as a thinker - an excellent extension of Social Studies 10. The coure is an excellent fit for anyone who enjoyed Social Studies 10, and is looking to study political theory more in depth. Our year the discussion revolved largely around Rawls (not exactly shocking, given the subject matter) but I feel that Carla would allow each group of students to take the discussion in the direction they desire.
This course was fantastic. Liberalism colors much of current philosophy, policy, etc. While the exploration of liberalism was interesting, I thought that the exploration of the critics of liberalism was even more relevant. It forced me to challenge some of my own assumptions. Carla is a great tutorial leader - she is genuinely passionate about the subject and leads the discussions well. The course was thoughtful and insightful, even for someone pretty familiar with the thinkers covered.
If you are interested in political theory this is one of the greatest classes ever. I think that if you didn't it might be a little strong on theory.
Carla is the most wonderful tutor. Any opportunity to learn from her is one which you absolutely cannot miss. Also, the subject of the course is fascinating and important. If you liked SS10, and you like theory, then you will love this course. Carla is amazing and it is consistently exciting and interesting.
If you care about honing your intellectual precision and reading serious texts critically, this is the junior tutorial you should take.  It will demand a lot of you, but it pays you back.
