Again, you need a passion for learning better the art of human community and how to deploy this art to further social justice."Very difficult" only insofar as this passion leads to unique and intense struggles--yet every step, however painful and doubtful, if taken authentically, is infused with love and joy.
Class takes major emotional committment
This is the best class at FAS
It is an awesome course for those looking to develop as leaders and organizers. You learn a lot about yourself.
Make sure you pick a project that is really meaningful to you and that you can actually commit to.
Embrace it completely, take advantage of it!
This is an amazing opportunity to finally have your extracurricular endeavors to be recognized in the academic arena.  Also, Marshall's organizing notes are invaluable and should be read and re-read.
May have changed the trajectory of my life. Definitely one of the best classes I will ever take. Marshall Ganz is the most humble, down-to-earth god you will ever have the opportunity to work with. I you are passionate about making change, take this course.
This course has a great mix of theory and practice. I had little grassroots organizing experience and I came out of it really loving this kind of work. I am extremely grateful. Marshall is phenomenal!
Excellent course!
Marshall Ganz is wonderful. Learning from your peers is wonderful. Learning by experiencing new ways to create change is outstanding. This course is a self-reflective time for you to grow, and potentially use that growth to further a project you are tied to. The hardest part is finding a project that works well. Make sure it is something you are both dedicated to, and something that you can use the skills you're learning with.
Honestly, this was one of the most fascinating and incredible learning experiences I've had in a classroom (and out of one, as you'll discover if you take it) thus far. Marshall is truly an incredible teacher and a wonderful mentor and supporter of his students; our class itself also turned into a genuine learning community that I found myself happy to be immersed in on a weekly basis. I won't soon forget the lessons that I learned taking this class; I would highly, highly recommend it. You won't ever get another experience like this!
This is the closest thing to a life-changing class I've ever taken. If you're interested in becoming a more effective activist (or change-maker) in the world, then it is a must-take-class. The opportunity to interact with Marshall Ganz in such an intimate environment is highly uniqueyou should rank this 1st on your SS tutorial preference sheet, with top priority for fall term, to guarantee yourself a spot! He's number one in the fieldthe expert's expert. And yet he's down to earth and will take the time to get to know you individually. You can't ask for a better SS tutorial experience!
This course teaches you the ins and outs of organizing; you can apply this skill to your everyday lives, your interaction with your friends and classmates, and of course, in your organizing project. In that sense, this course is life-changing. I would recommend this course to anyone who is interested in organizing and leadership. It is good to have an idea of a project you want to pursue before coming to the class--and it's always good to have passion and purpose behind the project you are doing.
If you are new to organizing, this is a helpful course. If you have some experience, be cognizant that the course offers one model of organizing that may or may not be appropriate for your field work. Also know that other students in your class may not be as invested in their projects as you would be.
You will not regret taking it. It was one of the most meaningful classes I have taken thus far at Harvard
If you're interested in undertaking an organizing project, this class is the best way to add an academic/reflective aspect to what you're doing. You'll meet amazing people as well.
Your experience in this course depends fully on the organizing project you wish to take on. Make sure it is an issue you are passionate about, and if you are lucky, you will spend all your time working on it and it will be the most rewarding experiences you've had here. If you do not put all your time and effort and energy into your organizing project, you will not gain anything substantial from the readings or discussion.
Professor Ganz's organizing pedagogy is one of the best in the world. If you are at all interested in learning how to take effective, practical action to advance a cause you care about, definitely take this class. I entered this class with a solid background in activism (though this isn't necessary) and learned how to do my work much better---in fact, I realized how many destructive mistakes I had made and continued to make. To get the most out of this class, you will need to dedicate a fair chunk of time (5-10 hrs/wk) working on your independent project and really make yourself responsible for its outcome---this requires a level of emotional commitment much greater than for a typical class. Be sure to select a project (whether you start a new campaign or work within an existing organization) where you are the clear organizer/leader of the project.
This class thrusts you into organizing, so be prepared to start early, work hard building up your organization, and don't let the semester get away from you.  Set aside time to send emails and have meetings to ensure you're moving with good progress.  Also, have an idea of a project (or an organization to work with) before you enter the class.  It doesn't have to be fleshed out, but knowing what you're passionate about is essential in the class and with the project itself.
Be prepared to invest time in this course, because it is only worth it if you really try to make your project come to life
This is a very unique class that will teach you a lot about yourself and the things you care about, in addition to the concrete skills that you will learn from the organizing framework and practices.
This class will challenge your heart and your mind - be prepared to use both at all times. Don't be afraid to participate in discussions. And don't let time get away from you...your project needs you! But generally, this is a great class, a unique opportunity by several measures, and definitely a worthwhile semester.
Take the class. Ignore the comments here, ignore what everyone says, ignore your first impression of the class. It changes everyone, for the better.  You'll learn as much about yourself as much as you will about Cesar Chavez.
This has been one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard so far.
If you want the opposite of Social Studies 10, take this course.  If you want to be empowered to be an agent rather than a passive scholar, take this course.  If you want to learn how to bring people together to achieve a common purpose, take this course.  If you want to be a more reflective person, and more mindful of the consequences of your actions in many realms of life, take this course.
This course was life changing - it made me reconceptualize my role as an active, caring individual in my communities.
Unlike other tutorials, the emphasis is not on writing. However, this is truly an inspiring class that taught me valuable skills for leadership and making change that I am sure I will use for the rest of my life. You'll probably get the most out of this class if you have an idea for a project when you start - it can be hard to start up momentum.
This class was the best class I have taken at Harvard. It is a lot of work, but the work is not hard because most of it is on a project of your choosing. It's a lot of fun.
This will be the best class you take for development personally, and also to open your eyes to human relations
Do this class if you have an idea of a project you can really commit to or are already involved with
I'd only take this course if you are already doing organizing. if so it can be a good space to reflect. I wouldnt take this course to start a new project.
It's a one-of-a-kind class at Harvard that combines field work with theory, social psychology, and a unique opportunity for critical self-reflection.  The class discussions are great, and the more you put in, the more you get out.
a life changing experience. you will learn a lot about yourself over the course of the semester
If you're thinking about organizing (either academically or for your career), take this class
Great experience! You will learn so much about working with other people, about your self, and have a real sense of accomplishment at the end.
the more time you spend on the course, the more you learn
Take advantage of this opportunity to learn as much as you can from Professor Ganz, who has not only a wealth of knowledge and experience, but a certain uncanny way to get you to probe yourself and learn from yourself and your peers.
you will get a lot out of this class but it won't be in the ways you will expect.  be open.  if you throw yourself into it, in whatever way that means to you, then you will come away having learned so much about your project and yourself.  be prepared for a lot of introspection (it was the most important part of the course for me).
This class will challenge you and provide growth opportunities
Give this class the time it deserves, and every extracurricular, work experience, relationship, personal goal you are striving towards will grow in many new ways.
This is an amazing course that will completely revolutionize the way that you think about working with other people, power and social change.
this is a one-of-a-kind experience at harvard -- ganz's course is like no other -- it will require you to put in a lot, but you will get tenfold out from everything you put in
Best class you will take at Harvard.
