As with all seminars, the other students have a big impact on the experience. But the texts and Professor Stampnitzky are great. You'll learn a ton and wind up asking some pretty provocative questions every week. The topic also allows for a huge range of research topics when the time comes to write your paper. The style of the course makes writing the paper really painless as well.
Lisa is very knowledgeable and accessible, and the readings are all very interesting if you're at all interested in American politics from a cultural/sociological perspective. The only thing to be cautious of is getting pigeon-holed on a specific project because you're deciding very early on in the class and starting substantive work, so think about the early memos carefully.
I did not find this to be the most engaging junior tutorial. The readings and discussions were fine, but not lively or memorable. The layout is pretty good: weekly response papers to check in on how your paper is coming along, an extensive prospectus, a presentation, and then the junior paper. However, I was left thinking this was just an okay class, whereas because it was my junior tutorial, I really wanted to love it.
Spend time on the readings because they're gems.  Especially the early ones.  Always save time to revise papers.
If this class is to be offered in the future it should either be renamed or the syllabus should be restructured. The vague name, "Culture & Politics in the United States" implies a broad focus, but the readings center discussion around a much narrower topic: culture and politics in a post 9/11 world. I thought that far too many of the readings discussed terrorism which was not a particularly interesting subject to me. I would have preferred more theoretical works and I felt that the majority of the readings lacked rigor and that they belonged on the New York Times nonfiction bestsellers list rather than a college classroom.As the semester wore on it became extremely difficult to find the motivation to do the readings as they did not relate to any of the final projects that the students of the class were doing. This led to flat and fruitless discussion. I did not feel that any of the books that failed to provide me with interesting and relevant content redeemed themselves through methodological guidance. My first Junior Tutorial gave me methodological training, an introduction to scholarly debate in a field which interests me, andthe confidence to write a 25 page research paper. I do not feel that this course offered me any of those things nor did it help me develop as a student or further prepare me for writing a senior thesis. If the Social Studies Department requires students to take two Junior Tutorials they need to make that a worthwhile experience by structuring Spring Tutorials to be more demanding or more instructive. In its current form the Spring Tutorial feels like a less efficacious repeat of Fall semester.I was very disappointed in the number of course meetings which were cancelled due to Lisa travelling for job interviews. I do not fault Lisa for this at all; I place all of the blame on the Social Studies Department. As a department which employs instructors on a short term basis, most of whom are actively seeking more permanent employment, Social Studies should have a better substitute system in place. The Department really let the students of this tutorial down as we missed three full meetings due to travel. I found the makeup tutorial on the final day of Reading Period to be inappropriate given that many students have essays and final projects due on this day.In its current form the few course meetings we had weren't worth the time.
This course was very good for me because it allowed me to continue researching my thesis topic and introduced me to some very useful literatures and scholars.  However, I had some serious reservations with this course as well.  Our class was a smart and talkative group; however, Lisa is not a very good discussion leader.  She often interrupted, asked questions that killed discussion, and often did not dedicate the necessary time to discussion on the reading at all (preferring break out groups for paper discussion).  If you're a self-motivated person who has a good plan for the semester this class may offer a new perspective to explore, but if you're still dabbling then I would look somewhere where the teacher offers more guidance and a structured class experience.
Class discussion was disorganized. Content varied in terms of interestingness and relevance.
This course wasn't a bad course, per se; I enjoyed some readings and many of our discussions, but I also don't feel that I necessarily got a lot out of it.
