This is a great class  to take it you're at all interested in migration. Nicole does a great job of overseeing projects and preparing us to conduct research by teaching us the appropriate methodology (something lacking in other tutorials). Nicole is very helpful and always available to help outside of class, and she not only helps you with your argument and data collection but also has plenty of sources to recommend. The discussions are always interesting, and I felt I got the most from this class out of all of the ones I took this semester!
Take this class if you want to learn ethnographic research methods in practice. It was rigorous, and Nicole has high expectations for our work (which is super motivating), so if you want to get the best practice (in real life) of what thesis-ing will look like, take this class.
The material is super engaging, but regardless of your topical interests, Nicole is truly the reason to take this course. She is extraordinarily dedicated to helping students build skills as researchers and writers and makes ample time to meet as needed throughout the semester. Her super deep and caring engagement in our one-on-one meetings made me feel that she was truly invested in my success and growth. This course was a really important stepping stone in helping me work towards my thesis - I feel like I can now tackle that project with more confidence. Also a great class to take if you are interested in doing interview-based research (regardless of what you've listed as your focus field), since other Social Studies tutors refer interviewing students to Nicole for tips/best practices/individual guidance.
Take this class. You might be thinking, "Migration? Do I really want to spend an entire semester just studying MIGRATION? How boring!" And you'd wrinkle your noise. It's anything but. You might not expect it, but migration is a fascinating and surprisingly stunningly complex. If you're interested in development, globalization, equity, critical race theory, critical gender theory, classic theory, so on and so forth... you will love this class. The only people I wouldn't recommend it to are people that think they can 1) just float by their semester without working hard and 2) people who are geared towards the high level (policy, government leaders, private leaders) rather than the "low" level (memories, live experiences, and the construction and deconstruction of society and its norms) will either be bored or confused with this class. If that's the lens you're looking for, know there's nothing in here for you.
This tutorial was very engaging and interesting, providing an excellent overview of migration in theory and practice, as the course title indicates. It introduced me to a lot of aspects of migration that I was unfamiliar with before. Tutorial discussions were always very interesting, and each week provided us with something new to learn and discuss. Weekly response papers helped us analyze the readings further and bring something to class to discuss. Nicole was an excellent tutor who provided us with the necessary guidance on our research papers, as well as led weekly discussions to an appropriate degree.
Nicole is the best. It's pretty obvious that she's an anthropologist with her down to earth personality, easy-going approach to life, and friendliness towards people. Personally, I'm a huge fan of anthropologists as teachers. For anxiety-ridden students like me, they are like a breath of fresh air. When you stumble into their office hours in your crinkled clothes  with you hair in disarray and your eyes frantic because you have less than a week to write your 20 page paper, they don't blink twice and calmly and patiently help you think through your chaotic thoughts. When you walk out, you almost feel like you were in a therapy session. If this makes you think this class will be a joke though, you better think twice. Don't be deceived by their easy-goingness. Nicole is very demanding with high expectations for quality work and requires students to give it their all. You grow a lot from taking her class as a result. All in all, I can't recommend her as a teacher, mentor, and person enough. Even if you don't like the topic of migration, you'll be glad you took the class just because you got to know Nicole.
This is a great class. Nicole really cares about her students and the material. I think she does a great job of helping everyone learn the present material, but also in working with students to make sure they are developing their own unique interests.
If you are a social studies major, and planning on doing field research, then I strongly recommend this course. Nicole is an invaluable resource, very friendly, and prepares her students for both the interview process and the writing process. If you have an interest in writing your thesis on the subject of migration than this is a must take.
Take this class if you are considering doing interviews for your thesis and/or your focus field is even tangentially related to migration/citizenship issues. Nicole will provide very detailed and exhaustive feedback on your work.
This class was good overall. It was a bit too structure for my taste but if you're into that then you'll likely enjoy this.
The readings in this course are excellent, a combination of ethnographic and theoretical texts that ask the reader to challenge their assumptions about the relationship between citizen and the state. It's also a really productive space to think about all kinds of identities of belonging, and how they affect our experience of nations and nationality. But overall, this course is very much designed to help Social Studies concentrators figure out what they're doing. It's a great one to take your junior fall for that reason. Nicole is one of the best teachers out there. She's been a very encouraging, thoughtful, and informative mentor to have during the research process. If you take this course and are interested in the topic, you're making a good choice both in terms of material and professor!
This is a wonderful tutorial. I didn't realize how perfect this was for me at the time I lotteried into it. The course introduces students to a variety of literature about migration, and all of it is super interesting to read. All of the assignments are pretty manageable, and Nicole gives the best feedback on every assignment. As far as the paper goes, it is pretty easy to pursue a relatively wide variety of topics in this course. Nicole is super encouraging. I really appreciated her accessibility and definitely took advantage of her willingness to meet with metro talk about my paper often,One thing that you should know is that your paper will almost certainly involve interviews. I was nervous about this and really enjoyed the process. It was a great way for me to figure out what works bet for me as I prepare to interview people for my thesis next year. You will have all the support you need throughout the process, so don't be scared! You should choose this course if you are interested in people/anthropology/ethnography. You will learn a lot about the topics and about yourself and the way you view migration.
Nicole Newendorp is, in my opinion, one of the most amazing advisers that Social Studies students can have the opportunity to come in contact with while they are at Harvard.  Her commitment to her students' success, and your genuine belief that she has your best interests at heart and wants the best out of your research really compels you to push yourself harder than you would in most other tutorials on campus.  Her amazing guidance, coupled with the phenomenal opportunity for intense and pointed discussions on immigration and identity really made this course one of my definite favorites at Harvard.  The course is also an excellent bridge between Social Studies 10 and the rest of your Social Studies experience, I think, as you take general social theories and concepts and really see some on-the-ground application value for them on the subject of migration.  If you're even tangentially interested in issues related to migration, ethnic identity, or long-distance nationalism, I cannot recommend this class highly enough.  Pick a research topic that really engages you and if you take away nothing else, MAKE SURE that you take the time to discuss the topic, its methodology, and your findings with Nicole and with your peers.  I really feel like this class deepened my appreciation for the wonderful Social Studies department and that I'm ready to tackle my thesis, and it's mostly because of the stellar opportunity for feedback, questioning, and discussion related to an intense research topic that this course provided.
Great class with great readings! Nicole will force you to think hard about how to do social science research in an intentional way. It is very focused on interviews, however, for you macrolevel data people out there.
If you are interested in ethnography and migration, I cannot think of a better instructor or setting to approach these issues.
This is an amazing class if you are interested in migration. The social effects of migration are so large, this class has plenty of topics to cover- all of them worthwhile. The constructions of citizenship, migrant, and assimilation are all thought through and criticized. and Nicole is also an excellent guide through the junior paper writing process.
Nicole is a great resource for future thesis writers. Make sure to utilize her while you begin planning your thesis.
This was hands down probably the best class that I've taken at Harvard, and as a junior, I feel like that's really saying something with so many previous courses to choose from. Nicole is an amazing instructor who really knows the material and facilitated productive class discussions and, in our year, a really nice class community. If you're interested in issues about immigration, want to understand some component of your own family's past, or have a bent towards anthropology within the Social Studies fields, I'd highly recommend that you take this course.
Nicole is great! Talk to her whenever you have questions!
This is a great class that is always accessible.  Nicole is a great advisor, and she teaches how to do social science in ways that are more direct and helpful than I have seen in other Social Studies classes.  The material is interesting and meaningful but never overbearing.  The two hours of class discussion will be more engaging if you are willing to engage with some "meta" questions about social science and the presentation of case studies.  In three words: interesting, manageable, practical.  Also enjoyable.
This is a great choice for a junior tutorial. The expectations during the year are totally reasonable (interesting readings, but not too many); Nicole is also clearly very experienced in dealing with Social Studies kids, so her deadlines and assignments are really well-organized. In terms of the themes which the class covers, you can expect a lot of attention to identity and citizenship, with a pretty strong thematic focus on East Asian and Latin American immigration. That said, there's nothing in the readings that is so regionally bounded so as to be inapplicable to migration in general.
YESYESYESYESYESYESYES! Even if you do not have a particular penchant for ethnography, this course is a great introduction to the methods which academics use to position themselves in their research. I think this course is particularly important for those who are interested in doing quantitative research long term (it will force you to think about your relationship to your research subjects in a different way). Be prepared to do all of the readings (even if they are sometimes lengthy and detail-oriented). The research paper will kill you, but Nicole is INCREDIBLY helpful - you just need to ask.
Nicole is a fantastic tutorial leader who is able to provide structure to group discussions as well as incredibly valuable input with her firsthand experience as an anthropologist studying immigrant lives.  If you have any interest in migration and the forces that lead to it, diasporas, race relations, assimilation, or the methodology of sociologists and anthropologists, then take this course!
This class will certainly challenge existing perceptions one may have of migration, however, the topics explored in the class are primarily focused on particular regions, and may not fully satisfy an individual's interests if they are geographically-specific in any way.
A great introduction to a more anthropological and ethnographic approach to migration.
A great class if you're interested in the human side of migration.
This class has a lot of great material; if you're interested in immigration anthropological studies, this class will definitely expand your mind.
Nicole is a great instructor, and if you're interested in migration, I learned a lot from this class.
This course is highly effective in helping you develop certain data-gathering skills, but your writing development and development of structure there-in should be informed by the methodologies you are pursuing. Such is Social Studies. Be aware of what you want to gain from your junior seminar in terms of skill development when you're coming in and work to embed that in the discussion.
Whether you're currently interested in migration or not, this tutorial was incredibly interesting.  The course provides a really fascinating mix of theory and case studies, and I would have enjoyed doing most of the reading even on my own.
Very useful to learn about migration and its effects on individuals, communities, and nations. Reading load and assignments are manageable (read one book or several articles a week, write 6 short response papers throughout the semester and one final research paper).
A very well-taught and well-structured course. Nicole is an unbelievable teacher and adviser. The content is interesting and highly relevant. A great course!
I loved this course! It is very well-taught, and the topic can be analyzed through a variety of lenses: critical race studies, economic approaches, women/gender studies, etc. In addition, I felt that I learned a lot about conducting research, in particular conducting interviews.
A really interesting and well-taught class - we consistently had great discussions and the readings were really interesting.
This is a really wonderful course for anyone interested in issues of globalization and how an increasingly globalized world impacts the lives of ordinary people. Nicole Newendorp really knows and understands the issues and brings a wonderful enthusiasm to the subject matter. The readings are both varied and interesting.
I was initially hesitant about which social studies tutorial I should be taking, because I was stuck between taking something completely new versus something I felt like I already knew a lot about. This migration tutorial was the something I felt like I already knew a lot about because I'd taken classes on migration before, but boy, was I wrong. That was a huge presumption for me to make, because despite what knowledge I had on migration before, this class made me feel like I'd known really nothing at all before! This class changed the language I use when I talk about migration, how I think about migration, what I consider to consitute as migration, who I consider to be migrants--it completely turned everything I'd thought before on its head in ways that I think become more and more important in the world we live today that stigmatizes certain kinds of migration. Class discussion is so, so awesome, and Nicole also does an awesome job of facilitating. Also, Nicole is so awesome! Something I've thought a lot about during my time at Harvard is how often I feel like I have to leave my personal story outside of the class, or how I feel like contributing my personal story in class makes me seem less scholarly, or weaker. But Nicole makes you feel like not only does your story matter, your story makes your academic work richer, and that much more important. She knows that it's a necessary part of you, and why you study what you do or do what you do, and it's definitely one of the most validating things a professor has ever done for me.This was definitely one of my favorite classes of all my time at Harvard, and I would highly, highly recommend it--for both those who feel like they don't know very much about migration, and those who feel like they do! You're absolutely going to come away from the class with new ways of thinking not just about migration, but about ethnography too, and our role as researchers in the world (super helpful for thinking about thesis!). P.S. do the readings. It's hard if you're slow reader, which I am--but definitely do all the readings. It's very very much worth it, and is part of why I enjoyed the class so much.
If you're passionate about migration-related issues and want to think about contemporary events through a critical lens, this is the class for you! Not only does Nicole reshape your understanding of migration by introducing histories of migrants that stretches beyond the Western world, every reading thereafter challenges popular conceptions of what it means to be a citizen, what characteristics define the migration experience, etc. Lastly, if you want a BOMB professor who will push you to your final limit but also support you EVERY SINGLE STEP of the way with incredibly helpful feedback and constant emails concerning well-being, TAKE THIS COURSE!
The entire social studies department knew our class as the class who laughs a lot. Needless to say, it was incredibly fun learning from Nicole. She facilitated some of the best discussions I have had at Harvard. Everyone in the class was always eager to share their experiences and thoughts and felt comfortable doing so, which made the discussions incredibly interesting. The readings chosen for this class were very engaging, presenting the issue of migration from a wide variety of perspectives.
Take this class. It is incredibly unique in its ability to allow you to learn AND practice ethnographic research, and will be an incredibly useful springboard for your thesis. Nicole is quite literally the best professor at Harvard, full stop.
Nicole is the best and you will learn so much from taking a class with her!
Take this course!! It's fantastic and incredibly engaging.
