I would only recommend this course if you really enjoy and are excited about Latin America (or more specific elements of the subject matter), have a knowledge of the necessary assignments (primary research, typically interviews) for the final paper and are committed to working very hard. The instructor was amazing, Kristin really cares about her students, and makes the class fun. However there are a lot of readings to do, and the expectation is that they all be done thoroughly. And on-top of weekly journal entries I found myself to at times, be mildly overwhelmed. It is an interesting course, but I think is best for those that are very passionate about the topic.
This is not a chill junior tutorial. The amount of reading for this course is huge. Further, Kristin really expects you to do all of it and write a 2 page response paper every week. With often more than 200 pages of reading that you actually have to do, that's a lot. Then, there are journal entry nearly every week that take some time too. So in all there's a ton of work. I was pretty frustrated with this class many times this semester.
Social studies junior tutorials are supposed to prepare students to conduct independent research for their thesis. The most valuable resource for this endeavor is the preceptor/lecturer. In this manner, pick the tutorial that seems to have the professor that will best provide you with the support that you need. This may mean having the most experience in a topic or this may mean just having more experience advising undergraduate research. Kristin is definitely very knowledgable about the topic of poverty and development in Latin America and is very eager to offer support to students. Since it was her first year teaching, it did feel as though she was a bit nervous at the beginning and was trying to figure out what worked best for our class. I picked the class because of the text we would be reading and, indeed, they were really engaging and went very well with my interest in Latin America. At the end of the day, however, I wish I had picked my tutorial based a little more on the experience of who was teaching it. I don't think that everyone needs to take this approach, but looking back, I realize that I already knew my area of interest and what I most needed was more guided instruction on how to conduct independent research.
This course is very conflicting. I thought it had incredible readings; during our discussions, there were times that Professor Skrabut provided truly insightful commentary. However, too much of the course was interspersed with disorganization, excessive work and a lack of clarity from the instructor. If you want a course that will explore the process of doing research, prepare you to interview, or guide you with a thesis, this probably is not the class for you. If you wanted to make critiques on power and positionality, then there were moments of this course that were brilliant. However, even then, it fell short.
The course is excellent if you have the time to put in the hours, but it can also sometimes be overwhelming. If you're looking to get familiar and comfortable with anthropological methods, and are willing to be challenged, then you will enjoy the course. Don't worry so much if you're not especially/exclusively interested in Latin America, as Kristin is flexible with final paper topics. In short, if you want to learn about anthropology and are prepared to work, the course is a great choice.
The class is great but the amount of work and difficulty is reserved only for those who actually want a challenge.
