This is one of the best courses that I have taken at Harvard.  Completing the final research paper is difficult because it is time consuming; however, it's really rewarding, and I think it will be good preparation for writing a thesis.  Professor Macdonald knows everything you could possibly want to know about the US healthcare system, and she really wants everyone to get the most out of the course that they can.  She is more than willing to help you if you need it.  TAKE THIS COURSE.
Professor Macdonald is an excellent teacher. This is a rigorous and immensely rewarding junior tutorial. You will learn an incredible amount about Health care issues, and will gain valuable practice with qualitative methods like interviewing and observation. This class really prepares you for the senior thesis. TAKE IT if you get the chance!
This is a great junior tutorial with some fascinating content that should be required reading for everyone living in the United States. Professor Macdonald really knows her stuff, and is great at presenting healthcare as a human rights crisis and getting us to feel some of that sense of urgency. From my conversations with other students, it seems like this class was more work than the average junior tutorial (beware of the interviews; setting them up and transcribing them takes a lot longer than you expect). However, I also feel like we got more methodological training than most. The readings and class discussions were very interesting, although it sometimes felt like the class was trying to achieve too much at once (readings, movies, fieldwork, methodological training, discussions, class presentations, response memos, term paper, etc.). The grading is also a bit obscure - we got the assignments back quickly and with helpful feedback, but many students including myself had no idea where we stood in terms of a letter grade until the very end of the semester.. With some caveats in minds, this is a great course in the Social Studies department which I highly recommend if you're interested in healthcare!
This is an incredible Social Studies tutorial -- having taken a few, I can say with confidence that this one had some great and very unique strengths.  Each week, the material will really "come to life" with great videos that Professor Macdonald has selected (think documentaries that will really pull you into your readings).  The focus on the final paper throughout also makes this a great class from a methodology perspective, as you'll learn a lot about how to do interview research for your thesis, even if your topic is unrelated.  Overall, this is an exceptionally well organized tutorial and one that I recommend highly despite the fact that I had almost no exposure and little interest in healthcare specifically before taking it!
Take this class if you want to learn to write a thesis doing actual field work. Almost no other course at Harvard will offer you the experience of conducting true, original qualitative research prior to writing a thesis. Also, even if you don't find healthcare riveting, this is a great way to understand one of the most important political, sociological and economic problems of our day. Side note: if you're super conservative (like from the tea party or obsessed with elephants), you'll probably hate the general liberal bias of this course. As a very moderate political person, I didn't mind it and it changed my views on what universal coverage means, and why it is important to have. *changed my views for the better
This class is quite a lot of work, but it is very interesting and I definitely learned a lot
Great class! You learn a lot about the healthcare system. That being said, I wouldn't take it unless you are super interested in the U.S. healthcare system and want to write your thesis about it, because then it'll be boring material to you that aren't too exciting unless you just really like learning about the US healthcare system  (i.e. Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act). Regardless, the professor was great and you mainly focus on interviewing, so only take this class if you intend on conducting interviews for your thesis.
The course is challenging, and the workload (rather, the reading load) is relatively great. Still, in looking back upon the course, I am glad that I took it. I feel more confident with regards to my interviewing practices, and more well-equipped to move forward in conducting research for my senior thesis.
You will walk away from this course feeling so much more knowledgable about the American health care system, feeling like you could have an informed conversation with someone about the Affordable Care Act, feeling passionate about health care in America, and having definitive opinions about various aspects of health care in America. Not only that but the research methods, namely interviewing, you will learn over the course of doing your project will suit you very well in beginning to think about both a thesis topic and how to conduct your research.
Prof. Macdonald is wonderful!  The material in this course is consistently fascinating and you come out feeling very prepared for your thesis research (especially if you're planning to conduct any sort of interview).  We would also have movie nights at Prof. Macdonald's house - those were incredibly fun, the movies were always so interesting, and the class would really come together over those evenings.  If you have ANY interest in healthcare, take this course!!
You will learn a lot about our current healthcare system, so expect to be outraged at least once a week. Professor Macdonald is great, and has a great deal of knowledge to offer on healthcare, as well as on conducting research and interviewing.
Methodological, sociological, ethical, medical, and economic study of US health care system
This is a great class if you're interested in writing your thesis on a topic relating to healthcare, or just if you're looking to learn more about healthcare in America. The course was definitely demanding, but the material was very enjoyable. If you're thinking about using interviewing as a method for your thesis, this is a great option.
Enjoyable and engaging class. Aaron is an amazing tutor - I was continually impressed by his intelligence and ability to articulate his ideas.
If you are at all interested in the American healthcare system I would absolutely recommend that you take this class. It is definitely not a history class, but I do feel like I gained a huge amount of knowledge about the history of the US healthcare system by taking this class. Accordingly, I feel like I have a much greater appreciation and understanding for the way that the US healthcare system has developed and what it is today. Even if you aren't particularly interested in healthcare I think that anyone who wants to be an informed citizen and better understand current healthcare policy should take this class.
I loved this tutorial! Very reasonable amount of reading, interesting and engaging discussions, great variety of readings and topics, enough flexibility for the final paper... Aaron is an AMAZING tutor, he is really good at keeping things engaging and making sure everyone is interested in the discussion. I strongly recommend this class. This was the tutorial experience I was hoping to get with ss10 but never got.
Really interesting material and tutorial leader
Be prepared to learn a TON on healthcare in America from an incredibly knowledgeable individual. The class relies on some great readings, but at times can be a little unstructured.
