Even though my primary interests do not revolve around, this class was very enjoyable and I appreciated getting a stronger background on some important work in the field. Katie is a kind and helpful teacher who provides useful and thoughtful feedback on assignments and in meetings.
If this course is ever offered again, which may not be the case, it will be well worth the time and effort if you've a genuine interest in the subject matter. The workload throughout the semester is more than manageable, and if you get going on the final paper at a reasonable time, you will find it a challenging, but rewarding, experience.
Katie is awesome - really good class, especially if you're looking for something that will help you write a theory thesis or chapter.
This is a course on neoliberal analytic philosophy.  It approaches questions of global justice from this perspective and this perspective alone, so be prepared.
If you're interested in global distributive justice, you might think this course would offer you a worthwhile experience.  In its present form, it doesn't, and you are far better off pursuing your interest elsewhere.
-does teach You how to think about global distributive justice
The course material is really interesting and the professor is really nice and cares about her students. But she's also inexperienced, and it shows. It isn't always clear what she wants you to do on assignments, and it's hard to get good guidance on things like the final paper even when you ask/meet with her. And the class discussion was dominated by two or three people, which was a product of the other students but probably also the professor somewhat. This class made me feel like I wasn't good at political theory, but I'm not sure if that was because I'm bad at it or because of the professor. I liked the theoretical readings a lot and felt like I got them, so in retrospect I'm pretty sure I would have preferred having a different class as my main introduction to political theory.
A great tutorial with a great TF. Really enjoyed all of the readings and was more aware of the major issues in distributive justice globally by the end. Just the right amount of reading every week and writing the research paper was a very educational experience.
I'm not entirely sure how I felt about this tutorial. Classes were usually interesting, as were readings, but I'm not sure what I got out of the overall class or why people study global distributive justice.
It wasn't quite as much of my bag as I'd hoped. But I'll learn from it.
This course is not easy, but worthwhile. It is a lot of work to keep on top of things, though!
If you don't like political philosophy and ethical theory, you won't like this class no matter how much you care about distributive justice.  If you like political philosophy, it's very fun.
