Great course on African Human rights as well as generally enlightening on the worldwide human rights agenda and rhetoric. McClendon is wonderful and she just makes the course quite interesting. You'll get email reminders with the basis questions of discussion for the week which is very helpful as you do your readings. Start the readings early though. They are pretty good and perusing might not be as easy as you expect, there is so much interesting detail.
Definitely take this course! Prof. McClendon is an amazing professor who is so dedicated to having students learn about research and about the topic of the tutorial. She provides excellent feedback on assignments, and after taking this class I feel very prepared to begin writing my thesis.
This is a great tutorial. Professor McClendon is incredibly invested in it; she has crafted an engaging syllabus that emphasizes both content and teaching of research methods, and spends a lot of time helping each of us navigate research for our final paper. Her comments are very helpful!
This tutorial is fantastic. If you have any interest in Africa or Human Rights, I highly recommend it. Plus, it also proved to be a mini-methods course as well. Professor McClendon puts a huge emphasis on method, which was really helpful. I highly recommend this course.
This course is awesome. If you've never taken a course on human rights before, this is a really good start because it's so interdisciplinary: philosophy (critiquing our conception of human rights), politics (in practice how do we think/act about human rights?), history (learned so much about many African countries), economics. It's really a solid course. the level of discussion was very high, due both to my peers and the professor's flawless facilitation of the class. Also, great that there are no costs associated with this class--no books to buy is definitely a burden lifted!
The subject matter really was fascinating. Prof. McClendon was extremely accessible and encouraging. She was great inside of class and out: to direct productive, interesting discussions, to lead us in how to write a successful research paper, and to answer any and all individual questions I had about my own work.
If you are interested in learning about the universality of human rights and whether the role of human rights in Africa challenges these broad interpretations, then I highly recommend this course.
Definitely take this course! Professor McClendon is incredible - she really cares about her students. You have to do the readings, but it's worth it because class discussion is so enlightening
Really great class. Professor McClendon is terrific, and the subject matter is really fascinating and moving. Take this class to learn a ton about human rights issues in Africa. So good.
