Really fun class.
Andrew Jewett is a rare resource for a Social Studies concentrator and any Harvard student who wishes to take historical argument more seriously.  He manages to be incredibly honest, while supportive of students in their writing process.  In a Social Studies meeting I went to, they said that writing a long research paper is like driving in the fog - it's hard to see where you're going and you have to rely on intermittent road markers to judge what you have left. In that case, Professor Jewett would be the calm, informed passenger in your car. He supports you all the way to your destination through his thoughtful questions and advice about this road he knows so well. Ultimately, he supports you to raise the stakes of the paper in your research and rhetoric.
Professor Jewett is easy going and a skilled facilitator of discussion. He was not very heavy handed in the paper-writing process, so if you are looking for a lot of guidance and feedback, this might not be the best choice. Interesting readings, but not much synthesis of them throughout the semester.
This is a great introduction to the topic of education (or at least it was for me as someone who had never taken a class on education before). I found the readings to be interesting nearly every week and writing the weekly response papers helped me to reflect on them on a deeper level before even coming to class for discussions. The research paper writing process is a challenge, so try to pick a topic that interests you early in the semester and spend time writing every week to make the final paper as good (and as minimally stress-inducing) as it can be. This tutorial attracts amazing students, so try to get to know everyone too!
Interesting material, but get started on your paper as early as possible.
This class will change the way you think about and look at the American education system. I strongly recommend this class to anyone who even thinks they possibly have an interest in learning more about the American education system.
You will be challenged to grow in your thinking about education and learn a lot about how to conduct interviews. This is a great class. Don't worry too much about reading every text in extreme detail; focus more on your own research and START WRITING EARLY. But at the same time, don't just skip over any readings; you will miss some gems that will change your thinking.
This course does a good job of touching upon many of the main questions surrounding the American education system today and their historical contexts. The biggest challenge of the course is the final paper. Although it's hard to motivate yourself to get work done early, the earlier you start your work, the easier it will be by the end of the semester (as long as what you're doing coincides with what steps of the process are being taught and discussed--this was an obstacle I encountered while trying to do some of my work).
An amazing course!
This is a great course, and Chiwen is a fantastic teacher who, more than perhaps any other professor I've had at Harvard, genuinely cares about her students. Just be sure not to procrastinate on the research paper!
This class was my favorite class of the semester.  It provides an excellent introduction to qualitative research. Everyone in the course wrote a junior paper on something they were genuinely interested and greatly invested in.
The seminar was interesting and engaging. I enjoyed many of our readings and found them thought-provoking, even though I don't intend to pursue education for my focus field or thesis. Chiwen prompted class discussion well and I gained a lot from discussion. The readings along with the extra assignments for our research paper could sometimes feel overwhelming, though all those little assignments were helpful for ultimately writing the paper. Overall a strong tutorial that I enjoyed. The CITI training for research is really annoying and long but is worth it for later research/thesis purposes.
This course is phenomenal. Not only does give a fantastic presentation of US education, but also deeply engages with most other societal issues and realities that are of extreme importance. Shapes a very critical, yet sensitive, lens on these issues are our place as actors affecting them. Research component was also a great experience.
This class absolutely convinced me to go in to education after college.
This class is a solid tutorial - there are interesting readings and discussions about the touchier issues in education. The class also provides a supportive environment in which to conduct independent research projects. Sometimes the class is a bit disorganized and discussions can get focused on personal stories, but it is educational to learn about your peers' experiences with education. Chiwen is very kind and flexible with project proposals, though you do need to do more independent study to figure out how formal research methods work.
I enjoyed the course, and I think Chiwen does a fantastic job picking readings that can relate to the interests of all the students. However, I think the course did not do a great job teaching the mechanics of research. I feel as though I have a good idea of how to approach research from a philosophical and moral perspective, but I don't necessarily feel that I have a great grasp on how to do it from a functional perspective.
might be hard to balance research component of the course with the weekly readings/writings but Chiwen does a thorough job of teaching us the basics of qualitative methodology and i foresee this class as being very helpful for my thesis later on. get started on your research early though and don't be intimidated by the process!!! better to start early than to freak out at the end like i did.
If you are really quant minded the purely qualitative nature of the course's methods and content can be a bit much, but if you can open yourself up to understanding why the material is presented in this way then it can be rewarding. Really good prep for working on long research projects and Chiwen seems to genuinely care about her students.
1. research what coding is and find out how to do it with SOFTWARE. you can use the coding methods of differing theorists easily and quickly with software. I had to learn from another TF that coding is meant to make the work of synthesizing your work go faster. Instead, this class made coding rather tedious. 2. come in with a research question in mind. Start writing immediately. Write your initial thoughts. Thoughts while you read, etc. You won't be graded on class readings. So focus deeply on your personal research. Look over readings that seem to apply to you and your project. If you have time, move on to the rest. Please read all the methodological readings if you can. Write until you can't write anymore. It will make your office hour experience better and more constructive. 3. apply what you have read to the news4. don't box yourself into a certain mold. sometimes i think this class aimed to box us all in as education reformers. We were all far from that. you'll have a more enjoyable experience if you relax and take it reading by reading. don't be afraid by other students who may have a reformer mindset. you may not know how to change the system or have the know how to do that. but you can indeed be enlightened of the educational realm in addition to theories that span other fields.
If you have even the slightest interest in education, this course may just change your life. If you don't really have an interest in education, Chiwen might just change your mind.
Take this class!! Chiwen will be the most dedicated and supportive professor you've ever had.  She cares about the material and her passion is contagious!  She also is committed to helping you develop as a researcher and her guidance is invaluable.
This is wonderful. Chiwen is a professor truly dedicated to undergraduate learning, and this is apparent in her teaching. The course is extremely interesting, and discussions are great because it is about a topic about which everyone has an opinion. The readings are many, but very good, so do them!
Great class. The readings were almost always great, the discussions were excellent, and Chiwen's inclusion of research methodology throughout the class was eventually quite useful when it came time to produce our own papers. Chiwen is also just a very, very nice person, and, while that seems unimportant, it's great to have someone like her to work with.
Chiwen is a fantastic instructor, the material is great, the tone is laid-back but intellectually stimulating, and you will learn a lot.
Chiwen's great. If you're at all interested in education, take it.
You will ask very important questions about the research process that will be essential to any social studies thesis, regardless of whether your topic is education or whether your methodology is primarily ethnographic.  Plus, the topic of education in America is a fascinating one and you will have many gripping discussions and debates about issues you may not even have realized existed!
This class offers an excellent introduction to various topics in the sociology of education at a micro-level. The readings and discussion format became somewhat repetitive. It offers you a chance to think critically about methods.
This course is a good intro to topics like the purpose of education in American society, the way that education perpetuates social inequalities, and some other topics like charter schools. It's fairly interesting, but I would recommend the course not for the content (which I thought was fine, but not wildly exciting), but rather for the excellent introduction to research methods. Also, Dr. Bao is really nice...and she brings food to class :)
Chiwen is brilliant. If you're really into the topic, I don't see why you shouldn't take it.
This was an excellent course and provides a very helpful background for those with an interest in education or who intend to pursue an education-related senior thesis. The readings really teach you how to think critically about how what we consider to be the role of education for individuals and society as a whole. Chiwen is very supportive and obviously cares deeply about her students, their work, and the subject matter.
This is probably one of the best tutorials I've heard of to prepare you for your thesis. You really learning about the issues in American education, challenge your assumptions, and practice solid research skills with a ton of guidance through the process. If you have a tendency to ever fall behind on work tho, this course doesn't really have room for that.
Chiwen is an extremely enthusiastic and open-minded tutorial leader. She is incredibly effective in guiding discussion, and I guarantee you will get a lot out of the material. The readings are pretty easy and straightforward and skimmable. I think this may be an easier option for a junior tutorial, especially if you are passionate about education because the discussions don't necessarily center on the readings. The course really made me think about the realistic obstacles in education reform, and I think that if you truly engage in the course, you will leave wanting to teach and forge a career in education reform, it's that mind-blowing how big the problems are in the American public school system.
It is a great junior tutorial to take if you are interested in education. Although the perspective is sociological, Chiwen will allow you to write your final paper on the sub-topic most interesting to you. There are 5 response papers over the course of the semester as well as weekly readings, two class lead discussions, and a final paper. Was a fantastic class!
Chiwen is a very enthusiastic and energetic teacher who really wants to make the class a great experience for everyone. Especially take the class if you are interested in the issues that it covers.
If you're very interested in education or in methodologies used by social scientists who research education, definitely take this course. If the topic is not as gripping for you, it will be a bit harder to maintain focus in this class.
It's a good course and Chiwen is super nice, but be prepared to spend most of your time rehashing the same course issues. Although if you aren't planning on only lightly skimming the readings that might be nice for you....
This is a great course if you have any interest in pursying a Social Studies thesis related to education.
Exposes you to the major issues in the education debate and leads you to assess potential solutions.
It is hard work but totally worth it. Quite discouraging in terms of what you learn but really interesting.
