Best course I've taken at Harvard, thus far.
This was one of the best seminars I've taken at Harvard. If you're even a little interested in doing theory for Social Studies, this is the tutorial to do. The readings are dense but the class taught me so much.
This class prepared me to engage 20th Century philosophy in a deep an nuanced way. One of the best most shaping classes I've taken at Harvard.
You don't have to do all the readings. Take your time with the blog posts and write a thoughtful response. You'll get more in return from your classmates. Start doing the research for your paper early. Take the time to meet with Rodrigo. Take him to faculty dinner!
This class will change the way you think about the world. If you are interested in theory, and are willing to put the time in, your investment will be heavily rewarded. Rodrigo is one of the most dedicated, intellectual teachers I've had at Harvard, and you should get to know him.
This was really a terrific tutorialI know that I would not otherwise have had any chance to engage at all with Heidegger, and I think the class was the perfect venue for doing so. If you're at all interested, do take itit's a branch of philosophy that I'm very grateful for having gotten some exposure to (even though I myself am a bit more analytically-minded and generally interested in more directly social/political theory).  I'll confess that some of the readings at the end of the course were maybe not as much for me, but it was still totally worth it for the Heidegger. Rodrigo is really a wonderful tutor, toohe was a tremendously helpful and erudite (but thankfully low-key) guide through formidable subject matter, and the tutorials themselves were a joy. He also gave everyone a significant amount of flexibility on their final papers in terms of topics, which was much appreciated, and structured the writing process in a very well-planned way.  One other thing I'll say is that a good amount of general philosophy knowledge and interest was helpful (though by no means really necessary)my formal philosophy background was only Social Studies 10, but having a sense at a pretty general level about what Kant and Aristotle had been up to was nice. Ultimately, this is probably not a tutorial for everyone. But I think it's probably for many more people than you might expectgive it a try! An immensely rewarding and engaging experience all-around.
This course is the reason why I chose social studies over philosophy. It combines rigorous discussion with a high philosophical standard with an emphasis on social and historical context that allows students to achieve a depth of insight that would not be possible with historical or philosophical methods alone. I feel extremely grateful to have had the chance to engage not only with Heidegger so closely, but also more recent thinkers who have drawn extensively on his thought. Rodrigo's depth of insight were absolutely wonderful. He took time to meet with students outside of class to give them meaningful and detailed feedback and guidance. In addition, he did an excellent job of leading discussions and supplementing the readings with handouts and mini-lectures when necessary.
The best "theory" course available for a social studies concentrator. It's not as "hard" as it might seem and totally worth it, even if you're considering doing quantitative work.
I really recommend this course if you are interested in phenomenology and Heidegger and want to close that gap in knowledge.  There will be times when you will be very frustrated with the course but that isn't the fault of the tutorial but the material itself--phenomenology can make you feel empty-handed.  But I still recommend it, it has affected the way I approach all my other subjects and really expanded my horizons. It does require a real interest in theory though.
Awesome tutorial. It's the only class offered at Harvard that covers Heidegger and phenomenology, and Rodrigo is really a great teacher.
This class rocks! Rodrigo is an awesome teacher, and Heidegger is both interesting on his own terms, and because of the enormous impact he had on Continental philosophy. Forget application. Stick with theory.
You will enjoy this class if you like continental philosophy. It will also be very useful for you. The readings are hard, but the class itself is not terribly difficult. Also, the students who tend to take this class are awesome (if you are anything like them), so I would recommend it!
A fascinating introduction to a radical philosophy. The biggest obstacle in this course is coming to terms with material, words, and ideas that initially seem totally alien and unintelligible. You will be totally thrown at first, and I thought Rodrigo did a great job in the first few weeks just explicating what the fuck was going on. Ungraded responses were great in that they forced you to do the reading but gave you some freedom in how much time you wanted to devote every week. Great job facilitating discussion, providing outlines and notes. This class changed my outlook on life to a greater extent than any other I have ever taken. You will feel clueless and lost, but through that, gain a sense of astounding awe at the the world in which we get to live.
Heidegger will change your life.  Please don't take this class if theory does not drive you.  I cannot say I've taken a course that has more directly impact the way that I encounter my everyday being.  Has permanently affected my relationship to philosophy and myself.
Dr. Chacon's class provides a rare gift: a solid introduction into the work of a philosopher who remains largely misunderstood or insufficiently interpreted. The course is closer to philosophy than social theory, but for those interested in considering the crucial questions that form the foundation of social theory -- how concepts are formed, how people imagine the world, how fields of objects are constituted -- it is certainly a tremendous opportunity.Dr. Chacon's teaching style -- rooted in his extensive preparation, genuine interest in the subject matter, and careful, focused discussion that does not veer off into unproductive speculative territory (as some social studies courses tend to do) -- is also excellent.
If you at all are interested in the philosophical aspect of social studies, consider this course. It was perhaps my favorite course I've taken at Harvard. Heidegger's thought has implications for all aspects of your daily life as well as intellectual explorations. Don't let the content of the tutorial scare you away. Heidegger is a difficult thinker, but you start with his early work and read so much of him that it becomes much easier to read and understand him throughout.
This course is what I hoped Harvard would be like overall. I took it course without having taken many philosophy classes and without knowing what phenomenology was, and I enjoyed it thoroughly. It's a lot of work and a big time investment, but the course pays off in ways that are not related to academics. If you're interested in philosophy at all, don't feel intimidated, but prepare for a challenging growing experience if you are lucky enough to make the lottery.
Take this course in order to become acquainted with a maverick of 20th century thought and to face some interesting, unsettling questions about existence.
Love theory. Professor Chacon will try to convince you that this is not a theory course; despite its best efforts, it decisively is.
