This class is very interesting in terms of the books that you read and Matt is great!  But I would think about how much you actually are interested in doing ethnographical work before signing on because that is a huge component of the course.
Don't take this class if you don't want to do ethnography. If you do want to do ethnography, then make the most out of the class. Don't take the books and the discussions at face value. Read for methods, push the discussion beyond research ethics, and ask research design related questions to ensure that you learn something applicable to your research with every week.
Great class. Matt is really engaged in the course and brings a lot of really fascinating experience in the field to class discussions. Great reading list, especially if you want to be introduced to what ethnography can do. The subject is obviously fascinating but, I think, often treated in an unexpected way. I would especially recommend this if you are thinking about ethnography for a thesis. Matt is very committed to the methodological portion of the course and I think it would be great training if you plan on using it. That being said, as someone who will not be doing an ethnographic thesis, I still learned a lot about the methodology that I think will make me a much better consumer of research in future.
Don't be afraid to push the professor. Professor Desmond can handle it and is not afraid to push you back to think more critically about how race manifests itself in America. Also, be prepared to feel frustrated and uncomfortable--that means you are getting somewhere.
This class was amazing.  Professor Desmond is so knowledgeable about issues of race and poverty, and he helped to facilitate some really amazing conversations.  He really treated everyone in the room as equals and challenged many of our ideas, which I really appreciated.  The books were all really interesting.  The hardest part of the course is the fieldwork, which is really fun... but you need to find a good field site quickly and remain dedicated to it throughout the semester in order to be able to write a good paper.  I recommend this class... my experience seemed way better than my friends' experiences in other tutorials.
This is a great course for people interested in the topic of race, and can serve as a useful introduction for people who have only a cursory knowledge of the subject. It provides a wide survey of racial issues in America. It is also a lot of work, particularly because of the field notes and the readings (one book per week), so the amount of time you have when you take it is worth keeping in mind.
This class offers a meaningful way to engage with issues surrounding race and racism in this country.
