Global East Asia was a wonderful course--the readings were very engaging (ethnographies are always fun to read!) and Nicole really brought out and honed in some of the key points of the anthropological discipline. She is also very accessible, easy to talk to, and always very, very helpful. Please take this course if you are in any way interested in East Asia or/and anthropology!
This is an excellent junior tutorial with intriguing and useful discussions on research methods (particularly ethnographic methods), role of the researcher, etc. Nicole is an amazing professor and discussion-leader! The class also opens up great discussions and frameworks to think about globalization in the East Asian context.
Great class, great instructor, especially if you're interested in employing ethnographic methods for your thesis. That said, if East Asia / ethnography are not your interests, you may find the material a little too specific / alienating at times, since almost everyone (this year at least) will have a focus on East Asia and/or plans on doing a thesis with ethnographic methods. However, it doesn't get much better than Nicole in terms of facilitating discussion and advising you on your papers and in life in general. Be prepared to do interviews for your junior research paper!
This tutorial is enjoyable, manageable, and well-structured. The readings are interesting, and connections across weeks become clear in discussions. Nicole provides good feedback (specific, action-oriented suggestions), will help structure final projects, and facilitates discussions, though often class discussions tend to be steered by the students. An interest in East Asia is definitely helpful, but the class will still be rewarding even if you don't have much particular knowledge about the region.
Nicole is knowledgeable and enthusiastic. I feel like this class really prepares you for conducting thesis research because it is so comprehensive. It goes over all the possible questions that could come up with conducting interviews, data collection, ethnography, etc. Our class also quickly developed a comfortable and supportive atmosphere.
Take this course if you want good guidance about how to conduct ethnographic research!! Nicole is really supportive and easy to reach out to throughout the semester, not only with your research paper for this course but also with thesis questions. The course material is interesting, for the most part, but even if you're not going to write about East Asia for your thesis, this class is a really useful methods course.
If you're interested in East Asia in any way, take this class! I would say that even if you're not interested in East Asia, but would like to know more about ethnographic methods, you should strongly consider this class. Nicole gives excellent feedback and truly cares about your work. I found this excellent preparation for thesis research in China over the summer. Truly great class.I would say to those who take this class to start your junior paper primary research early. Interviews can be difficult to organize, so keep that in mind.
What an incredible junior tutorial! If you are at all interested in globalization with relation to Asia, ethnography, or just want some good thesis prep, take this class! Nicole is fantastic and very organized!
This course was the perfect way to deepen and add dimension to my understanding of East Asia. It gave me a new way of looking at China, Japan, and Korea. It also blew my mind on multiple occasions by unpacking things I had encountered before, e.g. McDonald's in China, Pokemon, etc. Nicole is also one of the most thoughtful professors you will find here.
This class is great, and Nicole is great! Nicole cares a lot not just about you as the student in her class but also about you as the social studies concentrator and future thesis writer. Class discussion this year, in my opinion, could have gone a lot deeper, but that's probably on the students, including myself. The readings are fascinating and they will give you a different perspective on not just East Asia, but the world. The class necessarily problematizes East Asia by putting it as the focus of study, but if you're a prospective student, the key is to enter with an open mind; that'll open your eyes to global structures of power and patterns that are broader.
interesting seminar, but be prepared for a decent amount of reading (with weekly response papers) - and the final paper is definitely to be taken seriously as well
The readings were so interesting!! This class presents a critical look at globalization in ways that you might not expect, or have ever thought about before. Nicole is a great facilitator, and discussions were enlightening and filled with wonderful synergies. The methodological component was super helpful in terms of thesis preparation as well.
Nicole is an awesome person!  And since I did not have much experience with anthropological studies or ethnographic research, this class was a great way for me to see East Asia from a different lens than how I had previously viewed it (which was predominantly political/historical in perspective).  Nicole also does a great job guiding us through the research project for our final papers, and gives great tips on research, methodology, IRB stuff, and all the things we should be learning to write a thesis. If you are interested in East Asia in any way, definitely take this!
Even if you are not an Asia specialist, I would highly recommend this course! You will learn a lot about a fascinating part of the world, and many of the themes/concepts - relating to neoliberalism, flexible citizenship, etc. - are applicable to a wide variety of regions. This course also provides a great overview of ethnographic methods. Nicole's an awesome tutorial leader, and you will learn a lot from her and from your classmates.
This is one of the most organized courses I have taken in social studies - it doesn't repeat the same themes from the first three weeks of school, the discussion is always engaging and it is not as theoretically heavy. Take this course if you're interested in East Asiaprimarily Korea, China and Japanbecause you'll learn about those places in depth! Even if you're only interested in cultural globalization, this class will be fun.
This course is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. The course readings are incredibly interesting, you get to do a final paper on any topic  you want, and Nicole will provide you with better feedback and mentorship than nearly any other instructor possibly could. The discussions for this class were always incredibly rich and the assignments were manageable. I think that this class would be especially difficult for any non-Social Studies concentrators, but I would still certainly recommend the course to any students with enthusiasm. If you enroll in this course, make sure that you are very proactive about your long-term assignments and your junior paper. It will be long and could be especially fruitful if you dedicate a few hours a week to that project from the start. This year our class had a variety of students with a broad range of East Asia backgrounds. Whether we knew a lot about a few countries, one country, or none of the East Asian countries, I think we all got a lot out of the course. Everything we read and discussed was very interesting and incredibly important to understanding globalization and development in and from East Asia.
