This is an excellent research seminar, and I highly recommend it. The seminar fruitfully engages with a very important question in this particular historical moment - how the environment and politics affect each other - with both case studies and theory. For the research component of the course, Professor Caffrey is very engaged and helpful in directing more detailed research within this much wider field of inquiry. Furthermore, I consistently looked forward to doing course readings, as these were of a manageable length, interesting, and very informative. The theoretical and case study readings could be a bit too detached from each other to directly draw connections between the two, but I am confident that this will be corrected in the future. Again, the course is on an important topic, readings and discussions are interesting, and the Professor is a good teacher and a good guiding hand for research. I highly recommend the course.
The readings cover a variety of environmental-political topics on both a regional and international scale. The research process can be very frustrating and might make you feel lost at times, but having the opportunity to dive in-depth into a subject and allow your ideas to evolve is really valuable. The research process does require a good amount of self discipline.
While this was not my first choice, and did not really fit what I want to study, I am still glad I took it, simply because Caffrey is excellent, both in the way he runs his class, but also as a resource to prepare for writing longer research papers.
Readings and classroom discourse are centered, for the most part, solely around climate change. Other aspects of the environment, as well as politics and Asia in their entireties, are left somewhat to the wind. If that floats your boat, you'll love this class. If it doesn't, you may enjoy it less.
Take this class! Important topic for today. Professor Caffrey is thoughtful and deliberate in crafting the class. He really taught us how to write research papers. We had productive class discussions that wove in social theory from 10.
I really enjoyed this course!! The discussions were interesting and Caffrey is never dull. However, I do think that this class is for the self-motivated. Conversations are more interesting when students had not only done the reading but had caught up on current events too, and the more interesting paper topics/research came when students continually did research each week and not just on those when assignments were due.
Kevin is extremely knowledgeable about so many different topics and selected really great topics for the course material which helped to generate really great conversation in class. I learned so much throughout this course and would really recommend it to everyone, be prepared to put a lot of work in at the end of semester, but it's well worth it.
Definitely a course for students interested in environmental issues and willing to dedicate significant amounts of time to research.
class is totally what you make of it, would be helpful to have authentic interest in the subject matter
The teacher is great and the course material is very interesting
