If you can get into this class, take it. My favorite class at Harvard.
The class is designed with a very specific purpose and organizes the material in a very specific way, therefore it is important to make sure you are interested in the project of the course. If it is a project you are interested in embarking upon then the course is for you, if you are interested in a more liberal method of examining texts the course may not be for you.
To the hard core among you, take it.  To those truly interested in questioning the world and how we are and think in the world, take it.
Very interesting material, and a perspective on the modern world that is difficult to find in other courses at Harvard
This class helped to put some of the discussions of Social Studies 10 in a new light, and is really interesting for those students interested in development. The course is best suited for those that really do care about development, however, and I would recommend it to those who do not.
This is an excellent class that will shape your understanding of modernity at its most fundamental base.
Amazing class. Prof. Marglin is a great teacher, and the readings he assigns are oncredible. This course completely changed how I think about the world, and challenged me to think more critically about the assumptions I make, living in a modern Western culture. Also, no matter what your focus, you will be able to get something out of this class, especially in the final paper. Take this tutorial.
This course absolutely changed my life; I had never before thought so much about a course's discussions or issues while outside of the classroom or homework environment. Professor Marglin is wonderful, and the dynamic of the seminar is absolutely shaped by his thoughtful analysis of students' weekly responses and his guidance during discussion. Take this. If you're looking for one of those classes that change you, this is it.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard--and by a massive margin. Everything was life changing: readings, discussions, and especially Marglin (he is THE BEST). I felt challenged, respected as a thinker, and engaged. This class is so against everything else you'll learn, and you'll start to question your world. I felt moved by SS10, but blown away/changed entirely by this class. I feel like it's dangerous that the thought taught in this class is not taught to all. Be prepared to question your world. Overall, this is the type (and the only one I've truly found...) of course I came to Harvard for and the reason to be a Social Studies concentrator (you won't find this stuff in Gov...). I had an extremely hard time deciding on my first choice, but am so lucky I picked this class. Make it your (strong) first choice and come with an open mind...it'll be different after the semester. Marglin, I can never thank you enough.
The best class I've taken here, easily the academic highlight of the past three years for me. Fascinating readings... Professor Marglin does an excellent job of guiding discussion. I didn't want to do any work for my other classes because the work for this class was so interesting...there is a lot of reading but you'll want to do it all.
The readings are wonderful! Even if you don't do all of the optional ones, make sure to hang on to a copy of the syllabus - a lot of the readings are helpful in other classes. For your junior paper, make sure to go to office hours regularly and work on it consistently, and you will be fine. Don't wait until the last minute - things will end very badly for you if you do.
This is why you concentrate in Social Studies.
This class will fundamentally challenge your intellectual assumptions, even the ones that you assumed were settled. There are times when the structure is a bit loosey-goosey, but if you are truly interested in questions regarding development and modernization, this class will not disappoint.
Stellar reading list, great conversations, Marglin is a very smart guy.
The syllabus is amazing and for that reason alone you should take this class. The discussions are guided well by Professor Marglin, but if your seminar isnt smart or hasnt done the readings it won't seem good. Professor marglin is extremely nice, reasonable, intelligent, and experienced. in general he is a great professor to get to know and it's very rewarding to get to talk to him about the readings that we do.
Courses like these are the reason to concentrate in social studies in the first place. It's one of the best and most thought-provoking courses in the College. It will make you challenge your beliefs and understand the world in a completely different way.
This course may significantly influence the way you see the world.  Even if the topic doesn't appeal to you, I would highly encourage you to sit in on the presentation at the beginning of the semester.  You don't have to agree with all of Professor Marglin's views to gain a lot from the class.
This is one of the most best courses I've taken during my time at Harvard. Thought-provoking and challenging. Despite its very broad focus, the class is well-organized and very well-run. The discussions in tutorial are among the best I've had during my time here. The best part of this class is Prof. Marglin's sincere interest in the topic and in the students' experience. The epitome of what a good liberal arts education should do- challenge the student and relate the theoretical to the practical.
If you get the chance, take it. Marglin is a brilliant teacher, and takes genuine interest in your learning. The readings are mind-opening, and, as long as the other students in the class are on the same page, the discussions can be very interesting.
If you have a chance to take this class, do it. It is one of the few courses at Harvard that runs counter to the dominant streams of thought. Professor Marglin is extremely knowledgeable, the readings are great, the discussion is lively and the class really is transformative.
Professor Marglin is excellent and forces you to engage critically with the subject matter, even if you go reluctantly.
Great, interdisciplinary course.
The stuff you study and learn in this course is not stuff you'll really encounter anywhere else, and you will be a more thoughtful student and citizen for having taken it, regardless of what your focus field is. Having the opportunity to take courses like this are reason I chose to concentrate in Social Studies. It will rip you out of your comfort zone (in a good way) if you let it.
You are used to hearing orthodoxy especially on broad, vague topics like modernization and development. This class will make you rethink all of your assumptions about humans as social animals and development as an organized process.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard; it was personally transformative. I feel like this should be a requirement before going out into the world.
Professor Marglin is great, and the material touches on a variety of interesting questions.
Brace yourselves. Nothing will ever be the same again.
This is the kind of class that will change how you view all your other classes (in a good way)--take it!
While at times this can feel somewhat ideologicalProf Marglin isn't out to convert you, but he certainly holds out hope that you will re-evaluate your perspective on modernity and become more critical of it in the process it is one of the richest intellectual experiences at Harvard College. This course makes a terrific mockery of disciplinary boundaries, tackling a dizzying range of themes with ease. You won't find a better tutorial!
This class will really open up your eyes to things about the society that we live in. It is a lot of work and sometimes I was not happy doing it, but I definitely got a lot out of this course.
This is a class that requires a LOT of reading and a weekly response paper due every Friday at midnight. Also, there wasn't as much of a focus on development as I had expected - if I could rename the course I would call it "Colonialism and Modernization" because there was a lot of focus on colonialism and resistance movements. I guess that's what gives rise to the "development" part of the course title, but I just found it a little misleading. Definitely look at the syllabus to see if you're actually interested in the topics.
Be prepared to work extremely hard with limited assistance.
Take anything with Marglin
Take it, take it, take it. And take it to heart -- really spend time thinking about the lessons you learn in this course and internalizing what it offers. Don't be afraid to question yourself, even in the most fundamental ways.
Really asks you to question the way that you think and interact with the world; a class that can change your life
Be prepared to not receive much guidance on the final paper. On the other hand, this means that there is much more time to have great discussions about a range of topics.
Do as much of the reading as you can--it will be worth it.
This course requires an appalling amount of reading, but if you get it all done, you will have read the story of Man, as told by Professor Marglin.  It's not a story for the faint of heart, but it is the best story out there.  Best course I've ever taken.
Amazing. Highlight of my semester and time at Harvard.
This course will give you a whole new lens through which you can ask questions about the world and the way our society is constructed. It will make you uncomfortable and unsettled about the way that you've been thinking about these things so far. Readings are all gems, as was what Prof. Marglin has to say about everything. Recommend with both thumbs up!
What an incredibly thought-provoking, challenging, and eye-opening experience this course has been. Both the readings and the class itself are phenomenal! Professor Marglin is wonderful at facilitating class discussions, and I really appreciated the kindness and support he showed us throughout. The readings really changed me; they disproved many of my preconceptions and got me thinking about things I had never considered before. A word of caution: you simply cannot thrive in this course, or allow it to change you, if you don't do the readings!! Make sure you devote enough time and energy to completing them each week. I promise you will be blown away by this course if you do that :)
The readings were excellent, and I feel like I learned quite a lot about a wide variety of topics. It was a very Social Studies-ish course in the sense that there were a nice mix of readings/ideas from history, anthro, sociology, poli sci, philosophy, social theory, etc. The seminars varied, with some weeks being very interesting/lively and others pretty dull. I would have preferred more structure/guidance in terms of writing the final paper.
Professor Marglin is one of the most outstanding professors I have had at Harvard. The course covered a wide range of topics on modernity and development. I learned a great amount, and it truly expanded my knowledge of the topic. This course will transform the way you think about the modern world and different forms of knowledge.
