Definitely take this class - Kevin teaches you to think critically and to challenge the assumptions you hold about all sorts of issues. Caffrey's experiences doing ethnographic and anthropological field research in southeast Asia clearly informs his teaching. The readings are phenomenal, especially when you get to the second half of the course and read papers related to your research topic. However, be aware that there is quite a bit of reading (all manageable though) and the weekly session can feel a little long and tedious towards the end of the 2 hours. Sometimes it feels like Kevin is just rambling on about his life experiences rather than actually teaching us the tools we need to succeed on the final paper. That being said, his stories are great and inspiring! Take this course!
The best class I have taken here. Prepare to be challenged and do not shy away from it.
This was an incredible class. I almost don't want to tell you how great it is, because I love that it was a 4 person class which made it all the more special. But for your sake: Kevin if absolutely brilliant, and cares deeply about teaching. He is always available to meet and talk. He also remembers almost everything he has every read and thus is an incredible resource. In terms in the class, I wouldn't be deterred if you have no interest in protest, violence, or Asia. These are merely entry points to Kevin's overall project which is to get students to reconsider the basic categories or "technologies of difference" through which we see and divide the world. He is also deeply invested in making students "intellectual attack dogs" aka critical thinkers. I highly recommend going through the Caffrey Boot Camp.
Especially if you are a Social Studies concentrators, you would really miss out if you did not take any courses taught by Kevin Caffrey. This one focuses on East Asia but it teaches you the framework to understand and break down issues of ethnicity, nationality, race and gender.
Really great tutorial. Kevin is extremely knowledgeable about a huge variety of topics and is eager to share stories that elucidate the material we read. The choices of reading material are also terrific. Most are really well-written, and if they're not, there's a good reason Kevin chose for us to read them. Kevin is also very available outside of the class, which is also great. I highly recommend this course.
Excellent class to open your mind and learn a different take on news and some of your most fundamental beliefs.Kevin, the instructor, is just great. He has tons of field experience and it shows. Besides, he has some of the coolest stories and I would def. take the class even if only to hear them.
Mr. Caffrey is an amazing professor. He is incredibly knowledgeable about the subjects he teaches and he makes the discussions extremely interesting. This is one of the rare classes that will challenge your assumptions about a field and provide you with an awesome experience.
Kevin Caffrey is a FANTASTIC teacher.  He's spent over a decade in southeast Asia, and his experience informs his teaching.  Also, he's refreshingly straightforward, and he's an absolute genius.  I found the course content fascinating, and I learned how to write a lengthy, publishable, qualitative research paper.  Also, Kevin trained us to think more critically.  I highly, highly recommend this course.
Keven is an excellent instructor.  This is a very interesting class. You learn a lot.  Kevin teaches you to be a critical thinker.
Amazing!  If you are interested in Asia, conflict, identity politics, religion as a marker etc then this is the course for you!
If you want to learn how to become a more critical, observant, and overall stronger researcher and scholar, you will appreciate this course, even if you hadn't been especially interested in Ethnic and Religious conflict beforehand. Caffrey is a totally different breed from the typical Harvard teacher, and I mean that as a pure and serious compliment.
