Kiku is a generous mentor and tutor, and the course provides a solid opportunity for those interested in matters of culture, anthropology, theory etc. Highly recommended indeed.
Professor Adatto is one of the most supportive individuals I have had the pleasure of learning from here at Harvard. She is so thoughtful and reflective, and the discussions she facilitates will make you think very deeply. She has really grown me as a writer and thinker this semester, and I'm very grateful for having decided to take her tutorial because it has been tremendously helpful to my preparation for my thesis.
The readings are great, and the discussions have a ton of potential. Adatto is also so kind and excited to help you.
this class has a lot of breadth, but not a lot of depth. if you are coming out of Social Studies 10 looking for a junior tutorial that challenges your convictions and views as much as Social Studies 10, then this is not that class. No philosophy to be found here... but in terms of a class that gives you an interesting perspective and cross-section on the components of culture, it's pretty good
This is a great tutorial. Kiku is very enthusiastic and knowledgable about the subject matter, and gives great feedback and flexibility for research paper ideas, so if your topic of interest relates at all to culture & society you should take this. The weekly response papers were difficult and graded strictly (though you get a chance to rewrite them), but I appreciated this as it ensured I actually did the readings. Also, we watched Waltz with Bashir in class!
At first I thought this course would be really interesting but by the third week, it was fairly boring. The readings were okay, definitely things I wouldn't have known otherwise, but Adatto and the discussion were pretty weak. I think the course needs to focus more on certain ideas, it's a bit too much breadth.
Though the course materials cover a diverse range of topics, they're often covered only on a surface level. The course load is also quite large, considering the weekly response papers and good deal of reading required. Overall good, but not as amazing as its Q score might suggest
Even though this class is a lot of work, it is totally worth it. All of the readings and viewings were so incredibly useful/interesting.
The material is consistently stimulating, and offers a chance to have discussions that have relevance not only in an academic setting but can get into some very interesting facets of popular culture. Once you get used to the amount of writing that's expected of you week by week, the course is definitely manageable and can be very enjoyable when you start thinking about how it applies to everyday life.
This was an INCREDIBLE seminar. Adatto is brilliant and very encouraging and it seems to attract a great group of students. Very interesting content and a great balance of theory and information.
a tremendous array of a fascinating social theory, philosophy, contemporary journalism, sociology and visual studies relating to culture, subculture, hegemony, photography, advertising, and media. One of my favourite courses!
Do the readings. Do the readings.
If you are at all interested in popular culture this class is a must take.  The readings are extremely interesting and engaging and Professor Adatto does a great job facilitating discussions.  While the workload can sometimes be a lot, the intellectual reward is great.
Take this class if you want a good mix of theory and empirics, applied to visual culture in unexpected ways. You'll get the chance to engage with Plato, de Certeau, Sandel, and other important thinkers, but also with the work of graffiti artists, improv pranksters, and Cirque du Soleil run-ins with the Beijing censors. Themes like photography, advertisements, oratory, and collective memory are woven into a much larger conversation about how one culture dominates another, how resistance works, and how these conflicts might express themselves in the smallest gestures of everyday life. Be prepared to write extensive response papers, but Professor Adatto's openness and flexibility allows you to rewrite papers after class, extend the conversation by email, or during office hours.
Professor Adatto is wonderful-- a professor who cares this genuinely about your work and your interests is very rare. One of my favorite classes at Harvard. The response papers are a lot of work, but they make you engage with the material in a way that will ultimately be very valuable to you.
