Libby is a fantastic teacher. This semester was the first time the tutorial was run, so there were some growing pains as the semester wore on. However, the readings were always incredibly interesting, and most of the time the discussion was engaging. With these kinds of classes, however, it really depends on the personalities of the 10 or so students who take the class. That being said, Libby was still incredibly committed to doing what she could to make it a productive and interesting class.
Very interesting subject material; Libby is a great tutorial leader
This was an incredible class with a fantastic instructor, fascinating readings, and great discussions and assignments. This course would be engaging for anyone interested in education or simply in thinking about and applying theory to societal concerns and modern problems. The emphasis on normative questions was complemented very well by empirical considerations. Every reading was interesting and served a clear purpose within that week's topic and the overall structure of the class. I always left class with exciting and challenging new insights from discussion and new issues to grapple with. There was sufficient guidance in the process of planning out the research paper and Libby was incredibly willing to meet and always offered helpful advice.  The workload was manageable and the readings were well-selected and targeted so that they produced fruitful conversations without burdening students with too much reading. This was unquestionably one of the best classes I have taken during college that changed the way I think about and approach many social problems and societal considerations. I recommend this class very highly.
Will completely change the way you think about education, in a way that only you can define
The topics in this course are compelling, interesting, and challenge your thoughts and experiences. I couldn't recommend it more.
Libby is a wonderful teacher! She facilitated wonderful discussions and provided good guidance for the final paper as well as for my thesis.
Unfortunately, this class is probably not going to be offered again (at least not by Libby). But this was a great semester; we read lots of really interesting texts and got to discuss them in a lot of depth. I also very much appreciated not having to pay for books (all the readings were online), and not having useless assignments. We all exchanged drafts and gave feedback on our final papers, which was really helpful for me and I think for everyone.
This is a solid social studies class on exactly what it's advertised to be - Theory in U.S. Education. Emphasis on the THEORY - since Libby is a theorist, I think it would be hard to write a final paper that's not a theory paper. It's all reading and writing reading responses and discussing the readings. Libby is a really great discussion facilitator and just a very kind teacher. Yet I learned a lot from her brief background lectures. The final paper is good if you write about something you are willing to really investigate and research.
For anyone interested in education and its role in a democratic society, this is a fantastic course. Libby is a great teacher and discussion leader and the readings are captivating. Overall a great and deeply rewarding experience.
Great instructor and a fascinating topic. Libby is very helpful and leads really interesting discussions. Come in prepared with some ideas about methods, as this course does not focus on a particular method (eg interviews), but instead helps students with whatever methods they'e working with.
If you are interested in education, take this junior tutorial!! Lots of really interesting readings that are thought-provoking and dig deeper into the theoretical and philosophical components of issues we struggle with in education in the US.
Really great class, very fascinating discussions, learned a ton. More time to delve into material before deciding on a final paper topic would've been very helpful though - I didn't feel like I had learned enough about the subject matter to make an informed decision. Really really terrific course though - TAKE IT
This class is a good way to explore many topics within education. Class discussions are dependent on the students in the course, but Libby does a good job of fostering discussion when things start to slow down, and most of the time people are engaged enough in the topic that that doesn't happen. Even though the short reading responses might sound annoying, I found them to be really helpful for preparing for class discussions. Libby was very supportive in the research process, and meeting with her one-on-one about my project was especially helpful and made me feel a lot better about tackling my research.
