It's very hard. The readings are dense, there's a lot of them, the assignments are challenging, and it's so rough at times. That said, it's a very rewarding class. It challenges you to think critically in a way no other class does. The ideas you learn about are so important and they definitely will shape the way you see the world. I'd recommend this class to anyone with a passion for philosophy and theory. If your interests are more concrete and focused on empirical, real world events I don't think you'd enjoy it as much. Be prepared to put in a lot of work, but the rewards are really great too.
Good class. Tutorial is fabulous; engaging with six people on moral questions is rarely boring. The reading is a lot, however, and the grading can be harsh. Lecture is really dry, and two hours long.
You get as much out of this course as you put in! Do the readings!
Social Studies 10a is one of the most rewarding classes you can take at Harvard. However, it is a ton of reading and lots of writing. Be prepared for that otherwise you are in for a rude awakening. But overall, you get out what you put in.
If by week 4 you are not loving it, seriously consider dropping it. It's really hard to let the opportunity to read these great writers pass but it can really detract from an otherwise enjoyable semester. This may not apply if Kloppenburg is not lecturing or figures out a way to make lecture a more engaging/ informative experience. It also is incredibly variable depending on your tudor so definitely wait to make a judgement call until you meet with him/her.
Social studies is a fraternity with a hazing ritual called Social Studies 10a. This class is a course in dead white men, and women and people of color are merely tokens. Senior course staff are incredibly arrogant and exude condescension. Thankfully, if you have a good tutorial, you may find this course bearable, and in the end I did come away with a basic understanding of the authors we read, and SS10a did significantly improve my writing.
Take it if you are ready to think and are up for a challenge!
Best course taken at Harvard so far. What one dreams of when applying.
Though there were a lot of mixed reactions for this year's social studies course, I absolutely LOVED it!  Thus far in my Harvard career, there has not been a class that I have felt so passionately about.  To be honest, I sometimes dreaded going to lectures but I always arrived to my section class about 1 to 2 hours earlier to prep.  Most definitely, it was due to my lecturer, Angela Maione who really helped her students define social studies for themselves.  Rather than dictating what a certain passage in Marx or Kant meant, she allowed free conversation in section so that we (the students) could grapple with the ideas ourselves and interpret accordingly.  I found myself often referring back to these readings and lessons outside of class and I truly do believe that I have grown as an individual this past semester largely because of SOCST10A.
Lots of readings. I'm at home for winter break and I'm still catching up on my social studies readings.Also my section leader was a communist
Planning to concentrate in Social Studies? Enjoy perusing the thoughts of wealthy, white males who have been dead for centuries? Ever find yourself unable to sleep at night  because you feel like Harvard classes just don't assign enough reading? If you answered yes to any of the above questions, my friend, then Social Studies 10a is the class for you. Otherwise, grab a Snickers.
This class totally depends on your section--I had David who was absolutely mind-blowing and fantastic, but he's leaving next year.  If you're even thinking about social studies, definitely take this class as (at worst) it gives you necessary background&it is required and (at best) it is truly transformative
Even if you're a little unsure about what social theory is or whether you'll enjoy it, take this class. It will get you to clearly think about some of the normative social questions you've probably had but never really knew how to address. It explains why politics, economics, and history matter to the individual, and to a collective of individuals. Do the readings, and reach out to your tutorial leader when you're unclear about something or just want to talk.
I am a huge proponent of Social Studies as a concentration, and if you are intrigued by the concentration absolutely take Soc10 (I know quite a few people who regret not taking it). It is challenging and a substantial workload, but not impossible. And, if you put the work in, it can be quite rewarding. Sections are atypically good due to the high caliber of instructors and fellow students in the class.
rewarding but very time-heavy
If you are expecting an overall introduction to social theory as a discipline, you will not get that from this class.  This class will give you an excellent introduction to Western philosophy and post-Enlightenment thought in Europe and America, but it does not engage with any traditions outside of the West.  This class should be renamed Intro to Western Thought.  Kloppenberg is excellent at what he does, although I hope future iterations of the class introduces more non-Western perspectives.  Syllabus is subject to change from semester to semester so be sure to check that.
This class is everything I wanted out of Harvard. We read important thinkers and discuss them in class. Kloppenberg gives engaging lectures, but expects you to come to class having done the reading. A LOT of reading.
This course is amazing! It may change your life. Section in particular was such a highlight.
I thought this class would be more exciting, but it isn't that intellectually exciting or engaging. Lecture is basically a waste of my time- the lectures are not very helpful. But its worth the struggle tp read all the texts for this class- it really helped me to understand the theoretical foundations of the actions we take in our everyday lives. It is a lot to reading and Kloppenberg's code-calling made me scared most of the time. But the section part of the class is still decent.
You get out of it what you put in.
This is an excellent course! While it is time-intensive and difficult, you gain a great understanding of all the philosophers that are covered. Tutorial really allows you to explore the material and think about how different philosophers would respond to one another on various issues. Lecture can be a bit too history-focused and dry.
I ended up declaring Social Studies because of this class. It is a great class. I personally enjoyed lectures even though I know some people did not and it is really really long. The tutorials are all really different in terms of content and dynamic, but I enjoyed mine even though I did not feel that it was very substantive. I wish there was a better way to thread together all of the readings we do in this class, because there is a lot.
This class is amazing for social studies concentrators and non-social studies concentrators alike. It has changed the way I view the world and questioned a lot of ideas I held to be true. If you're on the fence about social studies or social studies 10, take a gen ed your freshman spring to exposure yourself to theory - SS10 can be pretty intimidating but if you have dealt with social and political theorists to any degree, you'll do great in this course. If not, the teaching staff are fabulous and will help you every step of the way.
You should be comfortable with a lot of reading every week.
Obviously if you want to be a social studies major take this course. Besides that, do not.
If you are interested at all in social or political theory, take this class. It will be challenging and perhaps intimidating, but well worth the effort.
It is extremely difficult
If you are willing to do the many and long readings in this course, it will certainly be to your benefit as you will learn a lot!
This is a fantastic class that will really aid you in developing your own opinions about the world. It is a very challenging class and be prepared to read and write a lot. Nonetheless, I would definitely recommend it and I personally found it very rewarding.
Great reading list. This course will challenge you in terms of quantity of reading and depth of discussion, but it's well worth the effort.
If you want to learn how to think, to argue, and to write at this school this is the concentration that will get you to the next level.
course will change your life and change the way you think. but this class is not for everyone. grading will be very tough, and you will be expected to work very hard, even to reach "section BS-ing" levels.
Social Studies 10a with Peter is a great experience. The syllabus is incredibly interesting and thought provoking, and I walked away from most classes feeling like my perception of Western social theory has been altered. The guided nature of the readings, while leaving plenty of opportunity for you to develop your own ideas, enables you to feel like you're getting to the essence of the author's argumentation. Peter is a great tutorial leader, and the paper prompts are always interesting. I highly recommend this class, which has made me feel like I've grown both as a thinker and a citizen.
It will challenge you. Your thinking is turned upside down sometimes. The lectures are pretty boring. But you will come out of it with a lot of knowledge.
This class is a very good introduction to social, political, and economic theory and helped me to become more comfortable with challenging texts. I also felt that I had the opportunity to develop my writing skills a good deal in this class. Tutorial is an extremely engaging aspect of this class and is a highlight. If you are interested in Social Studies, this course will give you a greater understanding of what the department is about.
Social Studies 10a is a great class. Tutorial discussions are incredible and you will grow as a reader and a writer in this class. It's important to do the readings (especially for ones you want to write papers on), so this class is definitely a big commitment.
This is a challenging class, but one that is truly the ultimate liberal arts course. I gained so much perspective from this class which I believe I will take with me beyond university, and I think much of the material is very important to learn whilst at college.
This is a great class to learn your intro social theory. While I wouldn't necessarily recommend concentrating, you'll learn a lot through these texts and you'll be challenged and forced to do some serious thinking,
If you want exposure to all the questions you've always pondered but never answered, take this class. You won't necessarily answer them, but you will be much better equipped to discuss them.
This class is awesome!! It strongly depends on your tutors, but they're all pretty great so you're looking at excellent options with slightly different styles. Get to know your tutors, talk to them about your ideas, and do the reading! But skim and skim strongly. Its impossible to do all the reading, don't let that prevent you from trying to get a good idea of each text.
This class will probably be the one you spend the most time on  the readings are long, difficult, and you have to do them because sections are small and Kloppenberg cold calls in lecture for the first half of the semester (it also would probably be really hard to write the essays if you didn't). However it is super rewarding, sections discussions were some of the best I've had in college, and I loved wrestling with ideas in the essays even if it was really hard.
Most of you taking this course will be doing so because you have to, not because you want to. However, it's not as scary as some people make out. Lots of interesting readings and discussions and name dropping Kant and Rousseau to your friends will make you feel like you're really living the intellectual Harvard student life. If social theory isn't your interest though, don't let it put you off the rest of Social Studies.
Take this course if you're willing to work hard.
Great course, interesting reading that I think everyone should read in their lifetime. That being said you have to be invested. Lots of reading and you for the most part need to stay on top of it. Don't love how much your section tf dictates your experience in this course.
i.	If you are considering concentrating in Social Studies, you obviously have to take this class, but dont be put off by the fact that it is mandatory. Essentially this is a great books class for works of political philosophy, and you will be glad to have read these seminal texts for the rest of your life. That being said, there need to be significant improvements to the way the class is structured. The department is proud of how much autonomy they give their tutors, but in reality, this just means the experience of taking the class is not standardized, and you can end up having either a terrible semester or great semester depending on who your tutor is. Obviously, there is a lot of reading, and papers are fair, but the grading and tutorial experience vary greatly, which is a bit discouraging, and also makes it hard to create a sense of community amongst the students, which the SS department states that they prioritize. Prof Kloppenbergs lectures were heavy on the history of ideas and not so much about actually explaining ideas (which makes sense given his field), but this made a lot of students dislike lecture (especially the cold calling aspect, which was abandoned mid-way through the semester, but still prevented a lot of students from ever feeling comfortable in the course).
Just be ready to read a lot and you have to be prepared to speak out in section.
You need to be able to the do the large amount of reading for this class. If you're not going to read the books, don't take it. You'll just be miserable and not get much out of the class.
Professor Kloppenberg's lectures situate each thinker in their particular historical context and give you an overview of their important contributions to social theory, all with his characteristically expert care.  This is as good an introduction as any to a short list of big names (Rousseau, Smith, Marx, Mill, &c.) that anyone with a college education should know.
Lectures can be a bore, but the tutorials are extremely thought-provoking and engaging discussions!
Take this course if you want an overview of social theory and want to read some canonical texts. However, since they seem to be changing up the readings, some founding fathers/other non-social theory texts have been seeping into the curriculum. Also, your experience is heavily dependent on which section leader you get (which you can't choose).
The tutors/staff are great, and social studies attracts some amazing students. But beware if you are expecting 'life-changing' discussions from the class. Professor Kloppenberg is a historian who teaches the course as an intellectual history course. If you are more interested in political or social theory, you might be frustrated when The Social Contract is discussed more as a key to the French Revolution than as a text with important theoretical contributions to understanding the nature of a just state. You also might find that the mammoth reading assignments do more harm than good in making discussions more into sweeping SparkNotes style surveys than critical thinking about difficult problems. Assigning hundreds of pages of difficult theory can show enormous respect for students, or it can indicate a lack of respect towards certain authors -- you'll have to decide which one of these things holds for you.If you care more about empirical/field work, you might be out of luck anyways, since this section of the course is all philosophy and theory. On the other hand, the intellectual identity crisis that is this class is really excellent in helping you narrow your own interests, as you'll be able to find which topics and authors speak to you, which bore you, and which frustrate you. In sum, you will probably gain the most in this course if you recognize it for what it is: a big survey class which might not always inspire you, but which can still have some interesting moments.
It's definitely heavy reading. If you're not into the 18th/ 19th century, and have problems with the whiteness and maleness of the canon, it may be helpful to consider how Kant influenced MLK, Hegel influenced Fanon, and so on.
This course challenged my mental power and some of my beliefs in ways that no other course at Harvard has. Be prepared to put in a lot of work and run into frustration, but the conversation and the ideas that flow from it are well worth the effort.
I don't regret the course. I am very happy I chose to concentrate in Social Studies.
This is a great class to expand your knowledge of social and political thinking.  Although the workload is heavy and often unmanageable, you won't regret committing to the course because the material is very interesting.  Also can make you just sound like a smarter person by being able to talk about philosophic and ideologic stuff.
This class is a lot more manageable than I thought it would be going in. If you don't do the reading you won't get anything out of the class (so you should do the readings), but you will be able to do decently well. However, the weeks when I really committed to the readings I found interesting and meaningful to think about beyond class.
It's a lot of reading but it's very valuable reading. Section makes the course worth it and lecture is kind of horrible but you have to go prepared because the professor cold calls.
The readings of the course are really engaging, yet the lectures are in contrast not very interesting. Either the duration should be shortened or the lecture needs to be supported with audio-visual materials.
Don't take this if you don't like reading classes. Each tutorial has a completely different experience and will make or break the course, so decide early on based on your tutor if you want to stay. Lecture is imposing, but asking less impressive questions is overall more helpful for everyone.
If you are taking this class to get a theory background like I did, DO NOT DO IT- you won't even get a gen ed and you'll realize this class is eating up your life. This was literally THE WORST class I have EVER taken not only at HARVARD but in MY WHOLE LIFE. I have no idea WHY ON EARTH the social studies department wants to market itself as "ELITE" or "THE BEST" department at Harvard through intimidation. The cold calling during lectures honestly made not only me, but many of my peers very uncomfortable. One experience I recall was when I was brushing up on readings before lecture and I heard a girl cry. Another experience I had was hearing a girl hyperventilate before lecture and say "oh my God, I need to take a shot before going into this class." Thirdly, I remember a specific time Professor Kloppenberg called on a girl in class and she said "I am sorry, but I got a concussion and was unable to complete the readings and therefore cannot answer your question." The next girl he called on then said "I'm sorry, but I just added this class and did not know there were readings assigned." Professor Kloppenberg scoffed and said, "A better excuse would be to pretend you got a concussion at cheer practice." He proceeded to single this second girl out and emailed her over the weekend, telling her that she would be called on in the next lecture. It was completely out of line. I am sorry, but to be honest I had to make use of Harvard's mental health resources as a result of this course. I love Harvard, I love most of my classes, and love being challenged academically. However, this class made me doubt why I am even here and why I am alive- I have never cried at Harvard because of a class, but this class made me cry almost every Monday night before lecture. I remember the first day, I asked if there was a possibility of being put into a river section because I had a class that I really wanted to take from 1-2 PM on Thursdays, and since my section would be in the quad, I was worried that I would have to sacrifice class time to make it on time. The man scoffed and said, "it is not my problem that you cannot walk to the quad in 20 minutes or less." I'm sorry, but even Google maps says it takes at least 15 minutes. This just set the tone for my feelings towards the rest of the class. Worst of all, I wanted to make this class pass/fail because I realized I was definitely not a social studies concentrator. I was denied this, even if it was before the deadline, because "no one has ever done that before." You know what, there was a time when "no one had ever admitted a black student" before or "no one had ever admitted a woman" before. And if you still think about doing that today, you'd be called a bigot.
This can be a very transformative course if you put effort into it. The tutorial is a great feature of the class; it gives you a chance to discuss the readings in depth with a small group. It's the kind of course I was hoping to find at Harvard.
Be prepared for a lot outdated perspectives and try to look past that to see the important positives and influential implications on society today
Do the reading even if you feel like you don't have to.  It's worth it.
lot of work, but interesting and important
Get into a good section, don't get behind in the reading.
it covers A LOT of interesting material, but the sheer volume of material sometimes takes away from the depth in which we cover each theorist. the class is interesting but feels rushed.
Must be able to read well to get a lot out of it.
This class was an epic introduction to social theory that provided one of the best educations I've received from any one class at Harvard. Its hard to explain, but when you complete this class, you simply feel more educated in a whole new way.
It is a lot of work but very interesting and rewarding in the end.
this is a rigorous course but a rewarding one - i would take it even if you're just considering social studies - it's great to be able to take it now without being in the concentration
This class pushes you to think about deep questions of human behavior and stretches your mind with its demanding reading list and paper topics. Even if you're not a Social Studies concentrator, you would gain a whole new perspective on the world by taking it.
It's a lot of work but it's worth it.
All of the readings are definitely worth your time.
Fascinating - packed with ideas.
Do the reading! It will pay off in the end.
good amount of reading and some of it may be boring but it's the canon and provokes great discussion and some real questions about the world
that it kicks your butt, but that it's worth it.
It is a phenomenal course, but you will push yourself. This course is capable of taking a student beyond their potential.
I would recommend this course to students who are willing to put in a lot of work and thought. It is a challenging course that requires a lot of time to develop and understand ideas. It's a good class to take even if you aren't going to concentrate in social studies.
Be prepared to work hard and learn a lot.  The papers are tough, but the feedback you get on them is invaluable in terms of becoming a better writer and thinker.
do your reading, get the most out of it
For anyone with an interest to the evolution of modern society and economic history, this course is a wonderful place to start. The form of discussion really helps to shape your own opinions.
It is a lot of work, but it is a really good class.
I would tell future students that if they are willing to work hard, this course can be rewarding and helpful in sharpening analytical and writing skills. I would suggest that a willingness to work hard and sufficient time in one's schedule are necessary, however.
Difficult but worth it
Take this class if you feel like drowning in readings that you don't understand. However, it's kid of rewarding at the end. (???)
I would recommend it to anyone considering social studies as a concentration, or has any interest in social theory or the political thought of economics. I would also recommend this class to anyone who has wanted to read the "great books" (Smith, Hobbes, etc.) but would not have the motivation independently.
changes the way you think.  highly recommend, but a great deal of work
This class will change the way you think about the world. It will challenge you intellectually in ways you might never have been challenged before, to think critically about difficult texts and to formulate your own theories.
Social Studies 10 is where you discuss the big ideas about how we are living our lives and where you can question whether we're doing right or wrong or whether the ideas of the past were more right. You learn social theory and how to apply it, make close friends, meet amazing people (your section leaders), and discuss important topics with people who care about them. It is a lot of work--you definitely have to be ready to read difficult philosophical texts and try to internalize these people's thoughts, but you feel accomplished and knowledgable after you have.
Proceed with caution in the sense that you must be prepared to put in the work to benefit from it.  No one is going to hand you the information you need to grow as a student. This course demands that learning take place in the wee hours of the night when you are along with Marx reading over him for the fourth time.  There are no spark notes, there are no course summary packets.  It is you and thousands of pages of reading and a great opportunity to grow.
If you're taking this class, you want to be in social studies. If you want to be in social studies, all is right with you. Carry on!
With the caveat that you have to really like it.  It's a lot of work, but if you slog through it's worth it.  They expect a lot but give a lot back--I feel as though I've matured intellectually a great deal, and have a much better grasp of the width and breath of some of the most major branches of human thought in the past 300 years or so.  It is a class which you will either hate or love.
That unless they really dislike reading social theory and political economy, social studies 10 is a great survey course for western thought since the enlightenment.
You have to be interested in the material and willing to work hard and do a lot of reading
Recommend with enthusiasm, although with reservations. It's hard and a lot of work. But it should be very rewarding.
The class will stimulate and challenge you; the readings and papers will slowly crush you.
Do work.
Manage your time well; work hard on the essays.
It's a lot of work, but the most rewarding class I have ever taken. It changed the way I think and will inform my participation in ever social science class I take in the future.
Obviously, students who are interested in concentrating in social studies should take this course. But, also, it would be good for anyone who wants a comprehensive introduction to "great thinkers" and social theory in general.
Social Studies 10 was a fantastic introduction to social theory and the fundamental texts of Western political thought.  Lectures can actually be quite captivating but play second fiddle to the sections, where I delved into the texts and debated with my group of eight every week.
Take this class and be ready to have your mind blown.
You'll get a lot more out of the course if you do the reading.
I would definitely come into this course ready to work hard but also to open your mind to a whole different way of thinking.  I would suggest taking a lighter course load while taking it as I definitely ended up putting far more time into it than any other course.  It is profoundly interesting material and truly is a great minds class.  When else are you going to get the chance to delve into such superstars like Marx, Smith, and Mill?  It makes you feel very learned and cultures as these thinkers have had a monumental effect on society.
This class is fascinating, especially if you are at all interested in the social sciences. It has fantastic lectures. I can only speak for my own section, but I look forward to it every week, and it flies by. We have engaging discussions. It has been my favorite class at Harvard so far. However, it might depend on which section one is assigned.
It is not a complete social theory course. It emphasizes more on commercial society and is like a economic history course sometimes.
It may be hard but one of the most rewarding classes at Harvard. worth the time and sweat of long hours of paper writing. Prepares you well for all other social sciences classes at Harvard.
I would only recommend this course to students who are willing to work hard and make this course a priority. I felt as though my other classes suffered as a result of the incredibly large workload of SS10.
I would tell future students that it's a fantastic way to develop your analytical and argumentative skills while learning about different social theorists' view on progress (in the traditional sense). It will truly lead you to question and reconstruct your fundamental beliefs.
This course is excellent, but be prepared to work hard. It contains all the readings you thought you would do in college, but requires a great deal of thought, consideration and preparation. You cannot bullshit your work for this class. The readings are essential.
This class is pretty reading-intensive and it can take a while to get used to the style of writing, but in the end I was glad to have read so many great works and to be in a concentration that really interests me.
This course deals with the "big questions" of society and should be part of any liberal arts education.
If a student lacks a background or an interest in social theory, that doesn't mean that he/she should avoid this course. The readings allow students to question and refine their own understanding of the world, current events, political developments, and human nature.
I think the quality of the course depends way to much on the quality of your TFs.  A more standardized curriculum, normalized across sections might help account for this.
This class requires a lot of work, but it also gives a lot in return. I learned both facts-wise and skills wise, which is a unique combination.
Tough class, try to keep up with reading and be involved in section, you will get a lot more out of it. Tuck is clearly a really smart guy, enjoy his interesting anecdotes and history lessons, and try and stay on top of his points in lecture. You'll enjoy it a lot more.
Social Studies 10 will challenge you and force you to think about some of your most deeply held beliefs more than any other class at Harvard. The class is very much geared towards Social Studies concentrators so I don't know how much I would recommend it to non-concentrators, but then, why wouldn't you concentrate in Social Studies after taking this class??
This is a tough course, but it's also one of the most rewarding classes I've taken at Harvard, and I feel like I've grown a lot as a thinker and a scholar as a result.  If you're interested in social theory or famous dead thinkers, then you should definitely take this course.
Make a study group to split up the readings, otherwise you will probably fall behind.  Also try to meet with your tutor at least once, it will be worth it.
Prioritize portions of each week's reading assignments carefully. Every week, some chapters are very important and others won't ever come up in section unless you choose to write about them.
Be prepared for harsh criticism on your writing
Lectures are generally useless and dull - you're better off spending the two hours actually reading the material than going to lecture, but the discussions in tutorial are generally redeeming. This class really does force you to think more critically about abstract and complex concepts, and will definitely make you a better reader.
Lectures can be a little dry at times, but I think the readings are an important background for anyone who wants to study politics/economics! Also, the tutorial structure is great-- long discussions in really small groups!
This course will make you think and will help you understand some of the big ideas in Western thought about the state and society. Where other courses fell short, this course did a great job of explaining complicated ideas.
If you are even considering concentrating in Social Studies, taking this class is a must. I have heard that Gov 1061 has basically the same readings, so if you're not a Social Studies concentrator you could also look into that. People aren't exaggerating when they say this course has A TON of readings. We had one week each to read all of Tocqueville's Democracy in America (all 700+ pages), and all of The Wealth of Nations (1000 pages or thereabouts). Even when there are fewer pages of reading it's still well over 100 pages and it's dense stuff like Hegel or Kant. This class should be your priority. I had an OK experience in lecture; a few things Tuck said were great and memorable, but most of it didn't contribute to my understanding of the readings at all, and in fact I ended up skipping a few lectures because I didn't find them too engaging. Definitely bring coffee to the lectures. My tutorial experience, however, was phenomenal. If you are in Quincy, you've lucked out because that means you'll probably have Eric. He knows how to get you thinking in ways you probably wouldn't have considered; he knows how to teach us to fish, if you will, not just give us food.
this is by no means an easy class, but is worth the intellectual challenge. a lot of your class experience depends on your section leader (done by house)- your section leader is the one who grades your papers, chooses what kind of work to assign you, etc. so they have a huge role. if you get a good section leader, this is one of the classes that can actually change your way of thinking in a very practical and applicable way
It's a requirement for social studies--so if you are considering the concentration, just take it.  It's not the most engaging lectures on these social thinkers, but it's still solid material.
This class is extremely rigorous and in every way worth it.
This course is very difficult but you will learn a lot and find it rewarding. What is very frustrating is that certain section leaders will be easy graders, certain ones will assign much more additional work, and certain ones will make it VERY difficult to get an A.
Your tutorial experience really determines how you feel about the course. I loved my tutorial and had a great tutorial leader.Lecture is terribly difficult to sit through.......also never seems super applicable to whats going on in tutorial.ALSO DO THE READINGS Because this is a class of students who self-select to take this course because they are the type of students to do their readings; you can't just show up to tutorial without reading
You will definitely get a ton out of this class.  The readings might seem intimidating, but I never really found it necessary to read everything single page every week (although if you do I'm sure you'd learn a lot more).  Also, if you feel confused with any of the material, your tutorial will be insanely helpful in clarifying any difficult concepts of answering any questions you might have.
In order to learn or understand section discussion this course requires a large amount of reading and intellectual understanding of the authors.
Want to learn to read critical and improve your writing? SS10 is the class to take and you will forever be grateful. However, be prepared for a very intense workload and tones of reading every week
The lectures were boring, but the tutorial was good. This class is a lot of dense reading; however, it really got me thinking. I left each tutorial with a lot of thoughts running through my head about questions on what it means to be human and what the purpose of a government is. I felt extremely learned after each tutorial and essay I wrote. It's an interesting class, and I think will provide a good foundation for the rest of my social studies classes.
There is a TON of reading and you have to be prepared for section because of the small tutorial setting. Professor Tuck usually gives his own analyses in lecture and people should be aware that these are not main-stream ideas.
Although the readings in Social Studies 10 are challenging, the discussions I've had in my tutorial have been some of my best at Harvard thus far.
You learn a lot in this class, but it's hard work. The essays are tough, and the reading can be dense. Try to do the readings, but don't be afraid to use summaries for relatively uncontroversial authors like Mill and Tocqueville. Some of the lectures, like Hobbes, Smith and Hegel, were really great and gave me a fairly solid understanding, while others like Kant, Tocqueville, Mill, and Marx II, were more scattered. There was similar variation in quality in tutorial as well.
Unless you are convinced that you want to do social studies, this course's frustrations far outweigh its benefits. It really made me question choosing social studies as a major and in combination with the amount of work required, the frustrating and often unclear expectations for assignments, and Tuck's extremely dull and often useless lectures, its just not the great course its cracked up to be or that the social studies department is weirdly and stupidly convinced that it is. On the plus side, it is a great opportunity to read the canon of Western political philosophy and think critically about it, but the way that you read, think and learn about this canon needs to be improved.
A reading list of authors who all educated individuals should have read at some point. Three essays is not a lot of work. Tuck's way of thinking is also quite ingenious at times, and if you are able to pay attention then you will learn a lot from him. The tutorial system is also great and helps you understand the texts at a deeper level than the ordinary lecture-section setup. Go ahead, take it.
This is the sort of class I want to take over and over again. Close readings of incredible authors and discussions among a small number of engaged students about important ideas... not sure how much better you can get. That said, it is a large amount of reading, so be prepared for that. Also, Tuck is an incredibly boring lecturer with idiosyncratic views of many authors that are just not shared by most experts. He seems like a really smart guy, but I got very little out of lecture, especially in comparison to my take aways from tutorial. Also, tutorial experience is very dependent on who leads yours; I happened to get an excellent tutor, so my experience was fantastic.
I learned a lot in SS10a. In fact, I'd say it changed the way I see and think about the world. But to be honest, I really didn't enjoy the course much until the very end when we started Marx. Also, be prepared to either be dedicating huge amounts of time to the readings, or to be doing a lot of skimming.
Social Studies 10A is a lot of reading, but it is extremely interesting. It is a great course for people interested in political, economic, and social theory, and I think it provides the basis for a lot of aspects of modern-day society, making it important to the real world.
I originally considered taking this class because it's such a great approach to reading so many important thinkers. Be prepared to do plenty of dense reading if you want to get anything out of the class. Lecture is 'supplementary,' so you really don't need to know what is said in lecture, but I think it frames each thinker really well. My tutorial was awesome, made me think so much in such critical ways.
This class is challenging and requires a lot of time. However, it is also one of the most rewarding courses.
This class is certainly difficult. Be prepared to spend a large portion of your week reading and writing papers. However, the class covers its authors quite well and definitely improves critical thinking skills.
Social Studies 10a is very challenging, but worth it. Personally, I found the lectures to be very disorganized and boring, but I absolutely adored my tutorial. The discussions we had during tutorial were extremely thought-provoking and enjoyable. The material is extremely interesting, albeit dense and difficult to get through. This course will improve your reading, writing, and critical thinking skills and is a great course to get a good grasp on modern Western philosophy. However, it is important to note that the course only focuses on Western philosophers (all old, white men), something that I think should definitely be changed for the future.
Two things will influence your experience in this course. 1) The extent to which you attentively do the readings. Even if your section experience is not that great, just doing the readings and coming to your own conclusions about what the texts mean is valuable. 2) Your tutorial leader. The reports about the quality of tutorial leaders run the GAMUT from life-changing to "get me out of this class immediately." I personally was unmotivated, at times, to do the readings because I felt like my tutorial did not build on the themes presented in the readings in a way that enhanced my understanding. It felt rather hare-brained and unguided, although, when you do put in the time, the papers can be a great way to build upon the things that you enjoyed in the readings. That being said, this requires that you do the readings which means that you've got to be ready to commit a decent amount of time to them. If you're not passionate about social theory, and don't have the best section leader, this can seem like a huge time investment for a very small reward; indeed, this was how I felt, particularly because Professor Tuck's lecturing style is dry and suited to an audience more advanced in their knowledge of social theory. It's also hard to see how this applies to the "real world" questions that social studies prides itself on examining. Tl;dr--put in the time, hope you get a good tutorial leader, and push your tutorial leader to explore how this could apply to an area of your interest.
If you're going to do Social Studies, you're going to have to take this course. The good news: the readings are great, and you'll learn a ton from tutorial discussions and essays. The bad news: the lectures are excruciatingly boring. Luckily lecture attendance isn't required or particularly necessary
I imagine that this course will be a highlight of my time at Harvard. I feel that I now have a great foundation for critically reading and thinking, which will serve me well both for my future studies and otherwise. Be warned, though, the amount of reading is intense.
I took this course as an elective, not for Social Studies, and I was pretty satisfied.  The readings are rewarding but are very difficult to complete unless you give this course priority over others, which was a hard choice to make when not concentrating in Social Studies.  As such, it was also hard to feel like I got everything I could out of the readings.  For others who want to take this class as an elective, I would recommend that you be prepared to devote a lot of time an energy to the course to make it worth your while.
Social Studies 10a requires a lot of time and effort, but you will be a better student for having taken it.
Take this course if you are both passionate about social theory and willing for it to be one of your biggest time commitments this semester.
This course will open your eyes to a completely new way of thinking, reading, writing, and viewing the world. Sure, it's difficult - the readings are daunting, though I would recommend doing your very best to read them in their entirety at the beginning of every week (you'll regret it later if you don't) - but the rewards are endless and the knowledge and relationships you gain may end up revolutionizing your Harvard experience.
This class is unbelievably tough. This being said, it is unbelievably rewarding. If you're interested, DEFINITELY take it.
I wouldn't take this course unless you are either planning on concentrating in social studies or have a deep passion for social theory. While some of the works are interesting and not too challenging, many of them are so dense it is impossible to understand what they are saying without extensive Google research. It is a hard class but I think it will be worth it as I continue to take other theory-based classes.
Do the reading.
It's a great introduction to early modern political and social theory. Professor Tuck's lectures may not be everyone's favorite, but he knows the history of the entire period that spans from Hobbes to Marx like he lived through it personally. The authors and their ideas are thus in turn presented in historical context and engaged in dialogue with one another. Loved the history bit.  The French Revolution definitely was a constant theme.
The section component of this course was incredible and truly an experience accessibly only at an intuition like Harvard. I have never learned from my peers like I did in Social Studies, and although I ultimately chose not to concentrate in SS I have absolutely no regrets about taking this course.
It has inspired me to concentrate in Social Studies.
Even if you're not taking social studies, this course is a must-take at Harvard, not because it'll make you a more "educated" person or because it'll prepare you for other theory courses, but because you'll get to think with some of the world's greatest minds about what life is, what living together with other human beings is, and who you are. The reading list (albeit too white, too dead, and too male -- which Tuck himself, in my opinion, does not have a good explanation for) is incredible, and things that you'll want to read anyway before you graduate college.
This class was so mediocre. In the end I think I enjoyed it somewhat because discussion in tutorial was for the most part fruitful, but Tuck's lectures were absolutely abysmal. They often had nothing to do with the specific texts we read and he would just stand up there and rattle off insignificant biographical information for nearly 45 minutes before saying anything substantial.
If you are struggling in this course, reach out to your preceptor early. Also, don't let SS10a deter you from pursuing social studies as a concentration. As hard as it is now, it will be worth it in the long run.
Well, you have to take it, and you can't really choose your tutorial leader... Good experience overall, though.
Read the books over the summer or something. GradeSaver/Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy/WIKIPEDIA are actual lifesavers.
Be ready to put in a lot of work in the readings. They are extremely long and extremely challenging, but they're very rewarding as well. Tuck is not the most engaging lecturer, but I still found lectures to be quite strong overall. I also really enjoyed the tutorial setting because it forced me to critically engage with the authors on a regular basis.
Completely dependent upon section leader.
This class provides a fantastic framework for analyzing social problems. It made me aware of ideas embedded so deeply in mainstream western ideology that they appear as commonsensical or unconscious. In making such foundational assumptions explicit, such as in Hobbes that people will protect their life before all else, or as in Kant that reason is a mechanism upon which all morality rests, social theory opens up new questions and new directions. A new sense of autonomy is taken on by the student in asking questions about what is good in society. I this sense, this course provides a historical and theoretical framework that makes problem solving for social issues possible.
Only for people who do not mind reading multiple pages of Kant.
It's a requirement, but the works of political theory that you read really are amazing. They're thought-provoking, challenging, engrossing, and at times incomprehensible, but you finish the course feeling enriched and grateful that you've read (or mostly read) some of the great works of Western thought. You have to sit through the lectures to get to your tutorials, but the experience overall is mostly enjoyable, and definitely not torturous.
Social Studies 10 is a very challenging requirement, particularly if you are not familiar with the authors and texts read in the course.  However, it is a very rewarding class. Lectures, for the most part, are tolerable.  Professor Tuck is very knowledgeable and his presentations are easy to follow.  Lectures do tend to drag.  Your enjoyment of section largely depends on your section leader.  Mine was really, really great, so section was very rewarding and intellectually challenging.  Great course overall.
Very time intensive course. Lots and lots of dense reading that is often difficult to understand. Tuck's lectures are dry, but it is very interesting material.Section experiences can be very different. I think it is just a course to get through for the social studies concentration.
Probably the best course you'll take at Harvard, if you're willing to put in the work necessary to get something out of it. Lectures are absolutely phenomenal: Tuck's readings of the texts are unconventional but incredibly insightful. By the end of the course, you will indeed, as a past reviewer put it, literally think better thoughts. The course is excellent for political theorists, and for empiricists who aren't enrolled merely because it's required of concentrators. On the other hand, tutorial might be just another gruesome Harvard undergraduate section if your tutorial leader isn't a good match for the course, and many students will coast through the course without doing very much work.
You'll never regret taking this course. Is it a lot of reading? Yes. But the papers aren't that difficult, and by the end of it you'll have a more impressive knowledge base than any of social science major does. (Repeat: Take course, become smarter than if you didn't.)
Even if its not for your concentration, useful and interesting course to take
Lectures are boring and useless. Tuck is a very dry lecturer, and he mainly talks about the stuff that can be looked up on Wikipedia. Moreover, the lectures needs not be 2 hours long; i think this unnecessarily makes the lecture experience less pleasing, and he just drags on. The lecture seems very unorganized, and the sections are very different from one another. Some sections had it easy (classes cancelled, easier paper topics) and other had so much more work.
The readings are arduous and confusing, but the course is very rewarding. Come to the lectures, and if you've never written a philosophy paper before, leave enough time to get feedback or to use the Writing Center in your writing process. If you're on the fence about becoming a SS concentrator, take it anyway, because these are the kind of readings that should be a part of everyone's collegiate experience.
Probably one of the best academic experiences I have had at Harvard. Social Studies 10 is a wonderful class with a fantastic teaching staff. My classmates in tutorial were all extremely intelligent people, and deeply engaged with the texts. It was great to discuss with them and our tutorial leader. Social Studies 10 is also a difficult class. The readings will take up many, many hours, and so will the papers.
The readings are very long and time consuming, but if you have a good tutor then you will gain a very thorough understanding of all the authors. You will come out of this course with a lot of knowledge and useful skills (critical reading, analysis, and presenting dense information effectively in writing).
It can be tough to get through all the readings, but the discussions are very interesting.
Social studies 10 is perhaps one of the most important courses on Harvard's campus. I will give you a rigorous introduction to the field of social theory and the lectures are fantastic as well. Do not take not during lecture, simply absorb the material, however difficult to follow Tuck oftentimes proves to be.
The tutorial portion of this class was amazing. The lectures are hard to understand and sometimes made the class more difficult rather than more clear.
This course is a must-take at Harvard!
Take this class if you want to be able to think about any problem with clarity.  Don't take this class if you can't force yourself to read up to 2 hours of sometimes impenetrable philosophy every day.
This class will change how you view the world. Though it is hard (and may "kill" your GPA) you will not regret taking this class. If you thought you had a warped view of "reality" before taking this course, once you take SS10, your mind will be even more blown than it was. However, going in, know that this course is hard. You've probably heard that the readings are intense and long  you heard correctly. However, it is all worth it, though it won't seem like it on Wednesday nights. Take this course! Final note: if you aren't a Social Studies concentrator, 10a is not a good "fifth class" in any sense of the word. Go SS10!
This was my favorite class at Harvard so far. Professor Tuck is a fantastic and incisive lecturer, and my tutorial leader Katie Gallagher was incredible. That being said, it's tough. Lots of reading, though I enjoyed it.
Social Studies 10a is not indicative of what the concentration actually entails. Stick it through, wait for 10b with more interesting material, and you'll be glad you did!
Take this class if you're a deeper-than-the-surface thinker. If you're unsatisfied with the paraphrasing of philosophy that happens in everyday life, read these intellectual giants and see what they ACTUALLY said. You will be a more complete person from it, and it might even challenge some of your deepest held convictions. I came away from it with a new conception of morality, which is one of the most important things I've learned here so far.
Obviously, if you're going to be in Social Studies, you have to take this course. I ended up choosing Government for reasons both related and unrelated to the tutorial. You should dive into this class and do all the readings fully, it will help you truly decide what you want to do.
If you are interested in concentrating in Social Studies, then you will obviously need to take this course. Overall, it is a good experience. Just realize that you will have a lot of work. It will likely dominate your academic schedule.
This is one of the most challenging and rewarding classes I have taken at Harvard thus far. The readings are often frustrating and difficult, but the conversations in section made it absolutely worth it. It is a really wonderful course and balances  breadth and depth in ways that many Harvard courses fail to achieve.
I was at first skeptical about how well I would do in a class primarily concerned with political theories; Social Studies 10, however, placed me in an environment in which I wasn't afraid to learn things from scratch. This is not to say that the course was not challenging--on the contrary, it was very challenging, given the volume of reading and level of analysis required--but even when I was standing on shaky ground, I felt very supported by my peers and my tutor. Don't be overwhelmed by how much reading is assigned, or how amazingly prepared all of your peers sound...as long as you maintain your dedication to the course and come in with a willingness to put in some hard work and learn, you will excel!
I think this is one of those courses one needs to take regardless of his or her concentration. Reading Hobbes to Marx, Durkheim to Arendt is intellectually very important and every Harvard student should graduate with the knowledge SocStu 10 provides him or her with.
This is a great class for anyone intending to concentrate in social studies (it's required...), as well as anyone looking for a foundational survey of some of the most well-known Western social theorists. Depending on which Tutorial you are put in, this class provides a great opportunity to thoroughly understand and digest the theories.
I would not take social studies 10 if I was not willing to do all the reading. This course becomes much more rewarding if one does the reading, and this was obvious on a lecture by lecture basis.
Social Studies 10 is a bit of an odd duck among courses at Harvard. I can guarantee that at least half of the course will be quite good: Tuck is an engaging and exceedingly well-read lecturer with a real passion for teaching the material--and teaching undergraduates. (Word of advice: Do the reading, or as much of it as possible, before coming to lecture. Since lectures are a discussion rather than a summary of the readings, knowing the text is usually an important part of understanding the lecture.) Tutorial, on the other hand, can be quite variable. If you have a good tutorial leader, this course will be an incredibly enriching experience; if not, then you'll have a good lecture course with a regrettably long weekly section.
Extremely difficult to keep up with reading and fully understand all relevant concepts.
This class was a struggle, but I'm so, so glad I took it. I had taken a few reading- and essay-intensive classes before, but I had never before engaged with the material as deeply or thoroughly as I did in Social Studies 10. This is not one of those classes where you can skip/skim the readings or look up brief summaries the night before, because the depth of class discussions will reveal all lack of understanding in a heartbeat. Instead, take this class if you are willing to spend long nights immersing yourself in beautifully written and logically complex masterpieces; take this class if you're not afraid to do it just to DO it, rather than treating it as a means to an end. If you truly devote yourself to it, this class will enlighten you and make every other humanities class you've taken pale in comparison.
This is the best class that I have taken at Harvard so far.  I am really looking forward to taking 10b next semester.  The lectures are nothing special, but the tutorial was absolutely mind-blowing.  I have definitely learned more in this course than in any other.  Because participation is worth so much of your grade, it is really essential to keep up with all of the readings and participate in tutorial.  It really makes you get so much out of the course.  There is a lot of reading, and it is very dense at times.  I think that everyone at Harvard should have to take this course.
If you hate the course, treat it as a means to an end (the concentration).  Otherwise, I found it to be a difficult course addressing difficult topics.  (I'm not sure I would be comfortable with an easy philosophy course--it means we're not being challenged).
This course is really interesting, but you get a lot more out of it if you put more into it. Try to figure out what the section leader is interested in to make sure you can participate in section -- the lectures are interesting, but section is the real part of the class.Also, Tuck tends to go on digressions in lecture. I personally like them a lot, but I've also heard that if you miss a connection then you will get lost.
This class was a huge disappointment. I was excited to take it at the beginning of the semester, for I'd heard many good things about it. However, I found the material tedious and often too-far removed from daily life. You read many of the most famous philosophers/social theorists, which is an interesting experience, but lecture is incredibly dry, and section can often be unrewarding. If you are looking for a class that will give you many different perspectives, I would not recommend this class. It seemed more like professors and TFs pushing their agendas than it was about using the material to make ourselves more informed individuals and consider the many possible interpretations of them to apply them to our lives.
This class is what you make of it. The more effort you put in to understanding the concepts, the more engaging section discussions will be and the more you can take away from each discussion. Don't feel you have to read every sentence of each reading, this class has also taught me how to skim efficiently. Also, don't feel like reading Sparknotes or encyclopedia entries on the side is a bad thing, they can really help you understand the basics.
This class is a very good one, but I think that the experience depends greatly on tutorial.  i was able to learn a lot and enjoyed my assignments, but have heard of experiences that are different.  It is very important to actually do all the readings, as that is when you are able to get the most out of the course and discussions rather than simply slipping by.
I was kind of disappointed by SS10a.  I thought it would be some mind-blowing experience in which I would learn so much every week.  While I did learn quite a bit, and while I did overall enjoy tutorial a lot, the class was kind of inconsistent.  Some weeks, I didn't feel like I ever actually learned what the essential ideas of a given thinker were - lectures would digress into random trivia and tutorials were spent going back and forth on a few things.  I think the most important thing for a comprehensive intro class like SS10a should do is explain the essentials of the thinker, the ideas, and why they are important/compelling, and some weeks I felt like that just didn't happen.  I did generally like the tutorial, though, and in particular I felt that working on and getting extensive feedback on papers helped me learn a lot.
Challenging reading assignments, but if you have a good section it is all worth it. You will find yourself analyzing movies and books more philosophically and understanding your other coursework differently, in more complex ways.
This class does cover a lot of knowledge that makes you a better scholar, but warning, you will not be able to read everything and most of what you think about this class will be determined by your tutorial leader. Also, this is far closer to a humanities class than a social science class, so if you're looking for social theory to accompany your studies in economics or statistics, you will likely be disappointed, quantitative thinking is not the focus of this class.
I loved reading these works and thinking seriously about them with others. I really benefitted by being able to talk over ideas with others and from having to write about them. I loved the sense of community in my tutorial and feel really lucky to have taken the course.
Social Studies 10a is required for Social Studies, but even if you take it and don't concentrate in Social Studies it's a good course. The exposure to the thinkers we read is unparalleled, and the time in tutorial to talk about them is very engaging. Lectures can be boring but they are really helpful in laying the ground for that week (especially if you haven't really done all the reading yet). Tutorials depend on the people and tutor, but mine is really engaging and my tutor is really good at synthesizing the reading and creating conversation. It's a difficult course because there's a lot of reading that can be difficult to grasp, but it's doable (and required, for some).
If Capitalism for Marx is oppression of the labouring class, Social Studies 10a for me is the oppression of the studying class. Really very well done though, Peter.
Do take this course if you are thinking of a multidisciplinary concentration in social sciences. However, it is very theory-focused and most likely not necessarily very enlightening about all the (non-theory-heavy) prospects of the Social Studies concentration.
Really interesting material, you learn a lot on political and social theory.
Be prepared for extensive reading assignments each week. Not only do you have read a lot, but you have to be prepared to provide great detail from the readings to contribute to your section's discussion. Lot's of work, somewhat difficult, but manageable.
Incredibly difficults, tons of reading, it was a struggle for me, but I think I am going to be grateful for the experience as well as better writing and analytical abilities. HOPEFULLY.
This class is a really great background in Western political and ethical philosophy. It's not as difficult as people say it is. There's more reading than a gen. ed but it's still very doable. This class makes you really question how we as a society should live and how individuals should act. Thinking about that for 14 weeks is an incredible thing.
Very fast-paced course. Lectures are often meandering but section is great.
DEFINITELY do not take this class unless you are a concentrator. Every single person who took it to just be "more intellectual" ended up hating it. Harvard has so much better social theory courses.
Take it
Everyone at Harvard should take this course. It is foundational for all aspects of life and essential to a liberal arts education. This course is very well organized and if you love reading and thinking, you should love this class.
Those interested in theory should be enthusiastic about this course. However, those who are bored or even turned off by theory, be warned; this can be a steep price to pay. If tutorial is to your liking, then the class is very enjoyable; if not, then it can be a struggle.
You pretty much need to read these books to be a well-educated Westerner, so don't complain too much about the reading load.  It's for your own good.
If you are interested in thinking - take this class!
Social Studies 10 is absolutely amazing. I don't even know what to say about it. I guess I should mention that it only suits a subset of people. You have to be willing to work extremely hard, read about 200-250 pages of dense material a week, etc. But you're reading all the greatest works of social science ever written, so it's totally worth it. When else will you have the chance to read Rousseau or Marx in (nearly) its original length and grapple with the sophisticated, deep ideas expressed in it? Social Studies 10 is also wonderful because of the famous tutorial system. If you're into social sciences (economics/gov/sociology etc.) but long for a bigger picture and a good grounding rather than the superficial, very narrow range of stuff taught in courses in the social science departments mentioned, take Social Studies 10.
Social Studies 10 is a challenge, but if you embrace it, you will learn a lot. DO THE READINGS. Really - tutors can tell during tutorial if you don't.
If you're social studies, you don't have a choice. If you want intellectual stimulation, take it, but throw your grade to the wind. You most likely WILL NOT walk away with an A.
This class has a lot of readings. You will learn a lot, but be prepared to put in the effort.
For Social Studies Concentrators, you have to take this... The lectures are pretty dry. There is too much reading assigned...It often dissuades me from even trying to attempt to finish them. I think they could pare it down to the essentials so its less intimidating. (For example we don't need to read ALL of wealth of nations..its two volumes). That said, tutorial is amazing!! It is such a great way to engage with the thinkers, their philosophies, and your fellow students. If you have to take this class, make the most of tutorial!
This course is hard and great. You read texts that as citizens are important to read and cause you to question who you are and why you do what you do and you get to discuss it with engaged peers.
This course take a lot of time and can be very challenging particularly for people with very little experience with theory.
EVERYONE at Harvard should be required to take this class instead of fulfilling culture & belief/A&interpretive Understanding GenEds.... what a shame...
This is a course that can be life-changing if the readings are done and a serious investment of thought and time is given; your tutorial becomes very close and you get to know your future concentration adviser exceptionally well.
This is the best class that I have taken at Harvard so far. If you want to become an educated, thoughtful, well-informed, critical thinker, then take this course. Do not be deterred by the amount of reading. You need the exposure in order to understand the themes. Take advantage of your tutorial leader. Put everything you have into this course, and you will see the world in a different way.
The most valuable component of social studies comes via the small section discussions. I would advise all students taking this course to strategically target their readings so that they can participate to the fullest extent possible in these discussions.
Best class I've taken at Harvard.
Keep up with the readings as much as you can, and keep notes and thoughts for each in a word document somewhere. Lecture is not an introduction to the text - you need to read it first. Lecture is fascinating 60% of the time, and the other 40% dissolves into an pedantic argument only Frazer and Tuck can understand, but that seems to be part of the purpose.
Education by fire is surprisingly effective.
I took this class as an elective and while it wasn't bad or difficult, I think there are better social/political theory classes around for electives, such as Gov 1061. In 10a not all lectures were interesting or helped develop one's thinking about the readings, and I hear the same about tutorials, depending on the tutorial leader.
SS10 provides a unique opportunity at Harvard in introducing a host of great texts to you in a challenging and intimate way. The highlight of this class is definitely the tutorial, which keeps you accountable for the reading, and pushes you to engage with these texts on many levels. It's a lot of reading, but I'd highly recommend it for anyone interested in the humanities!
It's a great primer in the philosophy of the state - regardless of whether or not you want to concentrate in social studies, you'll learn a lot about the history of Western thought in a way that is very applicable to today' world. That being said, it's a lot of reading - sometimes an overwhelming amount - and you have to stay caught up to succeed.
The readings will be long, but great, and the tutorials are amazing.
SS10 is certainly a tough class with lots of reading. Find a technique to manage all the readings and make sure you understand the big ideas coming out of each week. Your essays will likely be best if they rely on close reading of select passages.
If you want to understand how we got to now -- politically, socially, intellectually -- take this course, concentrator or not.
If you don't have a genuine interest in social theory, this class may be difficult to get through.
This class is a ton of reading and a ton of work that goes into the writing component, but it is a remarkable class. Top-notch lectures, great tutorial format, and you get to know the most important works in social thought.
This course has too much reading.  You probably won't get through it all most weeks.  With a section of students who are less well prepared, discussions often flat and tutor has to push students through.
This was one of the best classes I took at Harvard. I loved the readings, the sections, and the deep discussions that were sparked in section and even sometimes in casual conversation with friends.
If you take this class, you must commit to itdo the reading, try your best to understand it, and work hard on your papers.
Lectures and tutorial were both underwhelming. Don't take this unless you're set on social studies, and even then it might convince you to change your mind (it did for me).
Though this class is a requirement for all future Social Studies concentrators, I would recommend it to everyone. It is a great course for those who have little background in philosophy, or even those with more knowledge, because it allows for an enlightening and analytical opportunity unlike anything else I have experienced at Harvard. I can undoubtedly say that this class has changed the way I think and write, and has impacted my intellectual growth tremendously.
It does not achieve its goal effectively in my opinion, which is to be an introductory social theory class.
This class is wonderful. It was by far my most difficult course this semester, but it was extremely rewarding. I became much more comfortable reading, analyzing, and discussing many philosophers and thinkers. The tutorial aspect of this class was what made Social Studies 10a great for me. Even though I loved my tutorial leader, I have heard that tutorials are pretty universally great. The lecture portion, while important, is not so great. I was often very bored during lecture. You can't avoid the reading (and there is a lot of it). If you work hard you will definitely get a lot out of this course. Just make sure you realize that it will likely be a lot of hard work!
Great overview of social sciences--read a lot of important works that I hadn't gotten a chance to look at before. Be prepared for a lot of reading, some of which you will have to do many times to understand--try not to have too many other reading classes in your schedule when you take it
It's rewarding if you do the readings thoroughly. It takes tons of time, but it makes you reevaluate everything.
This course was the best academic experience of my time at Harvard.  I cannot tell you enough just how amazing it will be for you if you are even considering social studies as a concentration.  From lecture to the readings to tutorial, it met all of my expectations and then absolutely blew them away.  TAKE IT!!!
This is an incredibly challenging course, but, if you put the time and work into it, a very rewarding course. Getting through all of the readings each week is very difficult, but the large amount of assigned reading helps to teach you how to prioritize and find the important sections of dense works. I learned a lot through the writing process for SS10a essays, both in tackling challenging works and improving my writing skills. This course is challenging in how it pushes you to grow as a thinker and a writer, but, if you can stick with it regardless of that, you will learn a lot. It really makes you see things from a different point of view (or many different points of view!). Lectures can be somewhat boring or confusing, depending on the topic, but tutorials are the gem of this course during which you get to delve into each week's readings.
If you are not going to concentrate in Social Studies then it's really up to you. It is one of the few courses at Harvard that can be called a great books course. If you are going to major in Social Studies you don't have a choice so have a good attitude about the course!
This course is useful and helpful, but you may at times find that it is not very engaging and not much fun. Lecture is incredibly boring and, for me, was not that helpful in consolidating and expanding my knowledge. That being said, I really enjoyed my tutorial. I learned SO much from readings and discussion, and I know that the things I learned are really going to be useful to me in application as I begin to think about research and thesis writing. This course was difficult, but incredibly rewarding, and I am looking forward to the second semester.
This course is required for Social Studies concentrators, so I'm not sure how much there is to say about it other than that it shouldn't scare people away from the concentration even if the readings can be a bit heavy and the lectures are long at times.
If want to learn how the most important minds in the past 400 years have thought about society, about politics, about humanity, you should definitely take this course. Make sure you have time to read and think about the material; you can get through the course without working that much, but you won't get much out of it. Read for tutorial!
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard so far, largely because of the quality of people in the class and the shared enthusiasm for engaging in the materials. It seems that nobody is here that doesn't want to be here. Try to do readings before lecture because you will get far more out of the experience which can otherwise be somewhat boring.
Take this class if you want to read the greats and treat them with the serious thought they deserve.  Plenty of people will tell you that you don't have to go to lecture, but I would encourage you to go, but not to take notes.  Just soak it in and see where Tuck and Frazer lead your thoughts.  This is a course that demands more than time to get the readings done, but time to sit and think.Tutorial is hit or miss, but if you get lucky you can make great friends with your classmates and tutor moving forward.
The texts are classic and important. Nevertheless, the lectures can be incredibly dry and uninformative. The course can feel, at times, very frustrating. However, the course can be enjoyable rewarding with a good tutorial.
The section component of the class is great, and you learn so much from the readings and the discussion with your tutor and classmates. I have not had as rewarding a section at Harvard as I did in Social Studies 10a. That being said, the lectures, while often intellectually interesting, can be thoroughly unorganized and unclear. Two hours is a long time to analyze dense material, and the lectures do not do so effectively. You should seriously weigh these two experiences before choosing to take the tutorial.
If you are considering Social Studies you should (and are required to) take this course. It obviously has a lot of reading, but all the authors that the course covers are interesting. Lectures can be a bit dull, but tutorials are really enjoyable, both to engage with the texts, ask questions, and debate with peers. The key is just to stay on top of the reading.
This class provides a really good, coherent framework for understanding a lot of the most important ideas in philosophy and the social sciences. It has definitely helped me "pull together" a lot of stuff I read for other classes over the past year and a half. To a large extent, you get out what you put in, so I'd definitely recommend doing as much of the reading as possible, for the sake of conceptual understanding and intellectual growth. It's kind of problematic that all of the authors are white/European men, but I think that if you go into the class realizing that it represents a very particular tradition - and not assuming that you will find 'universal' truths - it will be mostly fine.
Tutorial is great and so academically engaging. You'll feel really accomplished after taking this course. Lecture is boring, but the class overall is worth it.
Make every effort to do as much of the reading as possible because it will really aid you in section and when writing the essays. Go to lecture! People say it's not helpful but simply sitting through 2 hours of political theory being talked at you is a true test of your maturity and intellect and will make you feel like a better person. This is college, man.
The sections are awesome, but lectures are tedious and not very informative.
Do the readings!  Depending on your tutor, you can sometimes get by without reading them, but that would be a huge mistake.
This course is one of the most transformational classes at Harvard. It taught me not on
IZ HARD!
Fantastic class that carries over to most other classes here.
This class is worth taking - if you are contemplating Social Studies as a concentration or even if it just seems fascinating to you.  I took it wanting to do Social Studies but not sure if I would like the theory/philosophy aspect of the concentration.  Luckily I ended up enjoying it.  I have never felt as intellectually challenged as I did in sections for this class.  Sometimes when I left section my head heart because I was thinking so hard - but in a good way.  The lectures are grueling to sit through, and the concentration really should do something about it, because I think it would improve the quality of our understanding of the people we learn about greatly.  However, the sections are so exciting and interesting if you find out you like these kind of discussions that even the lectures become worth it.  The assignments are 3 essays throughout the semester as well as A LOT of reading - some sections have short response papers due each week as well.  It is a lot of work but a big reward.
Be interested in social theory or be a efficient skimmer or both or you will not survive this class. The tutorial makes the class, however. To be honest, it is really a gem at Harvard because it really makes you realize that it was exactly for such conversations and people that you came to this school, something you have a tendency to forget in the large, faceless lecture courses.
There is a ton of reading. Lectures are either really interesting (Frazer) or really boring. Tutorial is really good.
if you're not into theory and are not interested in learning about what the dead white guys wrote, don't take it. Because this is exactly and wholly what this course is about. However, if you are, do not hesitate to take this course. This course will help you learn to synthesize material on your own like no other.
It is a lot of reading, but it is definitely worth it as you will be able to understand some of the most influential ideas of Western philosophical thought.
SS10 is exactly as phenomenal as everyone says it is. You will walk away from the class literally thinking higher-quality thoughts. I kid you not. Watching Richard Tuck lecture is watching a genius at work (sometimes a little too much, inasmuch as sometimes he appears to be making up the analysis of his lectures on the spot), Michael Frazer is similarly phenomenal, and tutorials are awesome. You think about society, humankind, and reality very differently after this class, and it prepares you to go forth and conquer pretty much any other (humanities) subject with ease. In fact, you'll probably end up seeing your other classes through the lens of SS10 authors, and need to fight back the urge to deploy Marx or Kant of whoever in your other papers. Sometimes, you can get a little sick of *yet another* profound insight about the human condition gleamed from a baffling text, and just wish SS10 were just another Gov lecture class instead. On the whole, though, your toil will be worth it. I promise.
You should really take it. These are things you should read.
The lectures and tutorial can be disappointing but the readings make this class worth the effort.
While the reading seems impossible and often not worth the effort, the only way to get something out of the class is to understand and contextualize the reading so that tutorial is a 2 hour discussion, rather than a 2 hour quiz from your tutor. An engaged and prepared class makes 10a exciting and unique.
Take notes on your reading and do the reading. It's possible to do it all if you manage your time.
Lectures aren't super helpful, but section is something to look forward to. The course itself is intimidating as all get out, but, as someone with no social theory, I feel like I've gotten a lot of the knowledge you dream of gaining in college from the course. I could discuss social theory in application, but probably not theorize well about specific authors. The other benefit from this course is meeting people from your house in section, and the discussions you have with them, in and out of class, really help you to grow.
All students should take this course. It's incredible, changes the way you see the world.
Just do the reading. Always, and you'll be fine.
I have such mixed feelings about Social Studies 10. First of all, it's really hard to judge this class from shopping period!!!! The gem of the class comes from reading and tutorial, NOT LECTURE! So if you are thinking about it, take 5 classes and drop one (SS10 maybe). Don't shop it once, decide you don't like it, and leave. I didn't go to a great high school, and hadn't ever had access to the kind of rigor or reading list of SS10. So, I feel like SS10 was this great intro to thought I've never seen before. Marx? Had heard of him, but now I know him! Smith? Same. Rousseau? Yep! This is a great basis for my education, and I really liked that. This was potentially the most important class I've taken at Harvard. I feel that the massive reading list can be counterproductive. Look at the comment above mine, now below--I bet one of them's about how tough SS10 is...BUT here's the thing: it's a hard as you make it, and it can be pretty easy to make it easy. As you (inevitably) get overwhelmed, you'll do less and less reading. You'll make bullshit comments in tutorial, you'll struggle through your papers, and (worst of all) you won't be learning in the way SS10 is supposed to teach you. So, basically, this is a potentially AMAZING course. If you click with your tutorial leader and have a good attitude, this can shift your mind in powerful ways. The missing component? YOU! You have to MAKE this class hard--do the readings, go talk to your tutorial leader, and make yourself uncomfortable. That's why you take classes like this; that's why you came to Harvard. Here's to hoping to listen to my own advice in SS10b...
Social Studies 10a is probably the best class I have taken at Harvard.  I enjoy political philosophy and social theory, and this class is the most intensive and rewarding avenue to understanding these subjects.  It is a lot of work, but it is worth it, and grade-wise it is not impossible.  The sections are intimate and thoroughly enriching.  Unless you dislike the subject matter (social theory) you will like this class.
It's a course that is going to take a lot of time to do, but you need to take it
Lectures can be painstakingly boring and sections can be a hit or miss. Course materials are moderately interesting and papers weren't that hard to write. My opinion is that the course is a bit overestimated in that, for me, it was not too difficult to get through this course. I don't personally understand why it has that "really difficult" reputation. You will be taking this course, ultimately to study about Marx. I liked Marx and I got to explore my political and social leanings so that was cool too. All in all, take this course if you are seriously considering Social Studies (lol, it's mandatory) and you will be able to have more flexibility and fun in your junior and senior years. So suck it up now.
Social Studies 10 should be taken by everyone that is interested in POLITICAL THEORY.  There are far too many people in S.S. who are not interested in the abstract - to the fault of both themselves and the class.
Your tutor makes the experience! I truly appreciate and actually kind of worship my TF...so it was amazing! You will learn to think critically about social theory and write meaningful papers.
Ability to read/skim/comprehend a lot of material in a short amount of time is a must. The reading load is a lot but not at all unmanageable. The tutorial is incredible...but that is probably contingent upon who your tutorial leader is, how much work they assign, etc. The papers are a great opportunity to experiment with various styles of academic writing. I took a lot of risks with my papers, encouraged by my tutorial leader, that I would not have taken in another class. They ended up being fun and rewarding, and I have been really happy with the work I've produced so far. This class is what I wanted out of a liberal arts education. So far, it has fulfilled my expectations.
Tutorial is great. Lecture is awful. If you're not social studies, you are better off taking a social theory class elsewhere like philosophy or history.
The course is very difficult, but rewarding.  It is a great way to see if you really want to commit to social studies.  I decided after taking this course that I was not interested in the concentration, but I still do not feel like I wasted my time.
This is undoubtedly a difficult class, with a ton of reading and a high level of writing expected throughout. However, the tutorial aspect was incredibly rewarding, both for the discussions and for the great group camaraderie that developed. Lectures are often painfully boring and did not usually help in writing papers or understanding the text. However, the class is definitely a rewarding experience as a whole.
if you dont have the stomach for social theorists with run-on sentences, avoid
very focused on social theory.  driven by tutor.
This class is an excellent introduction to social theory, tutorial discussions are very helpful and very good feedback is given on essays.
Take take take. It is the only course of its kind offered at Harvard. While the lectures can be dry and boring, the reading list is incredible. This is the only way to get a relatively comprehensive overview of social thought.
This will be one of the most difficult classes that you take at Harvard, but it is worth every minute of work. You will be pushed to reanalyze how you think about society and morality. In addition, you will be pushed to write in a clear and effective manner.
It's hard, but worthwhile. Lectures are not especially helpful for understanding the readings, but fortunately tutorials are great. The main challenge is to grapple with the immense amount of reading and comb through the texts for relevant parts for the papers. It's best if you develop some routine for getting the readings done, otherwise it is really easy for the pages to pile up and become overwhelming.
Great class, but lecture is largely useless. Tutorial and reading great texts is worth it, though. Space out the readings, don't do it all on the last night...
Hard, but worth it.
Don't be too intimidated by the syllabus. You can mostly skim the readings and re-read them for your papers. Get started on your papers early because they will take so much longer than your typical papers and you want to be able to ask your tutorial leader questions about the prompt if necessary.
SS10a. has a particular focus on philosophy; should this not be your interest, then please take this course with a grain of salt.
Be careful when taking this course. Don't get sucked into the prestige of Social Studies - it might simply not be the degree for you. Even though it has more Harvard 'respect' than Gov or Sociology, if you think carefully they may be better courses for you. Those concentrations may actually offer you a department and the type of methodology that would be suited to you. With regards to SS10a I felt as if it didn't 'teach' me anything - all I came away with were some of my own vague understandings of some text that I  always thought would change my life but in fact, generally, left me feeling tired and frustrated. At no point does anyone teach you anything specific or raise any cogent questions. Many grandiose theories and extremely complicated interpretations of massively difficult texts and ideas are offered. However, at no point does anyone develop a key learning question or a key issue....
I thought I would hate this class, but it really wasn't as bad as I had expected it to be. I am actually looking forward to SS10b. I am still skeptical, though, as to how I will be able to apply these theories and these works to my thesis. Regardless, I am glad I was made to take a course such as this one. Definitely one of my most legitimate courses this term.
Be ready for lots of reading
Social Studies 10 is a one-of-a-kind experience you will not be able to take anywhere else.  Take this class!  You will think about society and social interactions in completely new ways and really get to dig into important modern works at a level of sophistication you won't find anywhere else.
Lectures are entirely unnecessary and I don't know why I went to all of them. Seriously you will just sit there and be bored for two hours when you could be using that time to read the ENORMOUS amount of dense reading. Seriously I never was prepared for tutorial because there was just too much to have read in the first place, let alone to remember all at once. But in all honesty, lectures were never helpful writing papers and rarely ever made me think about the reading in a new light.
Make sure to do all the readings, or you will get little out of the course.
This is one of the best classes I have taken.  Reading social theory has made me think about the world in very new ways.  This class provides a lot of room for exploring new ideas.  The section for this class has certainly been among my best experiences at Harvard.  You get to debate and work through your own ideas with other students who are equally as enthusiastic and have very interesting insight, and with a tutor who really helps facilitate discussion.  Though it is a considerable amount of work, it is all worth it.  I highly recommend this class.
If you are interested in the Social Studies concentration, take it.  But don't necessarily judge the entire concentration on your Social Studies 10 experience.
This was a great course: if anything, it forces you to read canonical texts that shaped social theory today. I had a TF that contextualized what we read and was aware of the "dead white man canon," but the lectures make it easy to take the readings and the professors' interpretations as the norm. Anyway, it's a lot of work--don't get behind on the readings.
It's hard, yes, but totally worth it. This course challenges beliefs that you may have held on to your whole life, introduces you to new ideas and stimulates you to become a better intellectual. Lectures are boring a lot of the times, and very long, but they are useful so go to them. Section will be the highlight of this class. Do the reading and think hard about the questions that these thinkers raise. It will change the way you see the world and the way you perceive your role in it.
It will be challenging if social theory is not your thing. Make sure you're prepared.
The readings in this course are so important and if you end up with a great TF it can be very rewarding. The lectures are a waste of time though.
You can get a lot out of this course, if you invest a lot in it. Obviously, you will see a lot of these readings in other philosophy/gov courses, but the combination of lectures and discussions will really help you dig deeper. The papers are doable, and the workload mostly falls on doing the readings every week (don't get behind!). Richard Tuck is a great lecturer - the 2 hr lectures went by in a flash.
Immerse yourself in the texts and read as much as you can - you'll learn so much. Tutorial is intimidating at first but let yourself comfortable and you will come to dominate in the rest of your sections.
I wanted to take this course before I even wanted to concentrate in Social Studies. If you feel like gaining an understanding of the great works in social and political thought is important for your college experience, then there's no other course to take.
It is well worth the toil.
A very good "great books" course, and the tutorials produced excellent discussions.  But I took the course thinking I would want to concentrate in Social Studies, and opted not to because the lectures were quite obtuse and I found the department as a whole to be pretty fragmented and not altogether welcoming.
Tons of reading but great content and amazing discussion.
Make sure to leave plenty of time for your papers.
If you at all have thoughts about Social Studies, you cannot be scared away by this class during shopping week.If there's at all a way to do it, lobby hard to get into Carla Yumatle's section. She's really been a fantastic resource on coursework and is a great person to get to know.The lectures are probably going to seem like a big waste of your time in the way they're organized, but you really need them to make a decent synthesis if you haven't read every page of the text. Tuck and Jewett have some brilliant insights that you can work into your papers, and they have a good but unorthodox way of bringing the material to life. Two hours can seem like a long time, so make sure to bring some caffeine or Crimson Cash for halftime. Also, the Q&A section at the end of each lecture needs some drastic improvement.When doing the readings and writing the papers, be prepared to spend twice as much time as you would for the same page count in another class.
The section compenent of this class is really interesting, but the lectures are really bad.
This class is worth taking because what we read and talk about is incredibly fascinating and so worthwhile. But be prepared for some gruesome lectures. It makes no sense that they are this bad, but they are confusing at best and downright infuriatingly lazy and awful at worst. All the same, Social Studies is a great concentration and this is an AMAZING course with the right tutor!!
probably the most challenging class I've taken at Harvard so far, but also the one that I got the most out of. challenged me to write better, think more critically, and read faster. but be prepared for a lot of reading and know that you can't do it all. also very uneven between sections, so your experience really depends on who your tutor is. if you don't love theory and aren't doing social studies, though, i'd really recommend you think twice before you take it.
If you're at all interested in seeing the ideas and structures that shape your world as more than the "givens" that they are today, take this course.
Fantastic course. Make sure you get a good tutor, because the tutorial makes or breaks your experience of the course.
Take it, take it, take it. This is what college is here for. There is no guarantee your section will rock like mine did or that you won't come out of this hating theory, but it will, with absolute certainty, expand your intellectual maturity and expose you to the most innovative thinkers in Western history bar none. Literally the entire time I was dying under the ridiculous load of my papers and reading from this class my science friends were equally tormented by jealousy from the level of engagement we had in this course.
Difficult, but gives you a firm background in the western intellectual tradition. As long as you get a good tutor, you're golden.
This class is hard, and lectures can be super boring sometimes. Yet you get to read so many interesting thinkers that it is worth it!
SS 10a is a mixed bag. On the one hand, you will explore some of the most profound philosophical and economic texts ever written. Some of these works may change your life and your way of thinking, even in very radical ways. On the other hand, you may be unable (like me) to keep up with the fast pace of reading, which often means you'll come away with dangerously half-baked notions of certain thinkers' ideas, which tend to be quite intricate. Definitely take the class, but be patient and be ready to be frustrated. You might learn more reading the texts in their entirety at your leisure.
If you're interested in intellectual history and understanding how the ideas of the past have affected both the ideas and actions of the present then this is definitely a class you should take. The readings and lectures can be tedious and mind-blowing, but if you enter the course with an open-mind the ideas discussed in it will almost certainly shape and develop the way you think. The books read in this course are the ones you traditionally associate with being a well-read academic individual, and that is exciting.
It is a lot of work, but this is a rewarding class. Lectures weren't the best, but sections were great.
The lectures aren't particularly helpful, but take advantage of tutorial as a time to flesh out ideas and test your understanding of texts.  DO NOT go to section without doing at least a bit of the reading.
Lectures are long, but it's required so if you're doing social studies there's not really a choice. Your tutorial determines the course. It can either be awesome or really frustrating depending on the experience.
Only take if you're comfortable with huge reading assignments and difficult papers. If you are, then you will get a lot out of this course. Lectures are awful, tutorials can be great.
This course is required for concentrators, so even though I loved the course, I won't waste time convincing you to take it. If you want to be a Social Studies concentrator you have to take it, and if you don't, you should only take it if you are willing to work and are interested in philosophy. In terms of advice, I have a few suggestions. 1) KNOW the readings before section! You should come to section with a summary of the argument(s) made in each text. 2) After section, type up what you can about the readings using quotes- this will help you write your essays. 3) Talk to other people in the class as much as possible to develop your understanding of the readings.
Loved section.
Get ready to read!
Social Studies 10 isn't fantastic itself, but the authors and concepts covered are really interesting especially because of the depth they provide for the rest of the material learned within the social science discipline. It's worth taking to see if theory/social studies is what you want to pursue, but definitely be prepared to do a lot of work if you want to get a lot out of the course.
Social Studies 10 is an integral experience--and one I would highly recommend. The tutorial is an incredible component of the class--in no other course will you get as much attention and a comparably intellectual experience.
Pros: a critical look at society.  How did we get here, and why do we live the way we do?  It's fascinating to trace the course of social theory through history.  The house-based tutorial is very intimate and enjoyable.Cons: tons of reading, and pretty tough reading, too.
This course is a great, comprehensive introduction to social theory. We read great works of writing and explore them in detail. You should be prepared to put in a good deal of work to do all the readings thoroughly so that you can take advantage of section.
Lectures can be really boring. Get a good tutorial
Take it, it's really interesting - you get a great small-class setting where you can engage with your classmates on a really good level, can read really interesting things and challenge yourself to think critically about them. I'd definitely take it if you're at all considering it.
Great class, but make sure you're ready. Don't take it if you don't want to do theory (unless you're set on Social Studies, which obviously requires it) - you'll just make yourself miserable.
SS10 is a great survey of important western thinkers.  The lectures are well done, and tutorial is engaging and very helpful.
really great. the readings are not that bad if you approach them strategically. can't think of another course at harvard as good as this one. remember that the course is looking at the picture. if you get a lost in one reading, don't panic. no one's expecting you to become an expert.
A great course, regardless of whether you want to concentrate in social studies or not. The best course I have taken at Harvard by far.
Expect a lot of reading and great tutorial discussion! Lectures are good if you are excited about the material. Otherwise, they can be boring.
Lectures are brutal. I wish each lecture had detailed outlines to go along with them (only Jewett does this and not Tuck). The lectures don't help much because tutorial leaders emphasize different things in the readings or go in depth on certain subject matter anyway. This class will give you a grounding in some great theory, but at the end of the semester you'll have gone through the material too quickly to have a deep understanding.
Far and away the best course I've taken at Harvard. While it may be a lot of work, and the lectures can be drab if you're not captivated by the intricacies of Kant and Marx, every part of it will be rewarding. The readings are superb--the course makes hege efforts to actually read texts, no small excerpts--the lecturers are world class, and the tutorial is more engaged and participatory than any other section you'll have.
There are way too many readings and the material covered is really dense. What's covered is great, but this is a difficult class. Make sure your schedule allows you to take this, but make sure you rearrange your schedule if you are interested in social sciences, because in that case this class is a must-take.
This class is a lot of reading. The lectures are a bit dry at times but the material is very interesting. If you want to be able to follow tutorial at all you need to do the readings. This class is a lot of work but it is worth it.
After taking this course, you will speak, read, and write more intelligently. However, I will admit that it is actually a bit nerve-wracking to sit in section with people who seem to know the material so much better than you and who contribute endlessly to the discussion. As someone who had zero experience in social theory prior to this course, I felt so out of place and downright embarrassed for the first few weeks. My tutorial leader and even some classmates were very supportive, though, and helped me with the material even outside of class. Even if you have no experience with this material, don't be scared of taking this class! If you read these texts on your own, you won't understand them fully without the guidance you receive you in this class. If you really are serious about learning this material, be brave and take Social Studies 10. I loved it (and despite all the rumors, it does not have to kill your GPA).
So long as you do your readings regularly, stop by your tutorial leader's office hours weekly, and remember that there is no question to small to ask, you'll be all right.  Of course, "all right" does not mean you'll come out of this with a 4.0, but it's not that disastrous of a course if you plan your schedule right.
This class is very difficult. I wouldn't take this class for fun because it will be a lot of work and stress. If you are interested in social theory I would look at less ambitious classes. That said, the peers in social studies are very interesting to hear from, so that is a plus.
tutorial can be great but lectures are miserable!!!!
It's a difficult adjustment from other classes, but if you do the readings can be very rewarding.
If you want to do Social Studies, of course take this class. But otherwise, stay away.  It is a ton of work to really understand this material and can take up your whole life.  It can also sometimes be extremely boring.  If you stick it out, though, you will develop skills in reading, interpretation, and writing.
Everyone should read the works covered in this course at some point in their lives. The ideas presented are eye-opening and insightful. My tutorial was superb, although the lectures were frequently dry and uninspiring. Not to mention that they were two (very full) hours long.
This is the best course I have taken as an undergrad so far. It will introduce you to some of history's greatest thinkers and allow you to really understand why the world is the way it is today.
It's all social theory you should know about, but lectures can seem kind of irrelevant.
This class is intellectually challenging and varies a lot by your TF. Lecture is pretty useless but section is amazing, especially if you have a good TF. You also get out of this class what you put in, so though there is a LOT of reading and you definitely don't HAVE to do all of it, the more you do the more you will get out of the class in the end.
Awesome class.  Take it if you are at all interested in social theory.  Section is amazing, lectures are informative but mind numbing.  This is the most relevant course you can ever take; these are the big ideas that you can look at everything else with.  It takes time, but you can always make it work with your schedule.
Definitely a great course to take if you want a grounding in social and economic theory, even for those who aren't social studies concentrators. The material really does constitute the theoretical foundation for much of our modern world, and is just a very valuable thing to know. The time commitment is also not as large as you would think. You quickly learn to skim readings in an effective way, and the most intensive part of the course really is discussion in tutorial.
I was one of the more unusual students who took this class as an elective (I was on the fence about social studies too) because I wanted to explore social theory and hoped this class would be intellectually stimulating.I would say that in many ways, this class was quite a disappointment, and in some ways it was as I expected. This class IS about reading, discussing, writing essays on social theory and theorists. For some of us, that's wonderful, some not-so. I happen to love social theory - so this was the component of the class that met my expectations, and dealing with the great texts of the class was an enriching experience.That said, this class (by its very nature) does not spend long enough on really any thinker, and in certain ways it was not very intellectually rigorous. In addition, I think that as far as the classroom experience goes, you will find a mixed bag of students, some interested/knowledgeable in theory, some not, some pretending to. It can end up being a frustrating 2 hours every week. Basically my advice is really only applicable to people who might want to take this class as an elective out of interest for the materials: I would say, choose a different theory class - something by Peter Gordon, or some philosophy classes, something along the lines of French or German Social Thought. SS10 is not, in my opinion, the class that will be dealing with social theory in the most intellectually rigorous and stimulating manner.
it's a lot of reading, a lot - a lot - a lot of reading! make sure to balance your schedule well! and don't think you'll do all the reading - you wont
Section is what makes the class enjoyable. Even though the readings are heavy, try to do them and understand the work before going to section. Professor Tuck's lectures are very dry and difficult to follow, but it helps to have the reading done before lecture.
1. What Lectures lack, Tutorials make up for. I hated lecture with a passion but loved my tutorial with a passion, and met 6 great people in my house and had a very small class personal experience which was great2. The readings are very interesting, but tedious. 3. Can't say that this intro course is very indicative of the concentration as a whole4. hard class, but very glad i took it in the end.
Best class ever!! Makes you learn critically about the society around you, and improves your writing and reading skills like no other. But do the readings, and participate and take the class seriously if you want to get something out of it.
You learn more than you think you will learn. Regardless of your opinions on them, these texts are important to read and think about, in any context. The papers help engage you in a lot of productive thinking and good argumentation.
The amount of reading is unrealistic. Lectures are boring.
The reading list is very well selected, and tutorials provide a great forum for really delving into the meat of the material.
often overwhelming to do a thorough reading of the texts but worth it at the end; my critical thinking skills have greatly developed through the course
Very good, interesting class. Really liked Tuck's lectures. Some really important texts are studied. Pretty difficult though.
This class helped me understand what "alot of reading" means, as I had not had a class before this where I would get crunched to do that many pages effectively per week, but it was worth it. Great class, learned stuff, got to know people, wrote some. Worth it to take it.
if you get a good tutor you'll love it. if you have a bad tutor you'll hate it. but lectures are also a pain.
Not as much reading as legend holds, but still a good deal. Make sure you care about the subject material before enrolling. This is a fantastic class that exposes you to some of the most important thinkers in human history, but you must be willing to spend a lot of time to really benefit.
Incredible course - I've questioned life and my own sense of morality, existence, and social interaction more than ever before in my life. I feel so much more confident discussing not just theory but any and all critical thinking questions. I see the theories of the thinkers we've read in so many aspects of our lives today - seeing how they have shaped our reality makes me so much more appreciative of theory and philosophy in general.
Do you want to read 200 pages a week?
It's a challenging but rewarding course.
It will change the way you think
Requires a lot of work, but useful.
It's a lot but it's manageable.  Don't be really intimidated by theory, you can do it!
It's a lot of work, but totally worth it. Best class I've taken at Harvard so far.
It is difficult to interact with these excellent writers however when you figure it out it is both illuminating and rewarding.
This course has the potential to be amazing. And it depends completely on your tutorial (i.e., the expertise of your tutor and the intelligence of your classmates).
Although lectures are basically useless, I found it absolutely necessary to really read the texts in depth. Didn't go to lecture after the first two. You'll find you get 10x more out of section.
SS10A is an amazing course if you like social theory. The small size of the tutorial is definitely a great experience!
Lectures can be long and dull at times, but if you enjoy and engage in the reading, the class will be more meaningful.
Social Studies 10 is considered a landmark course at Harvard for a reason. Take this class if you want an opportunity to take a step back and look at our society and its problems and possibilities at a very basic level.
This course is a fantastic introductory intellectual history course for the social sciences. The writing guide on the course website is the best explanation of what the course is, and those considering taking the course should read the course description in this pack. Noting this is very important because within those guidelines it is a wonderful course-a very good explanation of the literature that founded the five disciplines that comprise most of the social studies concentration courses. As long as a student recognizes this purpose of the course (instead of a looking for it to be "all the important ideas about society ever written" or something similar) and is still interested, they will appreciate the course. This is especially a useful course for figuring out if you are more interested the philosophical and intellectual side of social studies or the diagnostic side of social studies where one works to figure out how to save the world or solve serious social issues at a concrete level.
Be a Social Studies concentrator!  This course is great even for those who are not that into theory.  These works are what you should know anyhow, and the tutorial makes the course absolutely spectacular - it's a group of eight students who read the material, make brilliant comments, and become good friends.
This class is a lot of work but it's also incredibly rewarding. This should not be the first experience with philosophy or else it's probably going to be very overwhelming. But if you know philosophy interests you, it's an absolutely amazing class.
If you get a good tutorial, this class will be awesome. Although reading everything is almost impossible and not really necessary, it definitely helps to read as much as you can before tutorial, otherwise it can be a loonggg two hours.
Social Studies 10a is a great course.  The questions that you will tackle in tutorial are profound.  The course is definitely manageable if you keep up with the readings (only necessary to read 50 % or so).  I recommend without any hesitations.
It's not fun unless you happen to land an awesome tutor and realize early that the lectures are a waste of time.
This course is very difficult, time consuming, and intellectually challenging, however, it it absolutely worth the time you put into it.
What a Harvard class should be like. Make sure that your Tutor is good otherwise it can be a drag. Assignments are hard, but you get a lot out of them. Lecture is interesting but sometimes difficult to stay awake through.
An intense but thoroughly rewarding course - you have the unique opportunity to read the major works of Western theorists with an amazing tutorial system.
If you're not great at essays, you won't get much help here. The lectures and sections are interesting, but in the end it's all about the essays, in which you'll write about a limited topic. This can be frustrating. Just pray you get a good tutor, and switch tutors ASAP if you don't.
Amazing ideas and thinkers make this course worthwhile.
Readings are interesting, tutorial helpful, and lectures useless.
great intro to theory, tutorial is one of the best experiences you'll have at Harvard
If you're looking for a course that will make you a more well-rounded human being and will provide a framework for you to better understand the social science and humanities classes you've already taken, you SHOULD take this class.
If you like lots of breadth and not so much depth, this is the course for you. If you like your section, however, the class can be awesome. Lectures are take 'em or leave 'em. The main thing you will get out of this class is the reading, if you actually do it. Take it even if you don't plan to concentrate in Social Studies. If you get Eric M., he's a fantastic tutor, make an effort in his tutorial and you will not regret it.
This class is a definitely lot of work, but you will gain a great deal from taking it.  The tutorial discussions are an incredible opportunity to not only talk to your peers about canonical texts but also to relate them to society today.
This course manages to condense the Western tradition of contemporary social thought without losing much in the way of detail. It's portrayed in a way that makes sense, and in a way that suggests one long train of argumentation from Hobbes down to Marx.
The evaluation process in this class, i.e. the grading and feedback on papers, is totally disconnected from what goes on in class and in readings. You are never taught how to write in this class, even though that is all you are responsible for.
10a is required for the concentration, no way to avoid it.  It is a LOT of reading, but especially if you have a supportive tutor it can be very rewarding.
SS10 is really not as hard as people make it out to be.  Yes, you have to do most of the reading, but it's generally really interesting and tutorial discussions are good too.  Lectures aren't always necessary for tutorial or the essays, but are generally interesting.
This is a fantastic course.  The readings are heavy, but they're certainly worth doing.  The tutorial component is fantastic and it is, over all, a very meaningful course.  However, the lectures are pretty bad and ultimately worthless.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading that sometimes (often) doesn't make sense. Not as accessible as I hoped - you definitely have to think in the right way to do well in this class. That being said, I learned a lot and challenged myself to read and write.
Really only worth taking if you are 90%+ sure about doing the concentration.
It's a lot of work, but I just feel so much smarter after taking this class
This is not the essential Harvard undergraduate experience some claim it to be. The tutorial/lecture arrangement suffers from flaccid, long, and unstructured lectures and a tutorial that can lack rigor and be as weak as the weakest of sections. The readings are assigned without reserve: everyone acknowledges that this class assigns too much reading, but the inability of tutorial and lecture, let alone an unstructured tutorial and an incompetent lecture, to cover 150-200 pages in an accumulated 4 hours means that even one who completes the reading is not rewarded. Also, reading 150-200 pages in a week is one thing, but maintaining an attention to detail throughout that will prove useful when each of the three essays rolls around is another, therefore, rereading becomes a requisite tool. Also, the essays are not well-assigned nor rigorously graded, so they simply become reading comprehension exercises that promote little nuance in one's understanding of the texts. I entered this class expecting to major in social studies: the Q-scores looked great, the readings looked like something I NEEDED to read, and it seemed like a cool, personalized class in a cool, personalized concentration. Exiting this class, I realize many of the Q-score comments are relying on a self-deception rooted in this same idea of NEEDING to read these texts, one that hides the gross flaws that characterize every aspect of this course.
This course provides students with a detailed introduction to social theory, but it involves a lot of reading and thought.
A wonderful, necessary introduction to intellectual thought.
This course can be a good introduction to the most influential and controversial ideas of modern social theory if you put in time reading and writing thoughtfully. Reflecting, each week, on the place of the most recent material in the overall arc of the course will also help you to appreciate the larger philosophical context of the texts. Also: try not to get too hung up on gaps in your understanding (whether they are the result of ignorance of history or of challenges in making sense of texts); notice what gives you trouble, but try to continue moving forward, keeping in mind that Social Studies 10 is meant to be an introduction to ideas, not a consolidation of settled conclusions.
Tuck may be brilliant, but his lectures are boring and convoluted. Jewett is a bit better. Overall, the course is a mixed bag. Just getting through the readings takes up a tremendous amount of time, and if you don't have a passion for social theory, then you're up a creek.
fantastic class.  very hard but actually fun at the same time.  if you enjoy debating in class and learning about some pretty interesting styles of thought, this class is for you.  phenomenal reading list
If you're like me and you're interested in empirical questions, Social Studies 10a is a hurdle to jump.  The theorists' works you read are very complex, very dense, and very long (though please don't feel you need to read every word of every work to survive in tutorial, though you probably should for papers...).  You should also be ready for a very difficult grading scheme; this is Social Studies 10a, not your average Government class.  Tutorial leaders, though generally tough, are also generally excellent; they are PhDs who really take an interest in actually educating you, critiquing your writing, and making you a better student.
That this is an amazing course which provides its students with the opportunity to study western civilization's most influential thinkers, but that it requires its students to work extremely hard.
Great! But if you get the feeling your TF doesn't care if you go to lecture, stop going. Waste of time.
It's a great start to social studies, and the tutorial almost entirely makes up for the lectures often being a little boring as they're just too long.
Social Studies 10a is a whirlwind tour through some of the most brilliant thinkers in the history of Western civilization. It is a solid introduction into a canon that is essential for the capacity to critically engage with one's social and political environment.
This class is life-changing. The professors are outstanding, the authors we cover are brilliant and crucial to an understanding of social theory or the social sciences, and the lecture-tutorial format is great because on each author, you get the perspective of one of the professors, your tutor, and your peers in tutorial.People may claim that this course is straight-white-male-centric, and see it as a failing of Social Studies. Let's be clear: Social Studies is one of the most ideologically-radical and educationally-progressive concentrations at this school. These are the major works of social thought. The question---and I'm sure anyone in the Social Studies faculty would be more than happy to discuss it---is not why the tutorial only covers these straight white men, but why only straight white men were writing this material at the time. (Also note that between Marx in 10a and de Beauvoir and Fanon in 10b, the materials cover both the ideological bases of modern Western white-male-dominated imperial liberalism but its critics.)
Though it depends in large part on your tutor, it's pretty much as difficult as you think it is.  Not a class to be taken lightly.
Lots of reading, lots of work, but very interesting discussions in tutorial.
Readings are ONLY difficult because of their length. Don't be intimidated by the authors whose arguments you will tackle in the course. However, DO be wary of the extreme length of the weekly readings, which I didn't always feel was justified.
I don't know why this class had such a great reputation. This is the devastating fallacy which lured me into taking it. If you've actually taken a good course, you will recognize how terribly unincredible soc. 10 is.
The course is definitely not as difficult as everyone makes it out to be. However, it does require a good amount of effort. The lectures are painful and the lecturers have very few redeeming qualities beyond the content of their speeches.
This is probably the class I have learned the most from at Harvard. I think every Social Science concentrator should be required to take it. It teaches you how to think critically about the world.
Be prepared to work very hard. The weekly reading load is excessive, and you need to understand it, and be able to reference passages,for tutorial. Lectures are a drag, and a lot of people stop showing up pretty soon. The essays/assignments are very demanding, but it's a great feeling to be able to use the arguments and analytical frameworks introduced in this class in other contexts.
be strategic about your reading!
I am lazy, and this class was hard - but it was totally worth it.Sure, most of the readings you could read on your own, but come on are you really going to do that?There is a LOT of reading, but nobody does it all, and you can selectively read so as to focus on an essay topic.Lecture is super boring but I never went because it wasn't very necessary.
Do the reading, be able to participate in discussion, realize how incredible a learning experience tutorial is.  You won't be thinking that when you have a paper due, but you will in retrospect.
The section component is very good. I learned a lot from discussing the philosophers with 7 other students and my tutorial leader, and I also to know everyone else in my tutorial. It is hard to complete the readings each week, and the lectures are sometimes unclear and uninteresting.
People will tell you that this course will probably be one of your defining academic experiences at Harvard. They will be right.
refuse the Peretz money. otherwise, amazing concentration.
I thought that the course covered a lot of material, but I think that it is very geared towards those interested in Social Theory. If you are interested in more practical applications of Social Studies, you may not enjoy this class, but don't let that discourage you from taking it for your concentration. This class does not have to reflect your overall Social Studies experience if theory is not what you are interested in.
You learn how to do "close readings" of texts that every educated Westerner ought to be familiar with.
It is an amazing class with incredible reading material.  You will not get to read it all because there is so much, but what you get from the course regadless is incredibly.  It allows you to see how we have been shaped by the great thinkers without even realizing it.  PLEASE TAKE THIS COURSE!!! YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT!!!
It fulfills the interdisciplinary promise of the Social Studies program. Insights from this class helped me in several other classes I was taking this semester, and will presumably continue to help me in a wide range of courses in years to come.
GPA killer but I learned a lot. Sometimes I wanted to cry.
Don't take it if you really don't like political theory.
The more readings You do, the greater experience You have.
This is an incredible class, an in my opinion one that everyone should take, whether or not they are interested in social studies as a concentration. It goes beyond the fact that the readings for the class are taken from the works of some of the best and most influential minds of the last few hundred years. These authors are indeed important to read and understand well at some point, and the ideas and intellectual tools they provide are essential to more fully understand the world we live in, but the most important thing this class offers is the chance to see their ideas as the complex--and somewhat contradictory--theories that they are. Most instruction on these philosophers and social theorists presents a fairly cartoonized version of their thoughts, simplifying their ideas not to the point where they aren't true, but to the point where they no longer really represent the subtle interactions that the philosopher took pains to explain thoroughly. If you really want to understand Smith beyond a modern economic explanation of his ideas, and if you like the idea of discussing the various reasons Marx may or may not have been justified in making a certain claim, you should take this class. Also, the chance to have a really good discussion with a small group of students and a tutor is something not to be passed up.
Do the readings before section, and try not to get behind - it's very hard to catch up and you use all the readings from the course to write papers.
Take this course if you are at all thinking of Social Studies as a concentration, or if you want a background in some of the important books of intellectual thought. I came into this class thinking it would be a great background for life - and now it's my concentration! You never know! And even if you don't end up being in the concentration, it is still very worthwhile!
SS10a is the most challenging and rewarding class I've taken at Harvard.
This class is an excellent introduction to Social Studies.  While at times it can feel dry and extremely theoretical, if you have the good luck to receive a tutor who can raise these texts from their long dead authors, you will feel more involved than any other class could offer.  Keep in mind that many of these writers were WRONG, or have since been proven sexist/racist/imperialist.  It is valuable to your education to study them and you will come away from the experience prepared to take on other theorists with a more sophisticated approach.  The class is a lot of work, but it is mostly based on pride - you can get away with doing minimal reading.  However when you do invest time into the class, you will be rewarded.
Take this class if you have any interest in social studies or political science or theory. The reading list is amazing, the professors are phenomenal, and the class itself is structured in such a welcoming way that you really do have amazing discussions. TAKE THIS CLAS. TAKE IT.
You have to take this class if you're a social studies concentrator.  There's little incentive for anyone else to; you'll likely learn no more than if you read the books by yourself.  This class forces you to read them, but it happens so rushed that you might not get much out of them.
this class makes you think and read.  The sections were awesome.  The lectures were ok too.  Definitely recommend if you want to challenge yourself in a humanities course.
Make time to do as much of the readings as you can so you can truly grasp the material
If you loathe reading and writing, this is not the course for you. However, I recommend this course without reservation to anyone interested in improving their analytical reading and writing skills. Social Studies 10a will force you to tighten and refine your writing. The reading assignments are dense and lengthy, but many students find them inherently intriguing. The papers were the most difficult I have ever had to write, but I found the resulting intellectual and academic challenges invaluable to my progression as a student, as well as my personal edification. It is hard to explain exactly what you get from Social Studies 10a, but it is a sense of fulfillment and satisfaction that you won't get from many (if any) of your other classes. I highly recommend this course, and would argue that it is worth your investment (and occasional frustration).
What an awesome class. Take it!  The ideas studied in this course are central to understanding Western civilization as it has been constructed and will improve your understanding of other social science courses. The only thing to look out for in this class is the endemic activism: many, if not most, of the students have strong political inclinations and will proceed to evaluate all social theory in terms of their own pre-conceived normative notions. In a class that aims in part to uncover and question the subtle sources of normativity in social science disciplines, this is ironic to watch play out at the same time as it is sad. My advice: give every idea encountered in the course a fair shot, even if it's from Hegel or Marx or Adam Smith. You may be shocked at how much you learn and how much this challenges your thinking on basic levels. It will also let you chuckle inside whenever you hear one of the self-styled activists in the class speak so confidently about a question thinkers of historic import have struggled with for centuries.
This is the worst course offered at Harvard. It is essentially a literature review of elitist philosophy that is not even relevant anymore to a majority of practical fields in the concentration.
Tutorial makes up for lecture, but the readings may still be challenging. Helps you see the world in a more thoughtful way. Prompts you to really define what you think.
A great course and introduction to social theory, certainly changed my perspective about certain things I used to take for granted about our society. The section portion of the course is by-far the most important, so make sure you like your tutor.
Social Studies 10a is challenging but phenomenal. Do the reading, give it your all, and you'll get a lot back in return.
This should be mandatory for all citizens. SS10a is horizon-expanding and also just really enjoyable.
Social Studies 10a is one of the most difficult classes offered here at Harvard. I'd be absolutely sure that you intend on concentrating in Social Studies, unless you might find that you are just taking a really a really difficult elective
If you are thinking about becoming a social studies concentrator you must take this course. But I would recommend it to anybody looking for an in depth survey course on the "canon" of Western social theory. Each and every author read is important to be known for any educated adult. The thinkers I studied here and their words is information that I know will not end in this classroom, but also something I will take with me into the future.
I entered this class trying to decide between Social Studies and Hist&Lit, and even though I ultimately decided on H&L, this class may have been the best I've taken so far at Harvard.  Even if you think you may concentrate in something other than Social Studies, take this class.  It's organized so that you can hear what the most knowledgeable professors think about the topics, as well as giving you time to engage with the material in a small tutorial setting.  If you put a lot into this course, you will come out a smarter person and you will realize that studying social theory isn't a waste of time at all.
Make the most of it and it's up to you to do so.
This class was really spectacular and changed how I look at societies and government.  There is a lot of reading, and some of it is difficult and tedious, but the course is incredibly rewarding.  The ideas from all of these authors are fascinating.
The readings for this class are amazing.  They're really the sort of thing that you don't want to miss out on in life, and now's a great time to read them.  The tutorial format is pretty good, though sometimes long, and some of the two-hour lectures were incredibly soporific.  Also, the readings are terribly long (e.g., over 400 pages of Mill in two weeks).
The class is difficult - readings are heavy and sections are rigorous. That said, section for this class has likely been the most formative academic experience I've had at Harvard. Section leaders demand a high level of interaction with and understanding of the text, evidenced by both the intensity of discussion and the maturity of the paper topics. It will require a lot of time, but definitely take SS10 if you're thinking about it - there's no better way to learn to write and think critically, and you'll dominate section in any other class for rest of your time here.
This course is difficult but teaches you to think analytically at a higher level than you probably have been exposed to before. The texts you read are important to read as an educated citizen of the Western world.
If you are on the fence about taking this course, take it. You'll learn a new way of thinking about texts and about social/political theory and you'll have amazing discussions. Plus the tutorial format itself makes the class worth it--this is a rare opportunity to get to work in a small group and tackle tough questions in a collaborative way. Writing the essays is challenging but your tutor is always there to help and offer guidance.
So worth it! Tutorial is a quintessential Harvard experience, and a great way to dive into texts that I would've never read by choice but always wanted to understand. A lot of work, but you get out what you put in.
Social Studies 10 is an excellent course about Western social thought. You come away with a working understanding of several great thinkers. The class requires and elicits intense thought. It is the best course I have taken.
This class requires work, but it is worth it. Don't be intimidated by the reading list or by the reputation it has; it is totally manageable and fascinating. It will make you a better student, and you will want to read social theory forever.
It's a hard core survey of most every important thinker that you hear about. Social Studies students are very motivated and have great discussions. Absolutely take it if you are considering social studies.
Heavy courseload of reading and writing, so be prepared. No, really. Also, if you haven't taken a philosophy course before, be prepared to do several revisions of your writing.
You MUST be willing to work hard and read carefully - yes, for up to 10-20 hours a week - to perform well in this class.  If this class isn't a top priority, it will be a VERY painful experience.
This is one of the closest things to a Great Books course that Harvard offers. If you want to engage with some of the greatest thinkers of all time, take this class. You'll get to immerse yourself in the great ideas by reading them, listening to lectures about them, debating them, and writing about them all semester. This is what every Harvard class really should be like. Even if you don't really want to concentrate in Social Studies, but think the class sounds great, take it. You may switch out of the concentration later, which is just fine, but this may be your only chance to take Social Studies 10.
It's a real academic challenge, but one you feel very good about on the other side.
Be prepared to do a lot of difficult and complicated reading.
this course is unique at harvard for offering exposure to many classic texts of social theory and offering many great opportunities for discussion with fellow student in very small sections and in dining halls because over a hundred people are all taking the course and thinking about the materials
You'll either love it or hate it. Good litmus test for Social Studies methinks.
willing to work hard
Excellent reading, engaging lectures, and a tremendously significant material is covered.
Be willing to work hard.
Its A LOT of reading so be prepared. And you can't BS the essays
If you have any interest in concentrating in Social Studies, take 10a. Even if you decide on another concentration, you will be glad you took this incredible course!
The weekly discussion section only has EIGHT people.  That's quality.
The class is extremely rewarding if you have and can put in the time and effort for it.
It is a lot of work (such dense reading!) but you get a lot out of it. I think everyone should have to take a class like this before graduating college.
Pleasantry punctuated by rewarding excruciation.
The course is a lot of hard work and most of it is rewarding depending on your tutorial. The lectures can be hit and miss in terms of quality because of the style of the lecturers but one can almost always find value in the readings.
SUCH a good class, if you're willing to work hard.  If you are, it really will be one of the greatest classes here bc everyone else is working hard, including the professors and TFs.  If you are not, don't take it.  But you should, and you'll get so much out of it. Outstanding class.
do the reading, but do it after you know what is expected of you.
Important for any modern thinker, even if not interested in anything but science. These topics should be explored by any human being, any citizen and thinker.
Only take it if you like philosophy.  If you don't like philosophy, tons of reading, or writing papers, then this class is most definitely not for you.
Don't get behind.  You are also not the only one struggling.
This class is good for you, like steel-cut oats.
This class may provoke an existential crisis. As the Teacher writes in Ecclesiastes, "Vanity of vanities, all is vanity!"
It is very rigorous, and the lectures are extremely cerebral.
If you like theory, this is an interesting course, but if you are not interested in theory it is a rather painful requirement--a lot of dense reading.
it's intellectually stimulating and the readings are all interesting, the lectures are also good. brace yourself for the papers though.
It is very difficult but totally worth the time. It changes the way you think about the world.
Only take it if you're planning on concentrating. If you're just interested, audit. The lectures are fantastic but the reading is a burden and tutorial is not the best part.
Bread and butter.
It is difficult, but the concentration, and the class, is worth consideration.
Very difficult class that requires serious work, but interesting.
it's hard work, but if it's what you like it's worth ityou really challenge yourself and learn
It's a great course that makes you really learn the major philosophies from the past 200-300 years. The tutorial-lecture course format is very rewardingly-challenging. This course really makes you think and opens up thoughts that stay with you outside of class as well.
Of course students that are interested in Social Studies are required to take this course, however, I would just tell them of the difficulties I had with my TF and hope that they have a much better experience.
Social Studies 10 will sometimes feel like it is trying to kill you. But stick with it. Once you conquer the reading and the style of analysis, you will LOVE it!! By far the best class that I have taken at Harvard.
The course is reading intensive, but well worth the work.
The reading is hard, but doing it is really rewarding
The readings get more interesting as you go. I definitely liked this class as the semester went on.
Work very hard but you learn a lot
ONLY take this course if you are genuinely interested in the readings, or if you are really serious about taking Social Studies, otherwise I'm afraid you might hate it!
Great course! Take it, even if you're just considering Social Studies.
This course is the type of course I came to Harvard to take - it makes you feel like a more educated person for having taken it. It is also a good way to explore your own ideas about some of the key questions of history.
This course is really really hard.  It is very work intensive.  Readings are incredibly long and at times totally incomprehensible (especially Hegel and Marx).
Social Studies 10a is worthwhile even if you decide not to concentrate in Social Studies - the skills you will learn will help you excel in any discipline.
Be prepared to read a whole lot. Also, your tutor will make or break this class (i.e. a very rewarding experience or a living hell).
The amount of reading is unreasonable but the class will make you quite reasonable.
This is the most interesting and engaging course I've taken so far at Harvard.
Course takes up 8-10 hours per week just in reading, never go to sections unprepared because it will be obvious
It's tough but it's worth it. Man up.
It's a transformative academic experience and reminds you why you came to Harvard.
The idea of a "theory-based course" can be daunting if you've never taken one such course before. But, in reality, the readings were more than doable (they were done!). The tutors and your peers are extra dedicated, and yet you are not all the same. Your backgrounds and the way you wish to take the theory vary, and that's what adds to discussions. Lectures and tutorials are two hours long, but you'll be focused the entire time.
That it's a great grounding in social theory, even if you're not sure if you want to be a Social Studies concentrator. I entered the course unsure about social theory and ended up finding it a really useful lens for other courses and other work.
you get a deep understanding of anything. it's really just a canvassing of ideas.
This class is very, very difficult, and you should not take it unless you are willing to do a TON of really demanding reading.  But it is highly rewarding and visibly improves your writing, thinking and speaking skills.
Very interesting and engaging survey of early modern social theory.  Very rewarding class, but can be torture if you're not interested in the material.
be prepared for many long and comprehensive readings
It's hard, but I really think it's going to be worth it in the end (social studies as a concentration). I learned a lot and really thought about questions and topics I've never thought about. It's also really cool reading all of the famous writers.
It's goooood, therefore, you should make sure you can dedicate to it the time that it deserves.
I was able to debate things in tutorial, that in "polite society" are considered taboo. My mind was both opened to a plethora of ideas, and trained in how to interpret and respond to these ideas. Most importantly, we were not thought what to think, but how. This is an invaluable skill that I will use in the rest of my coursework at Harvard and in the world beyond. Regardless of if you are concentrating in Social Studies, take this course! It will be very challenging, but even more rewarding.
If you're interested in social issues and social theory, then this is the course for you.  But it may not be worth all hours spent working on this course.
These are all books that people should read at some point in their life. But no way will you ever make yourself read them on your own. Take this course, do the reading, listen to the great lectures, write a few papers, and be a smarter person. Makes for great cocktail party conversation.
This affected a lot of my personal philosophies and ways of approaching life. I definitely wouldn't go so far as to say it totally changed my perspective, but it definitely made me reevaluate how I view the social world and what's important to me academically and personally.
Learn a lot about social philosophy. Great overview.
Very difficult. Experience will somewhat depend on who you get for tutorial leader.
This course will make you engage with some of history's great thinkers. You will walk away from this course a much better thinker with a quiver full of philosophical and theoretical arguments that will serve you well throughout your academic and professional career.
Be prepared to work and have an incredibly interesting and rewarding experience.
It changes the way you think about the world. One of the best classes i've taken at harvard
It's totally worth it. I was just shopping it and ended up declaring Social Studies. Best class I've taken at Harvard.
Very good class, but take it only if you are prepared to devote a lot of time to reading dense philosophical texts. Don't be surprised if a 10 page paper for this class takes much longer than a 10 page paper for another class.
having a solid background in philosophy and social theory is extremely advantageous. don't get behind on the readings AT ALL. give yourself plenty of time to do the readings as it seemed like each sentence we read requires extensive analysis.
I do not think of myself as someone who likes theory, but I found a lot of what we were studying interesting. The fact is that this is the stuff our society is based on so you can't help but be intrigued by it. As someone who is more interested in politics and economics, I am still struggling to see how this will be helpful to my thesis, but considering the sheer number of people that have told me it's a leap of faith worth making I'm going with it. It is not the nightmare that people will have you believe, so if you are at all interested in Social Studies definitely try out a semester. I almost didn't take it because of the things I heard, and granted it is difficult, but if you're willing to do the readings and can write essays you should go for it. It's a whole different experience from any other class you take, and I think for that you get more out of it and really learn a lot.
In Social Studies 10a, I have finally found the perfect combinationit is at once my most challenging class and my most enjoyable, satisfying class; it is at once a class I ought to take as a citizen of the world, and a class I want to take. This is a Harvard caliber course; the class provides the type of intellectual environment and produces the quality of discussion you expect out of a course at Harvard and rarely actually experience here. If you put a lot into this course, you'll get a lot out of it. Having great tutors is essential to your experience. Never miss lecture or section and stay on top of each week's reading because it'll be impossible to catch up.
If you are committed to doing as much of the reading as possible and really participating in section, this course can be very rewarding.  It will be frustrating, though, if you try to get by on less than full commitment.
Social Studies 10 is for people who enjoy social theory and can read a lot of it each week.  It is also for people who do not mind a European perspective.
This class is a lot of work, but definitely worth it.  The professors are phenomenal as are the tutorials.  And, even if you end up hating the class, you will come out of it well-versed in the ideas of many major social theorists, which can be useful not only in defending arguments (or refuting the arguments of others) but also as a basis for social theory jokes, which aren't ridiculously nerdy at all.
This class will really challenge you to understand dense philosophical writing and complex ideas.  It's a lot of reading, but necessary to write a strong paper.  Sections vary between laid back reflection and cold calling.
difficult but rewarding in retrospect
It is really difficult, but kind of rewarding. Don't get behind, although it is pretty easy to do so. It is very interesting though.
you've got to work your ass off, but it's totally worth it
The section makes or breaks this class. Make sure you find a good section, and do whatever you can to change sections if you don't like it initially. From what I've heard, tutors are very hit-or-miss.
Be prepared for a stimulating and enjoyable discussion on some of the greatest thinkers. A quintessential Harvard course - small sections, great teaching, and great discussions. Your thoughts are challenged and your perspectives are broadened.
Take this only if you're definitely interested in the Social Studies concentration because it requires A LOT of work
"steel cut oats."
Fascinating texts, but a lot of reading.  There's no escaping it.  Introduction to political and social theory is interesting but requires you to put in the work.  If you do, it can be very rewarding.  If you fall behind, good luck.  Section component is great, but how great depends on your section leader.  Prepare to spend lots of time on readings and papers.
lot of work
This is a really frustrating course for those wishing to study things in Social Studies aside from political philosophy. The lack of diversity in the syllabus and the absence of any critique of this lacking is one of the biggest weaknesses. That being said, SS10a does offer an intensive introduction to social theory which is helpful in determining if it is something you would like to pursue.
It is hard, but it is worth it. The readings will take you forever, but you have to figure out what parts you need to read in order to be able to contribute in tutorial. Lectures are, for the most part, interesting. Frazer is hilarious at timees, as is Tuck, though Tuck can start talking in circles. Pay attention in lecture, or you will quickly find yourself lost. Don't be intimidated!! It is not the deathly experience some make it out to be.
It's a lot of work and a lot of reading, but you develop a strong foundation in social theory. The professors and tutors are very good.
The lectures are boring, but you really learn how to read theory, which is an important skill, and you learn what important thinkers actually thought about various topics. This course will make you a better thinker, reader, and writer. Meet with your tutors often. The tutorial component is much more enjoyable if you do all of the reading.
Be prepared to work hard, but it is worth it.
It is difficult, but entirely worth the time and effort put in.
If you get a good tutor, it will be really good and make you think a lot about the world and society.
It is not as rigorous as it is reputed to be.
if you don't have a good tutor, ask your friends who are the good ones, and switch! tutors make or break the class.
Be smart and selective about how you read, only take this if you absolutely love talking about dead white guys and their flawed theories about how the world worked, while never critiquing their ideas, simply regurgitating them.
10a requires that you put in a lot of work (readings, papers, etc.) but it is definitely worth it. Make the most of your tutorials, they are the core component of this course. If you don't like your tutor or have misgivings about his/her teaching early on, definitely join another tutorial.
You think you can handle a lot of reading...and then you take this class. Get ready to discuss Marx without having ANY IDEA WHAT THE HELL YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT. I found the volume of reading frustrating; but it is all really good reading, so it's a trade-off.
If you want to do some thinking that actually seems important, take this class.
It is definitely a challenging course, but very much worthwhile
Social Studies 10a is the best academic experience I have ever had. To me, taking this course meant stepping out of my comfort zone, engaging my intellectual curiosities as much as possible, and finally finding my niche in the academic disciplines here at Harvard. This course made my semester very enjoyable, in spite of the fact that the other classes I took were not so great. Taking this course was perhaps the best decision related to academics that I have ever made, as this course really changed me as a person and as a young learner.
be ready to read a lot and to adapt your writing style to the demands of social theory
They hold your hand. It's a very positive environment.
Social Studies 10a is the quintessential class for any informed citizen of the world. It teaches you how to THINK, a quality that is actually very rare. I loved it!!!
This course is not an accurate look at social studies as a concentration, and in general fails to create a cohesive feeling about the major. Although it starts off with grand gestures towards taking a universal view at essentially the flow of human history, it quickly descends into pedantic quibbling and aimless analysis which seems to endlessly eat its own tail with self-referential logic. I came out of the course not really knowing what I was supposed to have learned. Maybe these questions will be answered in Social Studies 10b, but if they couldn't get their act together in 1 semester I don't see what a second will do. Also, for a more superficial complaint, it's in Sever 113, easily one of the most uncomfortable lecture halls on campus, and coupled with the fact that it's a 2 hour lecture with no breaks for stretching it's nearly impossible to stay awake during the whole lecture.
If you want to understand Western political and social thoughtand you shouldtake this class.
Be ready and willing to do a lot of reading! Start early in the week, doing a little bit every day. Don't make the mistake of trying to do it all in one night, it is interesting stuff and you will want to get through a lot of it.
The readings are really hard and take a lot of time, but you come out with a thorough understanding of the basic tenets of the major social science disciplines.
This course is deeply engaging.
Interesting thinkers and works, but be prepared to never finish the reading.
You only need to skim the readings.
even if you don't decide to concentrate in social studies, this is one of those absolute must classes that you should take during your undergraduate career.
The more effort and work you put into the class, the more you will get out of it. In fact, if you're planning on half-assing it, this is definitely not the course to take.  It's a lot of work but its definitely worth it.
I think that upperclassmen make SS10 out to be a lot scarier than it is. If you like talking about big ideas, it's the place for you.
Do not be intimidated. People complain about the workload in this course, but only because they're used to being able to get by on rote memorization and study guides. This course will force you to think, and you'll come out a better person for it.
This course teaches material that everyone should be familiar with. The lectures are lack-luster. The tutorials are generally good. Be prepared to work hard and to want to understand the readings. The readings are very dense and long.
It either turns you on or pushes you away.
You will get out of this course whatever you put into it. If you work hard, it may very well be the most rewarding class you take at Harvard; if you try to coast, it will be a very difficult experience. However, this course should not scare any good students away from Social Studies. It is difficult, but eminently manageable if you are enthusiastic about it.
Be prepared to teach yourself nearly everything, and be prepared to
Take this class if you are serious about becoming a social studies concentrator -- otherwise, you may find it to be too much work in addition to your concentration requirements and focuses.
As long as you're willing to do the reading, this is a terrific course.
A very good course that covers the basics of modern social theory. Will not be difficult if you have done theory. Tuck's lectures are especially good if you have a background in the material.
Take it if you are prepared in the above ways. I would be more hesitant to recommend this course to people of color, women, or queer people who are critical of old, white, upper-middle-class men. The texts can be super interesting, engaging, and positively challenging, but just be wary of the fact that you'll have to create a space in which to operate comfortably, because there won't be one otherwise.
Great class. As little or as much work as you want it to be. No exams, so if you're good at writing papers, this should not be a problem.
If you are at all considering taking this class, TAKE IT.  It's a lot of reading, but manageable, and so worth it. But do the reading closely the first time--it will make the papers a lot easier.
This is crucial to understanding our intellectual history.
It was a great experience, even though it was a struggle at times. It was one of the best intellectual experiences I had at Harvard so far. I rarely came out of tutorial disappointed.
Social Studies 10 is an amazing course. You will learn so so much and as a consequence, you will sound really smart when you can debate the ethics of Kant's Deontological framework and Mill's Utilitarianism in front of your friends. On a more serious note, you truly do gain a lot of valuable knowledge and skills from this course. You writing will improve, your reading skills will get much better, and the way you think about philosophy will be broadened.
I feel smarter for having taken this course. Yes, it's a lot of reading, but it's not too bad, though I appreciate wikipedia. You learn things that you feel like you came to Harvard to talk about.
Social Studies 10a is a class that can be extremely influential in your intellectual development - if you put in the adequate work that is necessary to appreciate and understand the theories. The tutors and professors are experts (mostly because they have been reading these texts over and over again for years), and they help you see things in the theories that otherwise would have gone unnoticed - but you will have to put a significant amount of effort into the class to truly reap the benefits.
Social Studies 10a is a great class for those invested in understanding origins of modern political and moral thought
Here are the great works and the greatest minds of Harvard discussing them with you.
It's challenging, there's a lot of work, and it's not the most exciting material at first, but you learn how to find it interesting and exciting. It's really one of the most rewarding classes I've ever taken. I feel like I have learned so much.
If you're not a theory person, think seriously before taking this class.  That said, the class is a great introduction to political theory and is a great survey course in that regard.  There is a LOT of reading, and the paper assignments can be challenging.
Make sure you like philosophy, can be convinced that everything's wrong in the world and still get up in the morning and reading, and have the ability to generate enthusiasm when you've read 200 pages already, and have 100 more to read by tomorrow... and its 1:00 in the morning.
it's a great course for getting acquainted with the classics of political philosophy and social thought but just be prepared to read and digest a LOT of material in a LITTLE amount of time.
This is a rigorous, rigorous course. If you enjoy thinking about how society should work you will love it. If you liked Justice, there is a good chance you will really really like this course.
Make sure you know what you are getting into before you take this course. There is loads of reading which makes up for the fact that there are only a couple of essays.
If you're good at self-teaching and know you like social theory, go for it. But if dense readings aren't easy for you to get through, this class is going to be tough. I felt like I had little guidance.
very interesting readings; will help you to think about society in different ways
Get a good tutorial. It makes or breaks the course
Even if you're not going to concentrate in Social Studies, you should take this class. It's the kind of class you came to Harvard to take, and it will make you into a better, more informed, more cognizant person. There's a lot of reading, you have to work very hard, but it's so worth it--everyone should take this class before they leave Harvard.
Professor Frazer might say something in the first lecture about Machiavelli in exile sitting down in his study to read and feeling like a king because he was joining in this amazing age-old conversation. Except for the fact that there's a lot of reading and school is demanding, every once in a while you get a flash of that feeling, and then what he said rings soooo true. It's a really fabulous opportunity to learn in-depth the stuff that everyone talks about but hasn't really dug their teeth into, and what's more, to be asked to criticize it and form your own opinion. This is as real as it gets and it's a fantastic class. And tutorial and lectures are absolutely fabulous. I am so enormously glad I took this class!
a lot of reading, a lot of thinking, long lectures
While it requires a significant volume of dedication and passion, the course is among the most rewarding that I've taken at Harvard.
This course is incredible; take it, and request to have Thomas Ponniah and Melanie Adrian as your tutorial leaders (especially Ponniah).  It is the best course that I have taken; I wish I could take it every semester.  Read as much as you can and annotate and ask questions and go to office hours and start the papers early and write at least one draft and speak out in tutorial and talk to classmates outside tutorial about the material; that's how you'll get the most out of the course.
The readings and essays, while long and complicated, end up being surprisingly understandable through effective lectures and sections. Don't be intimidated by the big names or big workload, this is a bread and butter course for any well-rounded education.
I expected Social Studies 10 to be an intellectual community of sorts, in which dedicated, thoughtful students deeply engaged with the readings each week and then were eager to have intensive discussions about it, both in and outside of tutorial. Clearly, in retrospect, I was incredibly naive in thinking this. There are some very smart, motivated students in the class who actually do care, but the overall ethos is one of disinterest and mediocrity. Don't get me wrong -- the readings are amazing and completely worthwhile, but that's about it in terms of what you can expect to take away from the class, at least based on my experience. Here's hoping that my experience is in the minority, though.
Discussions within tutorial can be immensely frustrating but also enlightening. The lectures and readings pose very provocative questions about the role of the individual within society, the role of government and religion, and the systems of dependence and exploitation among different classes. Towards the end we began to apply the theory to modern issues such as consumerism and income inequality. Perhaps will allow you to recognize and take ownership of your responsibility to those around you.
This is an exceptional course. It is hardbut the return is enormous. Demonstrably enhances your ability to read, write, and think.
It's mandatory for Social Studies concentrators
Tutorials vary a lot, which can really affect your experience of this class. The readings are difficult, involved, and long, but if you put real effort into them, it's incredibly rewarding to see your understanding grow. It's a great survey class, even for people not concentrating in social studies. Lectures are also long, bring some coffee, but most of them are relatively interesting.
I went into this class thinking I was just taking it as a painful concentration requirement.  Left feeling like it was one of my favorite classes at Harvard thus far.
Ughhhhhhhhhhhhh
This course is a requirement for Social Studies so there's no avoiding it, but it's great to get an exposure to all these key writers and thinkers of history. I had reservations going in because I knew that I didn't want to necessarily study social theory and philosophy as a Social Studies concentrator, but I still found it useful to read all these writers, and found some of my most thoughtful and intellectually stimulating discussions at Harvard in the tutorials for this class. The readings can be tough at times, and take a really long time to get through each week- I can safely say every free time I had I was reading the material for this class- but if you learn to skip over some things and just get the main ideas of each writer, it'll be less of a challenge and time-consumer.
This is not a course you just take for fun. Take it if you are very serious about philosophy or are strongly considering social studies. The work is worthwhile if you have an interest in the subject, but it has to be the main focus of your courseload.
The course features a lot of interesting authors but it includes a large amount of reading.
This class is definitely no walk in the park. There is seemingly endless reading to do every week and it can be hard to get through some of the authors (especially Kant and Hegel) because of their writing style and structure. Though if you put in the effort to understand the readings and pay attention in lecture (which can be boring), your mind will be opened to new ideas and analyses of the way the world came to become what it is today. Sections and papers are intellectually stimulating and, if you're lucky, will allow you to connect the readings to current events to make the theories even more realistic. I have grown so much as a student and become a budding intellectual thanks to 10a and look forward to continuing the journey into 10b.
Be ready to read a ton of theory, tackle challenging essay topics, and listen in tutorial so that you can learn as much from your peers and their questions/insights as you would learn from your tutor. Be open and willing to be challengedif you do not take this mentality from the get-go, your experience in SS10a will be subpar.
If you give this course a chance and delve deeply into the texts, you could enrich your perspective on life in ways that no other course might be able to do. In no other framework will you have a lecture, an intimate discussion session and paper-writing that is specifically tailored to helping you glean the most out of the very complex pieces you'll read. I think this course should be mandatory for all Harvard students.
If you work hard, you will get a lot out. That doesn't mean you have to read everything. You just have to focus on key components of the reading to demonstrate to yourself and your peers a deep understanding of core concepts.
Overall a great course, the best overview of renaissance/modern philosophy available at Harvard. Don't bother doing all the reading. Get the author's main idea, then move on.
You have probably heard it's a tough class, but it is quite manageable. The readings are long and confusing, but after section, you'll have a clearer idea of the main topics. I did not know the difference between social studies and sociology before shopping period. After attending info-sessions, I thought I was going to concentrate in sociology before I shopped both and now I have decided on social studies. So give the class a try! This has been the best class I have taken so far.
Doing the readings and going to lecture really do help you glean more from this class. If you put the work in to really understand each thinker every week, then you will benefit not only by getting a better grade in the class but by feeling confidence to discuss and apply these thinkers in your other classes / in everyday life.
The strength of this course is its syllabus. It is very difficult to take social studies 10a and not learn the major ideas of a number of key European social theorists whose ideas have influenced the development of contemporary social thought.
100% take it, even if you don't really want to be social studies (I'm not). I think it's just material that everyone should know if they want to understand the world and be wholly educated.
So much reading. You don't necessarily have to read every single page, but you do have to have a solid grasp on all the concepts covered (which is hard, especially given the stylistic choices of the authors we read), or you'll look foolish in tutorial and on your papers.
As cliche as it is, this class has changed the way I think. It's a lot of work, but you will leave as a more rational, educated person. One of the best intellectual experiences I've had at Harvard.
lots of reading
This is a fantastic class and tutorial specifically offers you the incredible opportunity to work though this great material with a small group.
Social Studies 10A will be in part exactly what you expect it to be (long readings, insightful, you feel like a true-liberal arts student) but it will also be unexpectful in many ways (for me, this realization came in the form of the incredible conversations I had with my class and with my tutorial professor outside of class) Take it, you may regret it in the short run, but you will also love it. And the readings are doable, dont let people scare you!
This course provides a baptism by fire to some of the major texts that have influenced the social sciences and social thought. The workload is heavy, and wading through the passages to find the key points can be difficult. Lectures and tutorials are generally unrelated. Lectures can provide a helpful introduction or overview to the readings, but vary in clarity and sometimes are difficult to follow. Tutorials can be very interesting discussions and helpful at clarifying the readings, but also cover very dense philosophical ideas (which is not everyone's cup of tea).
This course is incredible. It will change the way you think, write, and interact with the world. Take it with the full intention of doing the readings well and engaging fully in lecture and section, otherwise you won't get everything you can out of it.
Social Studies 10a is a fantastic class. It is well-taught, based on interesting material, well-structured, and both challenging and doable. The professors are both fantastic and the tutors are passionate and committed to the class.
This class is not easy. But it is not impossible. For myself, the papers were unlike anything I had ever written before and took A TON of preparation, reading, thought, and analysis. I found lecture to be mildly interesting but somewhat useless. This class pushes you as an intellectual and the papers give you a chance to really get in depth with some of the most important authors you could read in this world. Sometimes found myself leaving tutorial utterly mindblown, which I found exciting and interesting. Overall, a manageable class that is 100% worth it.
I would recommend taking this to any sophomore with an inkling of interest in Social Studies; if you end up concentrating in Social Studies, it's a requirement/litmus test, and even if you don't, you will become a better writer and thinker. The two hour lectures were often tedious (I felt Tuck often focused on history to the detriment of talking about ideas, and also introduced advanced concepts without really explaining how he got there), but the tutorial component is amazing if you have a good tutor. The small, discussion-based tutorial with other dedicated students was one of my best college experiences yet. The reading load is heavy, but the books are things you feel like you should read in college anyway. So take the course.
Take this class if you're at all considering Social Studies. Take this class if you're not considering Social Studies but want a strong grounding in social theory that you might not get elsewhere. I'm not going on in Social Studies, but I'm already using what I've learned in 10a for other social sciences.
Although the reading can be a bit heavy at times, it is well worth it.
In no other class will you cover this much material in such short time. I would definitely not have read Kant, Hegel, Smith on my own. This class provided me with the support structure I needed to critically engage with the readings. A precaution: it's a lot of reading. You are reading 200-300 pages a week and if it's on the shorter side, it's probably denser material. You have to put in the effort for this class, as in do all the readings so you can fully participate in section. Also, lecture can get a tad bit hard to sit through, but an upperclassman gave me a piece of advice that I thought was particularly helpful. Drink a cup of coffee before class and just soak in Frazer/Tuck's geniuses.
It is a great course, but you will only like it if you do the readings. Lectures are only helpful the first hour. Sections are only good if you know what you are talking about! Read, Read, Read!
If you're interested in social theory, ethics, or simply want to be able to quote important names, this class is probably the best at Harvard. A challenging and rather theoretical course, but extremely informative and very well taught.
While lecture can seem irrelevant, having the chance to engage with these works, especially those toward the latter end of the class is amazing. Your tutor will make or break the experience.
This class will teach you to analyze theories of justice, of liberty, of government, and of social interaction. The ideas I learned through this course keep coming back to me, and they are no doubt useful to better understand world events.
The readings are pretty intimidating, but if you find an efficient way of absorbing the material, you'll be ok. Tutorial quality seems to vary. My tutor was great, but I have heard of students who had problems with their tutor.
This class is a great introduction to different political theorists. It is a lot of reading, but it was enjoyable to engage in all the ideas explored in the class.
One of the more though-provoking classes you'll find at Harvard
A good chance to read the great texts. It gives you enough room to explore your own interests and develop your own insights. Take advantage of it!
This course is a course that challenged me and pushed me academically unlike any other class before, but was completely worth it! I am so honored to say that I know have read (and understand a little bit of) some of the great theorists of all time! The tutorial system is great and I loved getting to know my housemates who were also grappling with these questions!
Obviously you have to take it to concentrate in social studies. For non-Social Studies concentrators, I'd say it's definitely a worthwhile academic experience, but only take it if you have the time and desire to really devote attention to it.
Necessary evil for the social studies student. Luckily there are only three papers assigned, which isn't a ton of work, but it's tough. Get ready to read.
Great course in learning about western theory.
This is a challenging and time consuming course, but it's also incredibly rewarding. The readings are fantastic, and if you put in the time you will get so much out of them. Everyone in tutorial really wants to be there, so the discussions are excellent, thought provoking, and sometimes make your head hurt. Don't take this course if you're not willing to put in significant time and effort, but definitely take it if you want to become a better writer, thinker, and student.
This class is very good opportunity to get acquainted with the classical social and political thinkers. It is useful for gaining an understanding of the heritage of our political, social and economic systems.
Even if you're not a Social Studies Concentrator, this class is pretty great -- Tuck and Frazer do a good job of stimulating discussion about the various authors, and overall the class operates as a good canon of great Western thinkers. If you wanted to read authors like Kant, Smith, Marx, etc and haven't done so yet, this is a pretty good introduction to their work.
Definitely take this class if you are interested in exploring the concentration. It is a lot of work as the materials are dense and some tutors intense, but I have found it to be very worth it. If you live in Adams House and get David, then don't be afraid of him. He is very into philosophy and will use advanced terms (just note them and look them up later).
This class is incredible. If you graduate college and you haven't read Marx, jokes on you--you actually didn't graduate.
This class will absolutely change your life. You will develop ideas about issues that you didn't even realized existed such as sovereign and morality.
If you are considering concentrating in social studies, definitely take this class. It is a ton of reading but it is very rewarding as you read some of the most important works of political and social theory ever written, so the things you learn will serve you well even in other humanities subjects.
absolutely necessary and powerful class- learn to think of life and the systems of the world in a more informed, grounded manner. It is like listening to music after gaining extensive music theory knowledge- everything can be interoperated in a foundational manner. also presents many new ways of looking at life, each with its own merits and faults
It is an amazing introduction to social theory. I feel like this is the kind of experience I expected to have at a liberal arts school over 4 years condensed into 1 year. Tutorial is really the gem of this course, but it can also be subjective based on your leader. The first semester can get rough because some of the authors are really dense, but you'll be able to think a lot more deeply about everything because of it.
Do not be fooled by Q-scores and peers, this course is amazing!  It may seem like a lot of reading, but done properly, it is possible to get through everything.  This course will open your mind to the wonderland of political philosophy, and will change the way you look at politics and the world.  Highly recommend!
If you are into social theory or wish to grasp a solid understanding of the fundamental social and political theories that have shaped philosophical thought for generations to come, this is the class for you.
This is an incredible course. The tutorials are the main component, lecture is much less important. The majority of the weight of the class is on the writing assignments, the rest is on class participation (mostly) in the tutorial. I learned more than I could imagine this semester, and gained a foundational understanding on how to argue about theory and write about theory. The lecture is lackluster, the first hour is basically a reading of wikipedia with a little bit of contextualization of the author within the greater construct of history of philosophy. Definitely attend all tutorials, and as many lectures as you feel necessary.
This class involves reading authors from Hobbes to Marx, and if you're concentrating in Social Studies, you have to take it. Lectures can be pretty boring but the really great part about this class is the tutorial component. If you can soldier through the lecture of the week and make it to tutorial, it's very worth it! Tutorials are no more than 8 students and they're a great place to have really engaging and fun discussions about the authors. They're the highlight of Social Studies 10. And in the end, you'll feel incredibly proud of yourself for having read all these authors and having engaged with them so thoroughly.
Although staying on top of the readings can be very challenging, the books are must-reads for students that are interested in gaining a better understanding of how intellectual thought has influenced the development of western institutions. I would encourage all students to take it.
This is class that in retrospect you will really appreciate. During the course though there will be times that you may feel extremely confused or challenged. The best way to handle the course is to do the readings in advance and then talk with professors and your tutorial leader. Everyone is willing to help if you reach out!
Do not spend the time doing all the readings that in depth if you don't have to...pick the ones you find most interesting and focus in on them.  Some units drag and others are much more interesting, so just be sure to really engage with the material you find interesting.  Participate in section; lectures are not mandatory but are quite helpful despite not being the most interesting.
This class is outstanding. I am leaving one semester with a clear picture of a wide range of authors and a good understanding of the social theory discussion in the western tradition. The readings are outstanding, and the small tutorials are great (if you come prepared, that is).
Your tutor is your experience.
It is one of the most fulfilling classes I have ever taken. It can be very hard, but it's one of the few classes that I have taken that actually really caused me to think and taught me more about how to be a thinker.
This course is very interesting and thought provoking. People will tell you it's a lot of work because of all the readings; this is true. Do them, you'll learn a lot!
You really do need to have an interest in the social sciences and be willing to dedicate much time to reading
If you are considering concentrating in Social Studies as I was, this is a must take class, and I enjoyed reading these works immensely. But if you are not interested in Social Studies, or in thinking about society, history, and politics with an eye towards theorizing, this is probably not for you at all.
Hella readIng
This is the perfect theory course, and one of the best classes - if not the best - class I've taken at Harvard. We read a string of brilliant and insightful authors whose views have shaped our world. Tuck, Frazer, and the rest of the teaching staff teach the material brilliantly, and tutorial generates great new insights. The readings are demanding and take a lot of time to read well, but if you put the time in, you will have an insightful and enjoyable experience and come out with a great understanding of some of the best and most interesting ideas anyone in recorded history has ever had.
Very much worth the time and effort required to succeed in this class
Only take this course if you like theory or plan to concentrate in Social Studies. And if you're enrolled in the class and after a couple of weeks still don't like theory, don't think that you will. Just be completely honest with yourself. There is sooooo much reading. The only good part is the section leaders because they really do love what they teach and are super accessible to students.
