A good complement to the thinkers dealt with in social studies 10, but a reasonably strong background in India would help
If you can take this with Prof. Mehta, take it. There is no one who know's India quite like him, and he is an excellent instructor.
This course was absolutely incredible. The extent of Prof. Mehta's knowledge is awe-inspiring. His ability to lead discussion, bringing out nuances and complexities where needed, while yet permitting students to guide the discussion based on their own interests and perspectives, is rare. The content of the course, late 19th century to mid-20th century Indian political theory, was incredible. The syllabus was constructed with a tremendous degree of care, and Prof. Mehta was always flexible to accommodate readings which matched our interests. I have nothing but praise for Prof. Mehta and this course. This has been one of the highlights of my Harvard experience. If Prof. Mehta is back at Harvard teaching this course,  take this course at any cost; you will thank yourself for many years to come.
This class exposes you to thinkers outside the Western world, and is great for doing that. At the same time, it really lacks structure so keep that in mind.
This class was really fantastic; it's such a pity it won't be offered in future years. Professor Mehta seemed to know pretty much everything about everything. Even when we spoke casually before or after class, he always got us to think in new and interesting ways. Also, this class had no 'busy work' like response papers or 'blog posts' - he commanded our respect so strongly that we all did the readings and were prepared for discussions without him needing to resort to those things. The readings were slightly frustrating at the beginning, and I think we could have perhaps eliminated Aurobindo, but the class really gathered momentum as it progressed. This was a really interesting time to take this class, given the debates surrounding the idea of India, and I hope Professor Mehta returns at some point in the future.
