Professor Levitsky is an incredible teacher. Regardless of your experience with/knowledge of Latin America, you should seize the opportunity to take a seminar with him if you can.
I really enjoyed this class, and it's a must if you're interested in Latin America (or even social movements) at all. Professor Levitsky is one of the best professors at Harvard, and discussions were always really interesting. However, this recommendation comes with a caveat: this class is a lot of reading and a lot of work, so if you're not interested in the subject matter to begin with it might be a bit overwhelming.
It's tough, but one of the best courses you'll take at Harvard with the expert on Latin America and comparative politics.
This class has a ton of reading but you will learn a lot
A great seminar for anyone thinking about writing a thesis on Latin America and discussing issues with Levitsky for 2 hours every week.
Amazing class, Levitsky is every bit the man you think he is. If reading 300 pages a week, and really actually reading it, is daunting to you, then this class will be challenging. He expects a lot from his students, but so worth it.
This is my favorite course that I have taken at Harvard. Professor Levitsky is a terrific moderator of discussion (if only a little intimidating a time due to all his accomplishments) and everyone in the class was genuinely interested in the material. There was rarely dead time in discussion. It's not a class you can get away with not doing the readings for, and there are a lot of them, so allocate sufficient time in your schedule. But absolutely take it if you get the chance!
Levitsky's dedication to his topics and his students really show up in this class. Working this close with him is a joy, but don't take this class if you're lazy. It's a ton of reading and you really have to be prepared for class. There are also two short papers and the usual final paper.
This class was great, largely because of Professor Levitsky.  However, it was much more of a gov/political science class than Social Studies.  Most of the reading is exclusively political science. The readings are interesting, the papers are not too tough, and the discussions are interesting.  If you are at all interested in Latin America, social movements, or collective action theory, this is a fantastic class.  I would recommend being very self-motivated and starting on your final paper early even though the prospectus is not due until relatively late.
This was a fantastic course. It gives you a grounding in thinking about collective action and its history in Latin America. Steven Levitsky is an amazing professor to take a seminar with. He both leads great discussions and adds a lot of value to the topics.
Being in a tutorial with Professor Levitsky was an amazing experience. If you have an interest in Latin America, this is the tutorial for you. Substantially more work than the other tutorials (at least I think), but you definitely have that understanding going into it. It felt very different from the expectation of other social studies tutorials (whether that is good or bad) in that the final research paper is largely ignored until basically three weeks before it is due. All in all, one of my most inspiring academic experiences at Harvard to date.
It's really interesting material, but I highly recommend thinking twice about taking this course unless you have a background in Latin American politics.  There is, of course, tons of reading, but it's not particularly linear so piecing the story together is tough if you don't already have an idea of the bigger picture.
This is an amazing class taught by one of the GREATEST PROFESSORS AT HARVARD. Prof. Levitsky is not only the greatest discussion leader I've ever encountered, he's also extremely approachable. Yes, there is an insane amount of reading (like in all of Prof. Levitsky's classes) but it all fits together so perfectly. As you move from one reading to the next, you understand why it had to be included in the syllabus - the complete set of readings for each week give you a very thorough understanding on the academic discussion surrounding each topic.
This class is, as is fairly obvious, the absolute pinacle of the Harvard academic experience. It doesn't get any better. I really can't speak highly enough of it. Professor Levitsky is not only, no joke, cited in nearly every reading in the course, he is also a truly gifted teacher and section leader who is willing to go out of his way to make sure you're getting what you need to out of the course. HOWEVER, my one recommendation is that you only take this course (should you be lucky enough for it to be offered again) if you have a genuine interest in Latin America and Latin American politics. Don't just take it because it's Levitsky. Not that you wouldn't have a spectacular time anyway. It's just you might be taking one of precious few spots away from someone for whom this would be a central part of their concentration and Harvard experience.
Levitsky is phenomenal, by far the best professor I have had.  I would make sure that you are actually interested in the material though since there is a lot of readings and if you don't do them, the class becomes much less interesting
