This class is very heavy on gender theory. If you are not very interested in feminist theory, don't take this class. Meghan is really nice and helpful with the final paper, but the emphasis of the discussions and readings is more on feminist theory and methods than on the issues themselves.
really prepares you well for thesis-writing, definitely one of the best tutorials, and Meghan is extremely invested in her students and gives amazing feedback. even if feminism is not your area of interest, you can still write a final paper that relates to your topic, and I definitely recommend this tutorial
Meghan gives very concrete and precise feedback for how to improve your work, so there are no guessing games, and you learn a lot about your writing. She also is very conscious of how this paper informs the senior thesis!
This course is a great Junior Tutorial. You will feel incredibly supported for Meghan, especially if you reach out and are honest with her. If you are interested in writing your thesis on gender/developing countries, it will expand your thought!
Amazing tutorial!!
If you're interested in a historical approach to gender and development, especially in an African or South Asian context, I would recommend this course. If you regional focus is outside Africa or you're interested in using other methodologies, I would talk to Meghan and consider whether it will be the best fit for you. But it's a great course and you should try to make it work.
This is an amazing tutorial! The focus on gender, development and how the two relate is really good.. The first few weeks give you a great foundation on which to build for the rest of the semester. The topics segue into each other really well. And Meghan is just great! Discussions are pretty lively if you make them. An overall excellent tutorial!
Jocelyn is a great person to have in your camp.  She makes this course interesting and is really passionate about the information you cover.  As for content, if you're interested in working to change the world for the better, you can't help but find this material interesting and important.  Gender, women, feminism(s), and global social justice is pretty awesome.  Jocelyn is also really helpful when it comes to thesis advice and assistance and makes sure to put a lot of that content in the class.
An amazing course with a great professor - take it. I have rarely taken a course so satisfying.
Don't take this class if you are not a Social Studies concentrator/are not planning to write a thesis.
Whether or not you are planning on writing a gender or development thesis, this class provides an invaluable introduction to research methods and processes with a professor who fosters an inclusive and positive discussion environment.
This class was wonderful. It introduces students to a wide range of ideas on gender and development. The reading load is very fair and interesting. Class discussion always centered around ideas and debates that seemed to really matter to the world around us. Jocelyn is a fabulous teacher who prepares students in every way to write a good thesis and offers lots of helpful advice on an individual basis.
Meet with Jocelyn as many times throughout the semester as possible. She is very helpful in the writing process and will always makes herself available
The tutorial had a great topic but one must be sure to be interested in methodology and a sociological approach to really enjoy this class.
For any social studies concentrators interested in gender issues, this is the class for you.
If you're looking to have a close, comfortable, and fruitful relationship with a accomplished-professor, this is the class for you.  You are treated as a peer whose contributions are appreciated.
This is one of the best courses I have ever taken! As a junior tutorial I felt so lucky to be in this course. The course material was amazing and allowed for some of the most engaging discussions I have ever had at Harvard.
Meghan is amazing, but unfortunately she won't be teaching this class next year, so it is hard to recommend if she won't be teaching it. This tutorial made me feel very prepared to write a thesis. We broke down writing the big final paper into smaller parts, which made it feel much more manageable. We also had incredible discussions about race, gender, power relations, all those good social studies ideas that really made me think about things in a different way.
best junior tutorial in the social studies department.
I have never had one class affect the way I think about the world AND the way I speak on a day to day basis so much. The level of discussion in class was always high and Meghan pushed us to think beyond the readings--which, notably, were extremely well chosen. Also, her vocabulary improved my vocabulary, which I always appreciate. There was not one reading where I was left questioning, "Why on earth did the professor assign this?" They were all noticeably interconnected, relevant, and highly interesting. I looked forward to building on them in class each week. I encourage all social studies concentrators--ESPECIALLY males--to take this class; it will broaden your horizons and allow you to discover theories and knowledge hiding right under your nose that you (males) are currently (probably) oblivious to.
This class is PERFECTION. After taking this, you will definitely be prepared to write a thesis! My thesis will not be on this topic, but I learned how to break down a thesis into a manageable process and how to do research properly. Meghan is intentional about building a relationship with all of her students and supporting them in their academic and personal endeavors. She gives wonderful feedback on assignments that helps to make you into a better writer. I felt that this class set me up for success because I got a step-by-step breakdown of the thesis writing process, in contrast to some other tutorials out there that don't provide as much structure. Take this class if you're even vaguely interested in gender, are serious about getting experience doing historical/ethnographical research, want to think critically about development, or are uncertain about your thesis topic but want a structured tutorial where you learn how to do social studies research. This is one of the best decisions I've made course-wise here at Harvard!
