The material covered is great and the professor knows a lot! However, lectures often seemed repetitive and the Professor frequently went off on tangents and the lecture lost structure so you ended up swimming in a pool of information. It got better in the latter part of the semester though.
If you have even a casual interest in the era and subject, absolutely take this class. Incredible survey course. Thought provoking and engaging. Totally reasonable workload, and very knowledgeable (and kind!) Professor and TF. If Kathryn comes back to TF, you are in for a treat. I looked forward to her section every week -- I know...have you ever heard that said about any section before? All around amazing class.
The course generated significant enthusiasm for the subject matter. Being taught by such an incredibly established professor was very rewarding.
This was a solid class, and I felt like I learnt a ton. Professor Fahmy is great, an it really is amazing to have the opportunity to learn from such an esteemed Professor. Him casually dropping into conversation at the start of class that he might not be able to return to Egypt for something he wrote demonstrates this man's prestige. Would recommend taking his class in the spring, be warned it is graduate student heavy because of Prof. Fahmy, and it feels as though he focuses more on them. That being said he is always available, and Kathryn is absolutely fantastic, a wonderful TF. Only other warning is the midterm paper prompt was very, very vague. Plan ahead and make sure to speak to the teaching staff beforehand to make sure you're on the right track. If this class ever runs again, be warned, it's more 600-1945 than 1750-1914, but that's not a bad thing.
An excellent course instructed by a seminal historian and scholar of the Middle East
Professor Fahmy is so easy to listen to. He has a calming charisma that emanates well thought out ideas. He is always genuine with what he puts forth in class and wants us to question the validity of the analyses given to us. Will take his class next semester as well!
Fahmy is an expert in his field. His lectures were very interesting.
This course provides an excellent look at how the history of the Middle East shapes the region today. Professor Fahmy is a very engaging lecturer, really a great storyteller.
Lots of work but absolutely worth it - gives you the critical tools to understanding the Arab world.
I learned a tremendous amount of history, but more than that, I learned quite a bit about historiography and how history is influenced by perception (esp. East vs West).
