The subject sounds really interesting, but the lectures were pretty dense and hard to follow.  Professor Jewett seemed to be reading the lectures rather than speaking from personal knowledge.  Buy a book instead.
Jewett is a good lecturer, there's a lot of reading and it's sometimes a bit random/you have to go to lecture to know what's going on, interesting and relevant though.
This is an awesome class. Professor Jewett is an AMAZING lecturer. Definitely take the class, but try to get one of the good TFs, because not all TFs are created equal.
It's an intellectual history course.
Make sure to keep up with the readings! The fact that it did not have a midterm test made me slack in keeping up and I definitely regretted it when it came time  for the final
This is not a very interesting or well-taught class, but with hardly any effort (no lecture attendance, no reading) I was able to to do decently well.
Take it if you're interested in debates surrounding the deployment and interpretation of science in American public life. Be prepared to mingle with a lot of sciency-types.
It is not difficult to do well in this course as long as you keep up with the readings. Jewett is a great lecturer and truly brings the material alive, peppering history with stories that you'll be hard-pressed to find on Wikipedia.
The lectures are dense. Keep on top of the readings, they are crucial for papers/exams.
Loved every minute of it. Highly highly recommended.
The lectures were miserable, because they were read and hard to follow. Everything else about the course was above par, but the lectures were so central that their flaws made the course a whole lot worse.
REally cool material, and Jewett is super cool!Just be prepared to tackle some difficult readings.
The papers for this class were good, as were many of the lectures. The content was confusing and studying for the final was a nightmare
This class is so much fun! Many of the weeks aren't what you would expect from the title of the class - e.g. there is a lot of material on social sciences like psychology and economics - but you will enjoy most weeks anyway if you approach them with an open mind. The essays are actually fun to write, the readings are interesting (and he highlights just the parts you need to read, so they're always manageable AND relevant), and Prof. Jewett is awesome. Take this class!
The material can be interesting but there is definitely some variations. After some lectures I wanted to find out more (later ones especially) while there were some that could not hold my interest. The work load is pretty light with only a few short readings weekly and three short papers over the semester.
Fascinating course with a low workload. It challenges you to think, but without the pressure found in a different humanities course where everyone is an expert writer and humanities concentrator.
Wonderful professor; engaging material; highly relevant to the world today and debates you'd engage in outside of class about the role of religion vs science in modern culture.
excellent readings about very interesting topics spanning religion, science, academia and public culture; taught by a very knowledgeable and engaged professor, who cares about the students; generally a reasonable reading load with useful, not intrusive, highlighting of the most relevant parts of the reading - you can get away with just reading the highlights; focused on concepts and general trends, but filled with interesting and exciting detail that gives a richness and intricacy
This is a good, not great, survey course of American history that fulfills two gen eds you probably need.
Pretty easy class with interesting reading and cool TFs.
Well taught with interesting material, this course gives you an opportunity to explore the interactions between science and religion in the political, social, educational, and economic sphere.  You get to see how Harvard played a role in shaping the relationship between science and religion, in addition to how religion and science impacts us today.
Great material and really interesting readings and sections. Lectures have a lot of information though, and you need to be very good at note-taking!
Science and religion was a great lens with which to look at American history. I would recommend the course if you are interested in either.
An interesting, fairly easy class that will actually make you consider, and even challenge, your views on science and religion.  I think all students, regardless of their involvement in science or religion, would learn new things, and gain perspectives from their classmates
Highly recommended for Religion concentrators seeking an easy class.
My perspective on religion definitely matured by taking this class.  It's an excellent course to force you to defend your own views, no matter what they are.
The class is heavy on regurgitation of material, as in "what did this author think?" It's light on actual analysis or critical thinking about the issues under consideration. It also sometimes seem to jump randomly from topic to topic. The individual topics themselves are often pretty interesting, though, and lectures are delivered very well.
This class was a wonderful way to integrate the two disciplines and Professor Jewett is incredible.
This course is worth it if you put in work into it. The lectures contain a lot of information and if you start losing track of it you will get lost quickly!
It is very thorough and always engaging.  By covering a vast amount of material, the lectures and sections are always kept interesting.
3 papers and an easy final (ids and essay). definitely weighted a bit toward history as opposed to philosophy, but the papers provided a good medium to think a bit about the philosophy a bit more on your own, which was often quite interesting. didn't do any of the readings except the ones required to write papers and did just fine in the course. not the easiest of classes, but if you can bang out a 5 page paper in a couple hours this is a good option.
Good way to knock out a Gen-Ed, if you're at all interested in the subject matter. The lectures were generally compelling; interesting, relevant anecdotes. Some of the material in the middle regarding the social sciences and psychology of religion was a bit hard to decipher.
Participate in sections--the discussions are great!
Please don't take this class if (God forbid) it is taught again in the future. It's essentially an opportunity for a professor to preach his subjective interpretation of the relationship between "science" and "religion" over America's history, with a large focus on Harvard. I really didn't learn anything, and it sucked.
Don't expect too much.
It is a fair amount of reading, but it is usually pretty interesting. You get a really strong understanding of the general relationship between science and religion in America.
this class is very interesting in the beginning and the end, but it looses some steam in the middle. Overall, it is a good way to learn about the basis of value and truth claims in American public culture and explains the build up to todays sharp religious divides in contemporary politics.
Don't get behind on readings.
Very interesting subject and lectures; a unique course that lets you read a variety of primary sources in a more structured environment.
This course teaches (very well) you exactly what its title proposes: Science and Religion in American Public Culture.
The reading is very interesting.
It's a great class and an incredible way to fulfill a Gen Ed. The workload was so fair and the assignments were actually enjoyable. The material is also really interesting, and Professor Jewett clearly put in so much time and energy to prepare his lectures and make sure that the course was manageable. He also highlighted what was important in the readings so we didn't waste our time, which was greatly appreciated.
Do the reading
I think that this course is really interesting. There is a lot of reading, and you need to attend lecture to figure out what is going on.
It is a very interesting gen-ed class that I would recommend for anyone interested in philosophy, religion and science. Make sure to come to lecture because that is the only real source of information in this class.
This is a wonderful course relating science and religion in American public culture.  It helped explain current cultural events and how the interaction between science and religion has progressed over the years.
I did not enjoy this course nearly as much as I thought I would.  As someone who has always been interested in the science/religion conflict, I expected to love this class, but I didn't.  Instead, I found the course to be rather dull.  Lectures are merely the professor reading from his notes.  The workload is not bad (daily readings and three short papers), but it is not exciting either.  This course took something that really interested me and turned it into something that I found incredibly boring.  I had hoped that we would have more debate about the issues themselves and explore the viewpoints of various religions on certain issues.  Instead, we approached the issues form a solely historical perspective.  We merely discussed what happened, not the merits of the issues.
It's okay.  My favorite portions of the course were the first third and the last third, but the second third was kind of boring.  There are better courses to take and there are worse courses to take.  It's not terrible, but it's not the type of course that made me excited to wake up in the morning.  However, I would give it the benefit of the doubt because it was the first year the course was offered and it was not a bad beginning.  Shop it and compare it to your other options, it might end up being your type of class.
Challenging course where the relationship between science and religion as intellectual topics will be discussed.
If you are interested in the subject matter, than this course is really interesting. It also it a great way to satisfy your Gen Ed requirements if you are a science concentrator. However, its not the most engaging course you can take.
This course is a little strange. You start in media res with the Scopes trial, circle back to early American history, and then progress to contemporary society. Furthermore, the readings are primary sources related to the lectures, and sometimes only connect tangentially (well, maybe a little more than tangentially). All of this together makes it difficult to piece together a coherent account at times; however, if you stick with it and put in enough work, connections start to become apparent. It was very edifying to go back and skim the readings while studying for the exam, as the context was much clearer. Overall, a decent course (especially for Gen Ed): the lectures are interesting, the readings can be interesting, and section produced some good discussion. However, I did find section policies a little draconian (300 word response every week, additional 500 word responses for a missed section), although perhaps that is necessary in order to compel people to work in a Gen Ed class...
This class is an excellent way to fulfill the requirement for US in the world.  It has a decent amount of reading, but efforts are made it make it more manageable and the amount of primary sources make it quite engaging.  Start mapping out a timeline from the beginning of class though as it jumps around a lot.
A solid course that leaves you with a solid body of knowledge about the interplay between science, religion, politics, education, and public culture in the US. Useful and relevant things to know. Readings were dry and authored nearly exclusively by dead white men, thought definitely manageable in length. Lectures were consistently interesting, and Prof Jewett is great.
An interesting and well-taught class. Definitely learned a lot about the topic. Good level of work for a Gen Ed.  Professor Jewett gives you the terms that will be relevant for the final exam at the beginning of each class, so be sure to take notes on these during lecture. It'll make studying for the final much easier.
This is an interesting course in terms of the material that is covered. Prof Jewett is a good lecturer and presents the material well.
This is a very interesting history class that examines some big questions about the roles of science and religion in the United States throughout history and today. The readings can be long but are usually engaging, and the important parts are highlighted. This is not a difficult class, but it is a good one.
I ended up just not being that interested in the course, but it isn't a particularly easy gen ed. Final, 3 essays, and response papers every week. The reading aren't particularly easy to get through, and although they highlight the parts you are supposed to focus on there is a lot of sheer volume for a gen ed. Not terrible, but there are certainly lower work options if you have to take something you aren't that into.
AVOID THIS CLASS! the first 2 lecturers on scopes aren't bad, you might be interested to know that christian fundamentalism is narrowly defined, BUT THEN leave this class!! Take a real philosophy class or the Darwinian Revolution. This class takes lots of subjects that are generally horrible, a few people were interesting (The pragmatists), but don't worry the discussion of them is butchered too. Nothing good will come of this class, even the paper topics are hilariously awful.
This class makes you think in new ways about the society we live in today -- were it came from, how it fits into a much larger historical context. I recommend this class to anyone who is looking to learn more about the country's history, and/or interested in the intersection between science and religion.
This is a great class overall, but sometimes the lectures or readings are a little dry. Most of the readings in this class are primary sources written directly by the people we are learning about in the lectures. The sections were also enjoyable (but this could depend on your TF).
This is the quintessential Harvard course. Take this course if you can when it's offered! Great way to fulfill a gen ed. Professor Jewett's lectures are engaging, the readings are interesting, and the assignments are thought-provoking, but not that hard and fun to complete. The first paper asked us to write a stump speech from the perspective of a candidate for the presidency whom we invented. The third paper asked us for our own opinion what the relationship between science, religion, and politics should be in the US. 
As a CS concentrator with no history background at all beyond high school AP US History, I was worried that this course was going to be inaccessible; my worries were completely unfounded. I learned so much about the interplay between science and from the nation's founding until the present day, and I was really surprised by a lot of what I learned. This course's interdisciplinary nature is what makes it accessible and interesting to so many different people with so many different backgrounds; I often found myself engaged in debate with my classmates about the merits of different work we read, and we often carried our conversations from sections while leaving section.
My only knock is that the readings can at times get quite long, and it's possible to get by during the semester without reading most of them in any sort of detail. I strongly discourage doing this though, as the readings are what enable you to really understand the arguments and the people behind what you learn about in lecture. Also, it's necessary to have a good grasp on the readings for the final exam, which is very reasonable if you spend the time preparing for IDs and did all of the readings.
Colin Bossen was a great TF, although I heard generally favorable things about the others as well.
The class is very very low workload straight up until the final. Because there are no midterms, it becomes very easy to not really do any of the readings along the way or only read the amount necessary to get through section response papers. My recommendation, if you're not going to read would be to take really really good notes in class because the lectures are also not online or in an annotated form after the class so if you didn't pay attention in class that's basically it.
Lectures and assignments focus too much on the 'American History' and not enough on the 'Science and Religion'. The readings are interesting.
This class is very easy, but very unstructured. The readings are not too long or difficult, and they are highlighted so you are only responsible for the marked sections. The topic is interesting enough, but you will be in charge of keeping up your own enthusiasm, which can be difficult after the first few lectures. The papers are not very difficult, and the final is very manageable, as you receive all of the possible IDs before the test. Section varies greatly, and that can really affect your class experience and how deeply you engage with the material.
This was a fascinating class with course material that makes you think and question the basis of American society. Professor Jewett is an excellent lecturer, and he always brings in interesting stories that pertain to the lecture's subject that actually help you remember the real course material. The course itself is well-organized with exactly 25 lectures and set topics for each. History and science students both will love this course.
Primary readings only - sections OK - not much science involved, mostly religion and society in American history. Mostly old history.
Interesting material, but a decent amount of reading some weeks for a gen ed.  There are easier ones, but this class is probably worth the time.
The class was pretty interesting, but I made the mistake of taking it in a semester during which I had a lot of other work more important for my intended concentration.  The class was fine, and if you have the time to devote to all the readings I would suggest you take it, but if you know you're going to be stressed or pressed to finish other things then I would wait.
HIST 1445 was a great introduction into American religious thought, particularly with how Professor Jewett juxtaposes it to science and government. Excellent class -- really brought many difficult moral questions that I had thought about to the fore, where we discussed them, their origins, and the different groups that support different positions.
The professor is a good guy, and if you enjoy this subject matter you'll enjoy the class.
Take this class to hear a very interesting, unique and polished story of religion and science in American history. Prof. Jewett is a phenomenal lecturer and really brings his expertise and enthusiasm to class every day. TFs are knowledgeable and committed, readings can get heavy in some weeks but are by and large very interesting, essay prompts are very fun and give you a lot of freedom to explore things you like in the class. I went in with literally zero background in American history or religion and learned quite a bit. Highly recommend this as a way for non-Americans to satisfy US&W.
This is a solid gen ed with a really interesting topic. It's not an easy gen ed, but come out with a good understanding of the interplay of science and religion in US history. Go to lecture; there is no way to get the material from lecture that's not in the readings unless you go. The essays are graded fairly strictly, but the final is straight forward.
Difficulty varies greatly with section
Excellent and very informative class.
The class was fine. Definitely not as good as the Q scores from last year said. Lectures were often pretty boring, although Jewett seems to be pretty cool. Section was awful and the feedback I got for my assignments never matched with the grade that I ended up getting. I wouldn't recommend this class, unfortunately.
The course is an incredibly interesting and challenging study of the academic history in our country surrounding science and religion. Lectures are hit or miss, some cover topics that are really interesting (evolution, eugenics, specific lectures about Harvard...) while others are very hard to understand. The work isn't bad. 3 essays 5 pages each felt reasonable, but often the short size was very limiting.
This isn't an easy GenEd by any means, but it covers some really interesting things. Readings aren't that bad - about 50-80 pages a week. It covers a lot of interesting philosophies; you might want to think of it more of a philosophy course that integrates history than a history course in its own right.
The beginning and ending thirds were good. The middle third went pretty deep into intellectual philosophy which isn't really advertised in the course description. The readings for that section of the course are really dense and difficult. Overall the reading load was much less than it could have been thanks to Professor Jewett highlighting what we were responsible for in all the readings. There is definitely a minimal time commitment so it's a good class to balance the harder more work intensive ones. Your life will be a lot easier if you just read the reading when it is assigned. It is very doable and you will regret it come paper and final time if you don't.
It felt somewhat scattered, we covered a lot of topics, but jumped from one to the next.
This class was superb in almost every way.  The lectures and readings were engaging, profound, and flow smoothly from one to the next.  If you have any interest in how religion has shaped the scientific, intellectual, and cultural development of America, you owe it to yourself to take this class.
This class says it presents many different ways people have thought about science and religion throughout American history. It does this, and absolutely nothing else. Beliefs are barely, if at all, contextualized, and never critiqued. The teaching is uninspired, and all of the historical connections or critiques that might have made this class interesting are left untouched. As a result, this class is uninteresting.
I have mixed feelings about the class. The first two weeks or so were great, and I was super engaged. However, there is no coherence to the course. As the semester goes on, it feels like more and more separate lectures on topics related either to religion, or science, or politics. Some of the lectures are fascinating, and some not so much. There weren't many parts of the course that I actively disliked, but there also weren't an abundance of times when I came away thoroughly satisfied.
This course is what I've always wanted a general education class to be. It's works well even with having other more challenging courses, and this course is very interesting and compelling in itself.
Do the readings
This is an intellectual history course where you mostly read abstract philosophy about religion's role in psychology. The readings get progressively more dense. Many people I talked to felt tricked by the first few weeks into taking an intellectual history course.
This is a pretty good class, and you walk away with some good material to know.  It covers a lot of ground, which is both good and bad (you often feel like you're cramming and not really getting into the material at hand because you have to move on).  At the end of the day, it's really a philosophy class, so that's something to definitely to consider.  Not really history, but philosophy.
This class was very poorly organized. While it has the capacity to be very interesting, Jewett's lectures are incredibly difficult to follow and it is hard to see how they connect between each other and to the readings.
Easy but in no way engaging
HIST 1445 is an interesting twist on American history with emphasis on science and religion. The readings were often very engaging, although expect to read a lot of primary sources. On that note, the reading assignments and essays were very manageable, although I would say that it was hard to get a stellar grade. In hindsight while studying for finals, I realized that we have covered a lot of topics and many interesting connections could be made with each of the readings and thinkers/activists. Keep up with the readings and constantly review, and you will be in good shape.
HIST 1445 was an interesting course and I enjoyed learning the material. However, because there is no midterm, I would encourage future students to actually keep up with the material so as to not ruin themselves for the final. It would be useful to have a pretty comprehensive understanding of US history - the major movements and events. The teaching staff can take this knowledge for granted, and it adds extra work if you are not familiar with these terms and concepts already.
Overall, this was a good course. It got me to think a lot about religion, both in terms of how it has functioned in American society previously as well as my own life.  The assignments are a bit non-standard, which makes them more fun to complete.  Professor Jewett obviously enjoys teaching and has an engaging lecture style.  Some of the material from the middle 1/3 of the class is a bit dry, but the rest is quite engaging.
TAKE IT!!! Jewett is one of the best lecturers you will ever have.

Especially take it if you are a science person, it made me think a lot more about the cultural, political, and ethical implications of science.
Not very difficult, sometimes interesting, but not as engaging or useful as I had hoped.
Go to lecture, take good notes. It might seem like you can skip it, but it'll make your life easier when writing essays or studying for the final.
This class starts off pretty interesting and actually ended interesting, but the middle was painful to get through. Professor Jewett seems really nice, and the first few lectures give a really interesting overview of science and religion in America (leading up to Darwinism), and then the class turns into intellectual history where we were pounded with 80 pages of philosophy that made no sense every single week. The assignments aren't long but they're odd and confusing, and it was often difficult to tell what the TFs wanted you to produce. It also definitely seemed like your TF significantly affected the type of grades you got in the course, especially since my TF (Colin) decided that he was going to give everyone worse grades with each subsequent paper. Overall, unless you're really interested in the development of the social sciences in America, I wouldn't recommend it.
The course readings and lectures are individually interesting, yet do not combine to form a cohesive, understandable body of knowledge.
Neither the best nor the worst course I've taken at Harvard, I still can't help but think it was a bit of a disappointment. The material and subject matter are very interesting, but the course has trouble pulling everything together into something comprehensible and coherent. Even the longest readings aren't all that long, so keep up with them (and take notes) or else the exam will be unpleasant (you aren't held responsible for much until the bitter end).
I thought this class was really interesting for the most part, although it wasn't always what I had been expecting. If you're looking for a class that focuses solely on the interaction between religion and science, you'll really enjoy the first part of the course (as I did), but then you might be a little bit disappointed as the course transitions into more of a discussion of the role of religion in the American public sphere. Professor Jewett is a decent lecturer, but some of his lectures were fairly dry, and they often move quickly so it's easy to miss important details. Two of the essay assignments were sort of weird, but they were all definitely manageable.
Go to lecture. Jewett may have a slightly dry lecturing style, but the material becomes increasingly interesting.
The material we covered in this course was interesting. However, it would have been better named "Science and Christianity" - we did not talk very much about any non-Christian religion. The final exam seems daunting but is actually manageable. Some of the readings are interesting, some are harder to understand. If you pay attention in lecture and study well though you will come out with a lot of knowledge about the material.
at times boring but overall worth it. very easy
If you like science, religion, and politics, you will love this course. The assignments are manageable and the papers are interesting. If you aren't extremely into politics, some parts of this course will drag on a bit.
Lecture is awesome and engaging.  The readings can get very dull, very quickly, and can be hefty some weeks.  Papers are not hard and have interesting prompts.  Section, for me, was unsatisfactory and a chore.
This course is a unique opportunity to look at this country in a way that we don't often talk about. You will definitely understand more about current events and problems in this country after taking this course.
This is a pretty good class; the readings are interesting, and lectures are, as well. A vast amount of very different ideas are thrown at you, and not all of them are able to stick easily.
This is a good way to fulfill the USW requirement through a class that is probably a bit more engaging than your average gen ed. We covered a great deal of material, and while it felt fast at times, it was great to get such a broad background in the topic. Reading was not overwhelming, and we got to study some interesting primary sources. The topic was also very interesting, especially given its continued relevance in American culture and institutions
Section is weak but interesting topic
This is a nice Gen Ed to take that is not too time consuming.
This course fulfilled everything I hoped it would. It was an interesting exploration into a topic I was previously unfamiliar with but wanted to learn more about. The readings were very interesting and manageable. I do think that the section component of the course needs to be rethought though due to the size increase.
The material is super interesting, and I would say it is a nice way of fulfilling USW/CB requirement. Make sure you keep track of the IDs throughout the semester though, or it will be a (slight) pain at the end of the semester.
Great class with excellent lectures. Lots of philosophy and very heavy on intellectual history, so be prepared for that.
Great class but sometimes hard to follow.
This class was a really cool way of looking at American history. I took this as a gen-ed not really knowing what to expect with a class about religion and science, but it was really cool. It ended up being a lot about politics and religion and science, but it really gives you an clear overall picture of America's changing views on religion and government in the context of the scientific developments of the last 200 years. I think a course with this kind of angle most definitely makes you a better citizen. Logistically on a day to day level, it was pretty painless. There were about 5 20 page readings a week and 3 papers and a final exam. The grading seems like it was based on your TF but  generally fair. The final exam was also fair and very helpful for that overall perspective. Jewett was a fine lecturer and was pretty enthusiastic.
great survey of american political history of religion
This course was great. I did not attend lecture at all during the semester, which I feel may be a disadvantage on the exam, but only section readings were really required for the 3 essays. I loved the readings, they were really interesting. I'm a psych major so I wasn't used to reading historical writings, but I still enjoyed the course nonetheless. Mainly because I am interested in religion & society, but this was my first history course in college, and my first course on religion. My TF, John Gee, was great and really helped make this course awesome.
The title of the course is somewhat misleading: the emphasis is almost entirely on American intellectual and political thought. Also, as a (hard) science concentrator, I was surprised by the heavy emphasis on the social sciences (was expecting only bio/chem/physics for some reason). The emphasis on primary readings was also VERY heavy. That said, I now have a much better understanding of the strains of religious thought underlying and behind current and historical american politics. For example, when I took APUSH in high school, I never understood why nativism was a thing in early C19 America (it just seemed like really rude and racist xenophobia). But now, I realize that nativism was driven largely by anti-Catholic sentiment, which stemmed largely from Protestant fears that Catholics would be loyal to the Pope and undermine the free thought considered necessary for American democracy.
Prof. Jewett is a great lecturer and the teaching staff cares a lot about the course. The expectations on the first assignment were not well communicated and thus the grading felt a bit arbitrary, but on the whole it was a good course and the readings were engaging.
This is a great class if you are interested in religion in American history, and especially the way religion and science have interacted in the past. I thought this was a really great course. It is not the lightest Gen Ed in terms of workload, but I found it very rewarding. You are forced to grapple with some of the biggest questions in life, and read about how earlier (and more recent) thinkers tried to answer those questions. I think thiat is something everyone should have to do, and this is a great way to get yourself to think about some of these big ideas.
There are a bunch of readings, but the relevant parts are highlighted, Jewett is a really good lecturer, and sometimes the story is a bit hard to follow.  Overall, a great but not excellent course.
The best gen ed of the 5 I've taken so far. The ideas presented are extremely relevant to understanding American culture and extremely engaging to hear and discuss. Course readings were varied in nature, from practical to philosophical, so there's something for everyone. You'll write three essays, each in a different style, which is an extremely fair setup for all kinds of writers. You'll learn about religion in America from its founding to the present day, making the class timely and timeless.
The lecture was great, the readings were not.
A pretty good history survey class for those humanities students looking to fulfill US in the World. If you're a science kid, be prepared to understand that *this is definitely a history class* so don't fool yourself into thinking there won't be reading or response papers. Prof Jewett tries to make things easier on you by highlighting the parts of readings you should read, so you don't actually have to read through everything. Try not to skip lectures, but if you do, it's not the end of the world, because the papers are mostly based off the readings, and the final is based off readings and key terms he gives you. A really interesting survey of American history for anyone remotely interested in the narrative of religion in the development of the US; science is a part of the discussion, but only when in conflict with religion. Assignments include weekly 300-word responses, that unfortunately you don't get feedback on week to week, but they're pretty painless; and 3 5-7 page papers, that take a lot from the readings and are somewhat creative, which is nice. Not the *best* history class I've taken at Harvard, but enjoyable nonetheless!
Great gen-ed and great class overall. Lectures were interesting and enjoyable. Essay prompts were creative and broad enough that you were never left writing about something you didn't understand.
This is a good class. It's a very interesting way to look at American history and it's a good background for the debates we see today.
This course provides great insight into many moments of conflict between religion and history. However, the various movements we discussed felt disjointed, and I had a difficult time understanding how they fit together. Professor Jewett and Steven were both wonderful, and they clearly care about the subject matter and their students.
Its a good Gen Ed with a good lecturer. Try your best to actually go to lecture.
The lectures are wonderful, it is a joy to hear Professor Jewett discuss the material. At times funny, at times thought provoking, and at times downright shocking. Sections are alright, and the readings take careful attention. Difficult for those like myself without a background in history. Lectures ultimately make the class worth it, and the final was on the easy side of fair. I recommend, but just be ready for the high level reading required.
This is a very interesting class that definitely skews more towards history/religion than science. It's a history of religion and the slow introduction of science, not the history of science/discoveries in America. As a science concentrator, it was a little out of my comfort zone, but extremely interesting nonetheless. You definitely have to do the readings and pay attention in lecture as it's not taped/the slides aren't very robust.
The lectures are painfully boring because Prof. Jewett read from a script every class and made little effort to be engaging or dynamic. Most people I know nod off after 30 minutes or so. It's highly worthwhile and important material so it's a shame the lectures were such a drag. Grades are highly dependent on your TF and expectations for essays were often unclear, but it's definitely possible to get by if you take the time to find out what your TF is looking for. There were 4 to 6 readings per week and sections never adequately covered them in depth due to the number of them. However, I came to enjoy sections and we had really good discussions towards the end of the course. Form a study group for finals so you can help each other through the tougher readings. All in all, I would recommend the course with reservations. The content is highly interesting--how religion and science conflict and compromise in American history is complex and, if you can stay awake long enough, lectures mapped out many important events necessary to understand the current world.
Interesting course, not too hard. Good for fulfilling culture and belief.
Make sure to attend lecture because there is a lot of information. Section allows you to delve into the philosophy a little more, but lectures are mostly historical context. There is quite a bit of work: 3 papers, readings are often long (but highlighted making them MUCH easier) weekly responses and a final. Overall the class is an interesting topic and would be great for fulfilling general education requirements.
This is a great course. I found the knowledge / time-input ratio incredibly high (meaning you can learn a lot without having to spend too much time). In addition, the course material itself is very interesting.
If you're interested in the material, definitely take this course!  You can learn a lot without a strenuous workload.  Lectures can be dense (tons of info packed in), but assignments are enjoyable.  The final exam does cover a ton of material, so it's useful to keep up with the readings.
It's a good class with good material. Be prepared for alot of reading
This class is a pretty easy way to get rid of either the culture and belief or US and the world gen ed. It has very few assignments, the essays are pretty short and simple, and isn't that big of a time commitment. The essays are also graded more easily than I thought they would be, which is nice. This course isn't as interesting as you first think it might be, as it get's a little dry and seemingly irrelevant/unrelated to itself towards the middle of the class material, but still I didn't think it was a waste of time. Be prepared for sections that were boring and slightly awkward and for a final that requires a ton of preparation to essentially memorize the 60 (excessive) readings from the semester, but other than that good course that is fairly interesting with minimal work.
Would not recommend unless there are serious changes to the syllabus- many lectures felt ungrounded and pointless. I didn't get a sense of an overall message.
Could be a good course for you if you don't like traditional paper prompts.
Be careful, this course may not be what you expect.  If you come from a history background or are a history concentrator, this is certainly not like most history classes offered.  If your hoping this class will help you understand and reach a personal conclusion about the place of science and religion in society, it may not fulfill that goal either.  The course teaches a lot of specific intellectual history that some people will find boring, not stimulating, or simply not relevant.  That said, it is a moderately interesting examination of these often competing forces and if you are somewhat interested in either one you may find you enjoy this course in the end.  All things considered, I was really interested by the topic, but somewhat let down by this course's execution.
Readings are very manageable and not boring. Essays are also manageable and final is easy as long as you study. Professor is very approachable and makes lecture not boring also.
This course will broaden your view of religion and the way it interacts with American society. Its approach is more critical than comparative, which gives students interesting intellectual opportunities. There's not a huge amount of work, with manageable (highlighted) readings and a few short papers, but it's all rewarding work.
Lectures were straightforward, but the material was repetitive at times.
The material for this course is quite interesting. Be prepared to read lots of primary sources and to take good notes in lecture.
Not my favorite course, but better than what I expected from a USW Gen Ed.
This class is an enjoyable and low-stress way to satisfy a general education requirement. It's actually pretty interesting and relevant. While it's not necessary to read all the assignments super carefully, the reading is pretty light and so keeping up with it (at least by scanning everything) is quite helpful.
To be entirely honest, I did not fully realize how good this class was until I was studying for the final. I sat down and really tried to make thematic links to the material and was stunned with how much we had learned. The relationship between science and religion in American public culture is fascinating especially because the discourse is still going on today. If you have any interest in the subject, definitely take it. It is a very fair class - go to lecture, do the readings and you'll be totally fine. Lectures are really, really key though. You get a ton out of them and that's the interesting part - the readings don't fully capture the main themes and historical context. The other huge plus is that all of the readings are online which is so nice - no need to spend money on coursepacks!!
It was hard to take as a science concentrator (I didn't have the same political/historical knowledge as some of the other students), but the material was overall interesting and definitely gave me a new perspective on religion and science and how they relate to public culture. Readings were not too bad, lectures were sometimes dry, be prepared to discuss readings in section, papers were short and I enjoyed writing them
The papers are graded extremely harshly for a Gen Ed, but the material is fairly interesting.  It can be easy to skip the lecture, but don't do this, it makes all the assignments far more difficult.
If you are interested in analyzing the relationship between science and religion take this course. The writing assignments are interesting and allow you to develop your own opinion on this topic. I would suggest that you do attend every lecture however or else you will miss important information about American history which you will need for the papers and final exam.
This is a great class, with engaging and relevant lecture material. It combines breadth with depth of information in a very balanced manner. Professor Jewett or the TFs might have done more to pull out various themes to tie the lectures together, otherwise to some they might seem mere episodes that don't fit together very well.
Interesting topics, most of the readings were interesting, some of the lectures were quite dry. Decent gen ed
Professor Jewett is an awesome lecturer; make sure to attend, listen, and enjoy! Make sure to keep up with the readings - the work load isn't unreasonable, and they are really relevant to the course (and exam!)
A fascinating class!  It will totally change the way you think about science and religion by challenging your beliefs and presenting you with the beliefs of other peoples in the past.  Professor Jewett is amazing, so nice and so accessible, and the TF's are great.  This is an awesome GenEd course!
A great course that discusses the relationship between science and religion. Sections always had great discussions and all readings were carefully chosen.
The course provides an excellent overview of a large range of topics relating to religion and science have been dealt with in American public culture. Though this is the focused angle the course takes, it is also an excellent survey of American social and intellectual history! Professor Jewett is extremely knowledgeable and passionate about this topic, which shows. The topics of the lectures are very interesting, though sometimes the lectures can feel a bit dry. A great way to fulfill one's C&B or US in the World requirement. I was very positively surprised by this course and felt I definitely grew as a thinker and was challenged to reconsider my own views on truth, knowledge, morality and religion.
Hist 1445 is the quintessential Culture and Belief course, exploring topics at the intersection of religion, science, government, and culture. Prof. Jewett's lectures are insightful and easy to follow, the workload is very manageable, and you'll develop a broad understanding of the forces that have shaped American society today. My initial thoughts of Culture and Belief being the least interesting Gen Ed requirement were revised after taking this course.
It's a great class if you're into the interaction of science, politics, and religion. The papers aren't terribly difficult to write, and you have plenty of time to write each one.
This a really interesting course. Do the readings, and when you do try to think about what their bigger arguments say about the course theme, rather than getting bogged down in the particulars.
Go to all the lectures! They are very interesting beyond helping you at exam time. Be prepared to put a little extra effort on papers.
Do the readings, and do them thoroughly. You'll get a lot more out of the class that way, and they're not that bad. This course is a relatively easy gen ed that's also really interesting: those don't always come in combination, so you should take advantage of it when they do.
Definitely take this class if you're interested in the history of the United States or current American politics - science and religion has done a ot  more to shape this country than you could possibly imagine. This was something I definitely didn't appreciate til I took this class.
Great course with really interesting assignments
The class does an excellent job of showing the relationship between science, religion, and politics in the united states, and how this relationship has changed from our nation's founding up to present day.
The readings were fun but varied weekly in terms of length so be prepared to budget your time for that if you want to read the material, which I recommend. Lecture attendance is essential and enjoyable.
Interesting readings. Relevant discussion sections. Weekly notes and reading handouts are so helpful. Great, engaging, and relevant lecture. Great TFs. Great class! Take it!!
Pretty easy class, with a very interesting subject and great readings.  The fact that there weren't too many readings made it even more likely for me to read them all thouroughly.
The material is definitely interesting. That being said- while Professor Jewett has great things to say, lectures may not be that interesting. Also, beware that this is not an easy gen-ed. The paper take time and the tfs grade a bit harshly. So, if you're looking for an easy a, this would not be the course to take.
This class sparked some of the most vibrant and dynamic discussions I've had in sections at Harvard. The material is relevant to everybody reading this, it is presented well, and the marvelous teaching fellows help you process it efficiently.
This is a really interesting and relatively easy way to fulfill a GenEd requirement--you learn a lot of cool and applicable things. Jewett is a good professor, and if you can, get Eva as your TF.
I took this course to fulfill a gen. ed and ended up really enjoying it. The course brings together so many different and interesting perspectives on the role of both science and religion in American politics. The course does not have a ton of reading, but the teaching staff expects all students to complete the reading that is assigned in order to have vibrant section discussions each week.
This is a fantastic course that anyone interested in the interactions between science and religion in American history and culture should take.  The class offers an excellent lens through which one can better tackle and understand the issues of today (from creationism to abortion).  I highly recommend this course!
