Professor Higonnet is brilliant.  It is exciting to learn from him, since he is a wealth of knowledge.  He is an enthusiastic, amusing lecturer and I am so happy to have taken a class from him.  I think the approach to learning history by reading books of the era is a great idea.  Reading so many fantastic authors made me feel like a much more complete person.  However, I wish the lectures had stayed more on topic, as it is a history class and it kind of turned into a hist and lit class.
Although Prof Higonnet is incredibly knowledgeable and a fascinating man to talk to, make use of shopping this class. If you find yourself struggling at lecture 1, jump off then and don't struggle through. Also, make sure the TF is going to be strong - Philippa was the reason this class wasn't impossible.
This is a very interesting course that gives you a deep knowledge of a wide range of topics in French history. Professor Higonnet is very knowledgeable, but sometimes his lectures are a bit disjointed.
It is a great class both for concentrators as well as those who have an interest in France in general. Will be a good introduction/consolidation of both historical, literary and theoretical material.
The worse course I have ever taken at Harvard. Extremely frustrating. I also actually like French history, and I still hated it.
Hard to follow but will learn a good amount.
Higonnet is a charming guy and very intelligent but not a great lecturer. The texts are interesting but the lecture is difficult to follow because he tends to jump around quite a bit. The format is difficult because the texts you read for class are entirely separate from the lectures given, and yet you are tested at the end on not only the texts--which are reviewed very sparsely--but also the content of the lectures, which are not particularly well presented.
Professor Higonnet is a very interesting and likable professor. He deals with a highly complex and interesting part of French history in an intimate environment (this time at least). However, this course could have been much better organized, and students have to be prepared to do quite a bit of heavy lifting on their own to get to grips with the basic outline of the French Revolution and subsequent French History if they want to be able to speak and/or write coherently about this period afterward.
