this course is as good (and as hard, and as rewarding) as it gets.
If you choose to take this course, take note that it will be one of your more difficult courses of the semester. Necessary background for course: basic knowledge of African history (a lot of it will be filled throughout the duration of the semester); familiarity with Marxist and neo-Marxist philosophy and trends; the capacity to digest voluminous amounts of weekly readings; at least a modicum of confidence in the classroom.
For those who are interested in modern African history, this class is a must take. It will perfectly inform students of the up-to-date academic debates of the African history field and prepare students with a deeper and comprehensive understanding of key concepts of writing history in general.
If you want to be challenged on all your readings of texts, and really pushed to specify your claims, this is an excellent seminar to take, but you get from it what you put in--especially in terms of participation in the seminar.
Don't take this class if you have a very busy schedule.
A course that would definitely enable you to think broadly about Africa - its histories and politics!
A superb course which would confer great benefit on anyone who takes it, so long as she or he is prepared to tackle the voluminous, but never-onerous readings. Really the finest proseminar in which I have participated at Harvard, by a very long shot.
If you take this course, it will give you a sound theoretical background in the field of African History.
A great class.Highly recommended.
Caroline Elkins is one of the best mentors I've ever had. It's a lot of work. A lot. This will be the class this term that will take 90% of your time, but the class discussions will be worth it.
A rigorous and engaging course on the major themes of modern African history, which pushes you to situate everything in historiographical context and really think about each author's approach and intervention in the field.
read a general history of africa before taking the course.
