For anyone who is interested in pursuing colonial studies, a must.
This course is very good for those who are interested in colonialism and postcolinialism. An interest in History will be an added advantage.
Try to engage the readings in ways that can bring the works in dialogue with one another in order to reach a more comprehensive understanding of imperialism. This is definitely a big picture class.
You must be ready to read a lot! If you can read ~300-400 pages a week, this course will be a blast!
A wide ranging introduction to histories of colonialism in various countries and in its various aspects, the course really came to life through Professor Tai's unflagging enthusiasm and ability to foster an equally inquisitive spirit for discussion in her students.
This class is great! Readings and seminar discussions are both extremely accessible AND extremely enlightening and compelling, which is so rare. It's very theory heavy, much more focused on theories of colonialism and rule rather than historical fact memorization. However, check the syllabus or with the professor about the assignment workload before taking it. As well as a couple of hundred pages of theory-heavy (although interesting) reading a week, we were required to write a five-page response paper every two week in addition to the final paper (of 15 pages). It was a lot.
The books might have boring titles, but they're all fascinating. If you're interested in colonialism, and willing to read and write a lot, this is a great class and may change the way you think. Professor Tai is excellent, although not always clear on assignments.
Fantastic course for anyone remotely interested in colonial and imperial history. Covers a wide range of countries, so there's something for everyone (but not much about Latin America). Professor Tai is one of the best profs in the History Department. Readings can be long, but you emerge with a keen understanding of a particular region or country's experience with colonialism, and how to think critically about colonial history.
Read the week's book well ahead of section. Take good notes while reading and review your notes before sections. The readings can be dense, so extra effort to understand them can be required.
Professor Ho Tai is lovely and knowledgable and accessible!! Sometimes the course can be frustrating because the readings jump around geographically and thematically. The format of response paper + lots of reading = very hard to keep up with!!
This class is fantastic, however, in order to get the most out of each section, make sure you have done all of the reading and are alert and ready to participate in some intense discussions.
