Really interesting look at slavery and slave holding societies. Be prepared to read a LOT. Lectures are fun, but often seem a bit irrelevant to the material discussed in section.
This course is great! There is quite a lot of reading, but Professor Akyeampong works really hard to make sure you understand it all.  This class is designed to help you succeed.  I would definitely recommend this course
All of the assignments are fair. The topic is horrifying and interesting, and this is a more difficult, but wonderful way to fulfill the Societies of the World Gen Ed requirement. The amount of reading is perfect for a student in the social sciences.
One of the best gen-eds: you will learn, you will enjoy, you will fulfill requirements.
If you want to learn how the world you live in was born, take this course. A fascinating account of two continents and four centuries of human greed, depravity, resilience and creative resistance. There is no greater drama in world history, and none more important. Professor Akyeampong is a masterful teacher, as well as a kind, patient man with a wonderful sense of humor.
Take this class. It was a great class. But if you know close to nothing about world African and American history before the 1860's be ready to work extra-hard.
This class literally changed my life. The teaching staff is awesome, supportive, and SO knowledgeable about this field. I think I got as much out of this class as I did because I went to office hours with both the professor and the TF pretty regularly, where I got to get a better understanding of the readings. My understanding of slavery and slaving evolved over the course of the semester, and by the time I got to the last week, things that had made no sense in the beginning finally clicked for me. The workload is definitely manageable, and being consistent in readings and taking notes on those readings means that the exams and essays will be a breeze. The assignments aren't always clearly linked to the course material, but if you are confused, the teaching staff is always happy to help clarify. I have never enjoyed a course at Harvard as much as I did this one. It really helped me think critically about dominant paradigms within fields, and I was introduced to a lot of interesting theories of history through this course. Take this class - you definitely won't regret it.
This class is a great way to fulfill the societies of the world requirement. Professor Akyeampong is a phenomenal lecturer and Julie is an awesome TF. Together they make a great team. There are 2 papers and 2 exams. That is really hard to beat. Grading is very fair and the work is not overwhelming
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Professor Akyeampong and Julie are both very accessible, extremely knowledgeable, and dedicated to their students. The course materials are the foundations of the history of slavery and anti-slavery, and they provide a fantastic overview of the field. Discussions, in both lecture and section, are thought-provoking, informative, and very well facilitated. This has been one of my favorite courses at Harvard and I highly encourage any student dedicated to the readings and course material to experience the joy of being taught by Professor Akyeampong and Julie.
This class is a Gen Ed, but it's not "a Gen Ed": there is a lot of reading involved and you're encouraged to think very critically. That said, the exams and assignments are fair, the lectures are generally clear (and there are lecture slides so that helps), and the professor and TF really want you to do your best and will do all they can to make sure that you do - that was something I felt very strongly. The issue, however, is that the course is very broad and expansive. It's like every single event in the history of African and trans-Atlantic slavery from 1400 to 1900 is just shaken into a funnel and hosed at you. If you're just shopping it out of curiosity, I do encourage you to go for it. But you'll probably get the most out of this class if you're *actively* interested in the subject matter - if you've ever lay awake or sat down to ponder the question of what kind of concepts, theories and circumstances would drive a human being to define another human being, on the basis of some set of characteristics, as an object of submission, perhaps this class will change your life. I was the first kind of student - kind of noncommittal about it all, and that's basically how I came out of the class as well. But definitely consider shopping this class, at least.
