This is an incredible course, both because of the material and because of Professor Levidis, who is deeply invested in his students and their education. Even if you have no background in Japanese history (which I didn't) you'll learn so much because of the carefully chosen material and Professor Levidis's knowledge, which he eloquently shares with the class. He is a great teacher, and even did readings with several students outside of the class to help further their interests and deepen their understanding. A great way to learn about Japanese history and to work with a professor who is engaged with their students.
This was one of the best courses I have ever taken. Andrew is a wonderful professor (easily the best I've had at Harvard) who brings a lot of enthusiasm to class. He provides excellent feedback on assignments and knows what is needed to spur further conversation during class. The material is very interesting. It looks at Japanese domestic and foreign politics during the wars of the late 19th/20th centuries in a different way than most courses. It forces you to seriously consider the ideologies of Japan's leaders and understand how something like World War II came about from their perspective. Readings were reasonable, and never felt as long as they were. Take it for the professor and the great material. It's truly a thought-provoking course.
Prof. Levidis is not only an amazing guide through the strange and fascinating narrative of Japanese history but a wonderful human being all around. Take at least one class from him before you leave if you have any interest at all in anything Japan-related (or, honestly, even if you don't)!
Of the numerous courses I've taken and esteemed professors I've had, Modern Japan with Andrew has been by far the most rewarding and fun experience. Andrew takes difficult material and makes it wonderfully accessible, facilitating discussion and providing nuanced commentary whenever we needed it. This balance made for a phenomenal two hour seminar every week. Andrew's paper comments are incredible help from both a constructive and an encouragement standpoint - I have never met a professor who is so engaged and truly helpful for his students. You cannot go wrong in taking any course with Andrew Levidis.
Modern Japan at War is a compelling course covering the drama and tragedy of the events of the rise and ultimate dissolution of the Japanese Empire from 1868 to 1945. It engages with a wide variety of primary sources and secondary literature, and gives students a solid grasp of the driving forces and events in Japanese political, social, economic, military, diplomatic, and strategic history. And Dr. Levidis is a phenomenal teacher who is not only tremendously knowledgeable about history more broadly, but who also takes extra time to help students. Most notably, he was willing to to work with me in doing some readings outside of the class which focused more closely on my areas of interest, and made time to meet with me to discuss the readings. Also, don't worry if you have no background in Japan or Japanese; I do not speak or read a word of Japanese, and had no problem engaging both with the class material and in the writing of the final research paper. I could not recommend this class more.
Definitely take a course with Professor Levidis! He is incredibly enthusiastic about course material, as well as very caring and understanding towards his students. I learned a ton about Japanese warfare that puts current affairs into better context. I sincerely enjoyed the course and would encourage any prospective History concentrator interested in East Asia to take this course.
Don't be afraid even if you had no experience in history or don't know much about Japan. But do come in to the class with an open mind and be ready to challenge what you previously thought about the Second World War in Asia and the Japanese Empire. It comes highly recommended if you are interested in historical issues surrounding contemporary international relations in East Asia as the course investigates Japanese state policy and the development of the Japanese Empire from 1868-1945 with a heavy focus on primary sources, allowing students to gain a better understanding of the situation at the time but also give our own interpretations of the sources.
Fantastic. Be sure to go to office hours and have a great talk
