This class is framed as a workshop class and is good for people who are easily self-guided and who want to start exploring research topics or continue working on research topics that they have already started--like a thesis, for example.
It's a challenging class, but it was one of the best classes I've  taken at Harvard. I highly recommend it. Looking back, I was pushed every class to improve as a speaker and a thinker. The subject matter is also really interesting and has many implications for the ways we think about present day issues regarding race and inequality. Also, professor Higginbotham is amazing. Don't miss out on this class!
TAKE THIS CLASS. The assignments aren't hard and can be really interesting depending on how far you want to take them. Professor Higginbotham is a gem and a wealth of information, and you won't regret learning all these new things I guarantee you had hardly ever considered before.
I loved this course. It was one of my favorites at Harvard. The readings were very broad and taught me so much. I feel much more knowledgeable about the Civil Rights Movement and American race relations after I took this course. Professor Higginbotham is one of Harvard's best - every week she would scrutinize each and every one of our online blog responses, group them according to themes, and push back and compliment us in class. She and Sam clearly cared about us, and were always open to meet with us. Prof. Higginbotham is not afraid to challenge you and expand your understanding (from all angles). You will not regret taking this class - it is fantastic. The papers were also engaging. TAKE IT! :)
The themes of this course were rich and memorable. I found the arguments and some details of the texts we read to really stick with me. I have used what I learned in the class in conversation with people about contemporary issues of racism in the United States, and referenced our texts and conversations in other classes I took this semester. I also highly appreciated how engaged Sam was and how much extra time he was willing to put in to support us in our work. There was a lot of time spent on oral presentations which were somewhat valuable, but made it easy to check out in class sometimes. This wasn't the kind of class where you had to do all the reading. In fact, Professor Higginbotham tended to direct the conversation away from the readings and into other contemporary manifestations of some of the themes we were exploring. Professor Higginbotham lets you make the final paper for the course part of your thesis work if it's applicable which is pretty amazing, especially if you're a senior history concentrator who is working on a thesis and also has an outstanding seminar requirement to fill! Sam is also generally dope and super engaged!
The course is a great opportunity to do in-depth research on a topic of your choice. It is good preparation for further research papers or a thesis. Professor Higginbotham is incredibly knowledgable and supportive, and Sam was a really helpful TF. Overall very worth taking.
This course is an excellent seminar in a specific but essential piece of 20th century history. The reading material is great and the focus on the research paper very helpful for developing that skill. The class itself can be a little slow or a little all over the place - discussions were always interesting but not very structured.
If you put time in, you can learn a ton in this class. Be prepared to do significant independent historical research and read as much of the material as you can.
This class explores a really interesting subject and the class discussions were always intriguing.
This course is good, not great. The readings and subject material is great, and the assignments are both fun to do and challenging. The discussion portion of the course, however, was lacking. The conversations were often stifled by a reliance on putting our blog posts (about the readings) into conversation, when we wanted to just be asked tough questions about the readings. I think this class is worth taking, but I just feel that there is some lost potential when the subject material is great and both the Professor and TF cared so much about making the class great. I just thought the discussions were a slog for two hours many weeks. I also think we didn't need to do as many presentations as we did.
This class was great. Take it if you're interested in the material. I also came in skeptical about the many presentations that we had to give in the course, but now think they were completely worth it. I recommend without hesitation.
The class fuses an important historical argument - the civil rights movement was longer and geographically wider than the popular narrative - with a strong research workshop. If you're interested in the civil rights era, black history, or 20th century American history, this is a must-take course. Professor Higginbotham has selected a solid reading list full of fascinating history about civil rights work in New York, Chicago, Detroit, etc. The course fosters good research practices with workshops and discussion along the way, and prepares you to write a solid research paper. The coursework is consistent but not overwhelming - a book a week and about 40 pages of writing over the semester. Half that comes in the final paper, a fourth in an intermediate paper, and the rest in weekly blog entries.
I would tell future students that the class requires a lot of reading but that it is certainly worth it.
Your understanding of this period of American history (and race relations ever since) will be revolutionized. Also Professor Higginbotham is awesome. She knows everything and everyone, she will really, really push you to be originally. It's intimidating at times but worth it.
Professor Higginbotham has incredibly high expectations, but the class was very worthwhile. If you are interested in writing a thesis about this time period or these issues, this is a great class to hone research skills and explore possible topics. It may seem to be slightly less work than some of the other research seminars, but the high expectations certainly made up for that. Demanding, but worthwhile.
Really worth it if you can invest the time into it
This is a really fun class. Not only does Professor Higginbotham cover the material well, but she's probably one of the nicest professors at Harvard, and it's worth taking a class with her in a small setting. The readings aren't very long, but come prepared to discuss both the facts and the different interpretations they offer.
If you want to study with a great scholar and read great materials this is the course for you!  Professor Higginbotham knows her stuff and she will challenge everyone in class to participate in a meaningful and considerate way.
