With less people and less reading, the course could have been really important, but as it was, it would be difficult to recommend.
one of the most intellectually rewarding classes I've taken at Harvard
Great course, but not for the faint of heart!  Take it if you're interested in the issues and have the time to devote to doing the readings carefully!
Really good class. Allows you to engage with the ideas of thinkers you wouldn't encounter elsewhere. Or in the case of Blumenberg, allows you to attempt to engage with his thought.
Please well prepared for the difficulty of materials, and a critical reading in depth is inseparable to participating into the class discussion.
This course gives you invaluable exposure to the depth and background of interesting and still-very-live questions about the ongoing role of theology/religion in contemporary categories of rationality and political/public life.  Prof. Gordon is clearly very interested in these questions himself, and his enthusiasm for the topic and openness concerning its various angles makes this course especially worthwhile.
Wonderful syllabus, extremely thoughtful and generous professor.
If you want to grapple with some of the big questions regarding religion and its contested historical role in the founding of modern states - and its role today - with a superb instructor who won't simplify the material or tell you how to think, this is the course. Parts of the syllabus will befuddle and confuse, but it will be worth it.
It is one of the two best classes I've ever taken at Harvard! If you take it, plan it to be your first and second class, since the readings are going to take over your life the days before class.
This class is an extremely interesting (and challenging) exploration of the problem of secularization in the modern west. Very highly recommended--but be prepared for long and difficult (but very rewarding) readings.
Professor Gordon is amazing: sweet, delightful, and very good at making concepts understandable. Be prepared for lots of hard reading.
Expect a challenging class in terms of readings but rest assured this will be the most rewarding class you will probably take at Harvard. Peter Gordon is a brilliant intellectual and a wonderful teacher.
Very interesting subject matter
If you have ANY interest in intellectual history, you need to take this class! Blumenberg alone is worth it for the sheer density and richness of his writing and ideas.
Be prepared to read the texts closely and thoroughly, and be prepared to make an effort to get a say in the discussion.
It is an excellent
It's quite dense. Intimidating discussion
If interested in the material, you will not be disappointed. A great teacher and great readings.
Although I greatly enjoy working with Professor Gordon, this syllabus needs to be seriously altered and class format restructured.
Really, that it is most rewarding if you already have a background in the subject area--allowed for effective conversation.
This is one of the most important classes you will take at Harvard.
be prepared to read difficult german thinkers. be prepared to talk about abstract concepts and theories which are hardly provable.
if you like theory, then this course is great. If you aren't willing to read some heavy thinkers and philosophy, they you should strongly reconsider
Be prepared to work hard on challenging readings, enjoy fantastic discussions, and learn a great deal. Professor is accessible, kind, funny and fair.
The kind of intellectual inquiry you dreamed of engaging in at Harvard, but rarely actually find.  Among lots of courses dealing with minutia, this one is asking the big questions and reading big thinkers!  Great for those interested in philosophy, religion, and intellectual history.
This is a class that only people who are passionate about intellectual history should take because it definitely requires a lot of work if one wants to do the readings properly and get the most out of the discussions. And, given how amazing the reading list is, it would be a shame to take the class simply to fill up a gap in one's schedule. Also, those who do not think that German philosophy is ultimately awesome might think twice before enrolling in the class. At the same time, the class covers such a wide variety of different questions, ideas, contexts, and approaches that it is easily one of the most mind-opening courses one can take at Harvard that does not remain attached to a narrow discipline and instead tries to take a holistic approach to things.
