excellent course for learning about the varying methods and philosophies of people working in the field
Anyone who wants to know the field of intellectual history should definately take this course.
Excellent course.  Take this especially if Peter Gordon is co-teaching.
for those whose native language is not English, it will be very difficult to adjust to the intensive and difficult readings at first, especially if you do not have much previous experience of reading theoretical works. but if you could get through of it, you will benefit very much from this course
If you are interested in not only methods in intellectual history but also ones in history in general, it would be a great course.
This course has changed the way I approach my research, the field, and the study of history in general.
This class provides perspectives on scholarly methods that are not only useful for intellectual historians, but also students of literature and general historians.
Be prepared to do a lot of work - but every bit of it will prove to be rewarding.
While the goal was admirable and much needed, it didn't always make good on the promise of comparative intellectual history. It still provided a very useful background in the foundational texts of the field.
I think this course is important for familiarizing students with the field of intellectual history -- its figures, movements, vocabulary. Even if the material doesn't speak directly to a student's area of interest, this broad understanding of the field is valuable.
The subject as well as the subject matter is a fluid or can be interpreted in certain different ways--- is "intellectual history" a history of ideas or concepts? when ideas travel far and wide, do they still the same ideas or transform or metamorphose into another idea altogether? If you're interested in these questions, this is a great course to take.
If you are in a field outside of Europe or Asia then you will not get much from the readings without trying very hard to make them relevant. This is more a reflection of the existing scholarship and not the course, however.
