TAKE THIS COURSE if you are marginally interested in world events and/or contemporary developments in the Middle East. This course gives a phenomenal background for the past century of history in the region and Prof. Fahmy masterfully intertwines personal stories with the macro forces at play.
It's a great class. Prof. Fahmy is an amazing lecturer-- I went to all lectures even though they weren't technically required. However, there's a lot of reading-- be prepared to work hard. The final wasn't easy.
Perfect class. Amazing lectures, super interesting material, good readings, great section, low workload. I learned so much.
Khaled Fahmy is an incredible lecturer, so don't think it twice before checking this course out! It's an excellent introduction to the region, explaining the past to much better grasp the present. Always timely!
If you're interested in the topic I highly recommend this course
This is a great course that discusses the evolution of the current day conflict in the Middle East.
This class is great; you learn so much about such a complicated and important region, and Professor Fahmy is a great lecturer. The exams are not very difficult at all, and the only week to week work is 5 250 word responses papers. Great class, not too time consuming, and very interesting.
Having Prof. Fahmy at Harvard is a huge honor. The man was part of the Arab uprising and is an influential figure in Egypt. He also knows his stuff. Lectures are very informative and interesting, and Fahmy weaves a great story throughout the class. Considering how subjective the Middle East situation is, Fahmy tries to present it in the most objective way possible which makes this class a real treat. If you want to learn more about the Middle East, and actually be informed, this class will open eyes to countless issues and their causes.
fahmy is an incredible lecturer. he has a warm personality, fields questions well (which is really important), is very knowledgeable, and keeps lectures interesting. the subject matter is also very interesting
This class is fantastic for people interested in learning about the foundations of the modern Middle East. In fact, I think all students should have some such background in their education. Prof Fahmy is a great lecturer and a really kind person / professor. Lectures are very much from his perspective, which I found exciting and rich.
Professor Fahmy is an incredible instructorhe is so passionate and intelligent. You will learn a lot of interesting material in this class, and it will make you a more informed American citizen.
Take this class. Professor Fahmy is not only one of the best contemporary scholars of Middle Eastern history, he is also friendly and an incredible lecturer. His is the only lecture class in which I don't once look at the clock; I'm happily engaged the entire time.
Hopefully Fahmy teaches this class again, but he definitely made this course for me
This is a fantastic course. Professor Fahmy is an incredible instructor.
Take this course. It makes you a better citizen.
The course will change forever the way you look at the world!
Take this class! It is an excellent way to begin to understand how some of today's conflicts in the Middle East came to be.
The readings are heavy (if you are not a Humanities concentrator), and the class itself is dense with historical facts. The professor does a good job of covering the events in lecture while also adding in a flow that made lecture seem like we were listening to a story. Overall, this course was a good intro to the Middle East if you haven't gotten exposure to the subject previously.
This class was a fantastic overview of the modern history of the Middle East. Prof Fahmy is a very engaging lecturer, and the material is relevant and useful. Workload is light but you will learn a lot. Absolutely take this class!
Really interesting, relevant, and comprehensive. Not much work.
Amazing class if you're interested in the subject, Professor Fahmy is an incredible lecturer and storyteller. Youssef is an excellent TF, but majority of learning and assessment material comes from lectures.
The lectures for this course were very interesting, and the sections were very engaging. It is a very useful course for anyone interested in the Middle East.
This class is amazing. Fahmy is incredible and the lectures are so interesting. Totally changed how I see the modern world and politics, and I feel really well informed about the Middle East now.
This class is a must take for anyone who wants to understand what is going on in the Middle East, how the West comes into the picture, what ISIS really is all about, and how terrorism and radicalism have come to be such a huge problem. It is applicable, relevant, and well taught, especially if Salmaan is still the lead TF.
This is a  very good introduction to the contemporary Middle East. It deals with some very basic information, but also gets into quite a few details that are often overlooked. Also, Professor Fahmy is excellent.
This course is extremely interesting and very relevant to understanding the modern Middle East. It does however jump around from country to country and time period to time period a lot which often makes it confusing to follow along.
The class was really interesting, the material felt super important, and Dr. Fahmy is a great lecturer. Section was not very good.
This is an area that you should know a lot of history about, and Professor Fahmy provides a solid overview of the region, cumulating with the recent events and turmoil surrounding ISIS and the Arab Spring. The readings are manageable, and it has definitely made me a more educated global citizen.
Worth taking to understand mid east history and to understand the current situation in Middle East including ISIS
While sometimes it is hard to understand Professor Fahmy, the information covered, and his personal connection to the material, makes this class a critical course for any student who wants to speak intelligently about foreign affairs today.
It's interesting and you will learn a lot about why foreign politics are the way they are today
Terrible teaching but interesting material
A truly fascinating course which gives you thorough background knowledge to a difficult and troubled region in the world. Professor Fahmy is both passionate and objective about his subject (even when dealing with topics that polarise people and arouse strong emotions) and often brings in his own personal experiences into the lectures. At the end of the course you will feel much better informed about the workings of the modern Middle East, as well as better appreciating the highly chequered role the West has played in its development.The course is very different to those offered on the Middle East by the Gov Dept or the Kennedy School. In my opinion it is far more nuanced and objective, and it looks at the Middle East on its own terms rather than as an arena for foreign policy.
Great crash course in the modern Middle East
Of course, it is nearly impossible to have an objective history class on the region, but I think that ideology has crept into the course dialogue in a way that is overtly biased and non-intellectual. Undoubtedly, Professor Fahmy was a fantastic lecturer, but I felt like at times I was being force fed ideology instead of history. If Marijana is still one of the TFs, I would steer clear of the course.
This class has excellent readings and gives a comprehensive view of Middle Eastern history, but the lectures and sections can be somewhat dull.
Khaled is an incredible lecturer, so knowledgeable and personable, and he does justice to the gravity and complexity of the topic.  I'm so lucky to have been able to experience his historical mind for a semester.
I had no knowledge of the Middle East prior to taking this course. The course tackles a lot of different issues and it could be argued that it bit off more than it could chew (going from Ottoman Empire to present) but I think it is important to learn about the region starting from that period to understand it today. Fahmy did a good job in balancing quantity with quality. I think that if you're not a strong writer/don't have much background in writing in history you may struggle with the assignments. Although it's open to everybody it may be a better idea to take a history gen ed first to acquaint yourself with the style of writing in history before taking this course, as I know of some people that struggled with the assignments. Overall, I feel like this is a class that has really changed my worldview and also it has only been a semester, I can definitely see myself remembering this class for years to come.
This class is simply a summary of events in the Middle East over the last century. There is little analysis of these events or proper understanding of how these events unfolded and why. Most of what I learned I could have acquired through Wikipedia. Lectures are dull. Section lacked any organisation. This course was not in any way insightful, and while I left with some more knowledge of the general chronology of events in the Middle East and perhaps how current events are the results of a long historical process, I left with no greater appreciation of the complexity of the Middle East's history. Do not take this course.
Though there's a pretty strong anti-Israel bias, Professor Fahmy is an excellent lecturer who presents history an argumentative practice with widely-applicable methods and insights.
Professor Fahmy is the best History teacher I've met at Harvard; his lectures are outstanding and he is very approachable outside of class.
Professor Fahmy is a fantastic lecturer.
Lectures boring and unbalanced, overall structure to the course unclear, although the material is innately very interesting and you will learn from it.
The subject matter is fascinating and important, but the course itself was disorganized and lectures tended to be scattered. A lecture was cancelled once due to the professor's illness and never made up as promise and key papers were never returned.
Do the readings! They are great
Very informative essays from one of the premier experts in the field.
Fantastic class. The professor was an amazing lecturer and the course gives you not just an overview of ME history but also an insight into understanding why the region is as it is today.Be prepared for huge amounts of readings every week. Definitely form a study group; it will help a lot with catching up with readings and having organized notes when you study for the final
This course is an excellent introduction not only to the history of the modern Middle East, but to broader methods of historical inquiry and analysis.
Helps explain the roots of much of the conflict in the Middle East today
The lectures of Prof. Fahmy and the assignments will blow your mind.
This was the 7th Middle East history or Modern Middle East course I took at Harvard. If you are looking for a class that will push you to think critically about a number of possible perspectives on current developments in the region - DO NOT take this course. First, I am embarrassed on behalf of the university that they re-hired the Professor Fahmy. My reasons are as follows: 1) Each lecture is structured as his "argument" about a certain topic. He presents strong opinions and aligns the facts in each lecture to align with these opinions. There is no diversity of thought provided. This in itself is not a problem - expect he does not acknowledge where his opinion diverges from fact, truly an example of academic malpractice. 2) One would expect that a professor making strong arguments about a topic is actually knowledgable about that topic. Prof. Fahmy, in numerous instances, made very clear claims about issues, yet when challenged, seemingly was unaware of key facts. Two examples - with regard to the origins of ISIS, Prof Fahmy apparently knew little about the organization's predecessors. Second, on the topic of Israel-Palestine, Fahmy go basic facts about the occupation flatly incorrect, and when challenged, dug-in and defended factually incorrect statements. 3) the class is less about students and more about the professor wanting a platform to raise his profile in the media, and highlight his personal role in the Arab Spring. His approach to the topic was too obviously clouded with personal emotion, rather than critical historical thinking. Finally, it is very difficult to take a course, and improve when you do not receive feedback. Saalman was clearly overburdened. The history department should be ashamed of itself for offering this course. I have taken 4 other history courses on similar topics, including those that are controversial. They were largely worthwhile and fair. This class was not.
It's a great introduction to the historical context to many of the contemporary issues in the Middle East.
This is one of the best courses you can take at Harvard to understand the Middle East region. Fahmy is an incredible professor who never fails to leave you amazed after each lecture. He doesn't look at the region in terms of policies and numbers but with so much empathy for the people, which in my opinion is difficult to come across at Harvard. I definitely recommend.
