Professor Dench is fantastic. I literally looked forward to going to lecture every week. Not super demanding.
very good class. Great fundamental survey
This is a great class with interesting course material and a professor who is passionate about her subject. Take this course!
Its a great class, seize this opportunity to work with an incredible Historian.
You might as well just buy the books and read them on your own.
This is a fun class, not terribly difficult, great introduction to one of the most important periods in world history.  Professor Dench is also extremely entertaining.
A great way to learn about Roman history from both the standard perspective and a really unique one. The professor and the TFs are all absolutely amazing. They're all enthusiastic, funny, and very interesting. If you can't make it to the first two lectures, make sure you catch up on that material somehow, because it felt to me as though a lot of the course assumes you know what happened in those two lectures.
Great course! It gives you a great understanding of the Roman world through lectures and primary sources.
This class involves a lot of time, especially in preparation for the section quizzes, which are announced in advance.
If you like Roman History take this course...
This class is a lot of fun! I am not an ancient history buff, I took this class to fulfill my ancient history requirement for the history department, and I'm so glad I did. People told me to wait until I could take a class with Emma Dench to fulfill the requirement, and I'm so glad I did. This class teaches you something you really should know about (basic ancient history/history of Rome) with added fun and sophistication. Professor Dench makes a potentially boring topic extremely fun. I think this is a great class for anyone who wants to know about Rome but doesn't want to be in over their head.
You should take a class on Roman History before you take this class
Great material, great prof. You shouldn't take the class unless you are interested in learning and working.
Take it!
This class is a good, relatively easy introduction to Roman History.  Emma Dench is amazingly energetic and engaging.  Grading can sometimes seem somewhat arbitrary, but on the whole, the class was really good.
Wonderful history course!
It's a great course - Prof. Dench is amazing! Take time to meet her; she's very kind and willing to interact with her students. Having never taken a Roman history course, I felt a little unprepared because this course covers the political history of Rome rather quickly and focuses on less traditional aspects of Rome, which is really nice but requires a decent understanding of traditional Roman history. At times, it also felt like a Classics course. If you're thinking of taking it, go for it!
You don't have to like Roman history coming into this class. Professor Dench and the TFs will make you interested, and I really grew to enjoy the material.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Professor Dench is one of the best professors I've had.
Professor Dench is dynamic! She is passionate about the material, knows a whole lot and is entertaining. Her lectures are very interesting and fun. I look forward to her lecture and to our discussion
This class is absolutely amazing.  Professor Dench is among the best, if not the best, at Harvard.  It's entertaining and unintimidating and helpful in every way.
Do yourself a favor. Take this class...core + elective...trust me.
Decent class for a pre-modern history requirement, but the grading is a bit arbitrary.
Prof. Dench is a pleasure.
The lectures are really entertaining; Prof Dench is super engaging and great. You learn about the bits of history which get left out of the dominant narrative, which is awesome. There's some pretty dense readings, but all of the assessments are easy; they definitely know it's a Gen Ed, and structure it accordingly. Definitely a great course!
Professor Dench is a very nice person and an engaging lecturer, but attending her lectures aren't really necessary to succeed in the course. As a result, the majority of the coursework involves teaching yourself key terms and reading primary and secondary sources. The material from lecture doesn't show up on the midterm/final and doesn't help in writing papers.
A pretty good class overall and a very easy way to satisfy SW, but the class is frustrating all over the place. It can be difficult to stay motivated when you feel like you're not really getting anything out of the class.
Professor Dench's lectures are the best part of this class, so make sure you go.
Be prepared to read a lot. But there isn't much work beyond that.
Dench is great, she's a fun teacher, however the lectures are jumpy and sometimes hard to follow. If you do the reading in advance like she requests it's not problematic. Overall it's a very easy history course and not much is expected of you. You should be willing to do the reading if you're going to take the class or you miss out.
Emma Dench is a very entertaining lecturer who truly wants to interact with her students; she was accessible even outside her own office hours.
Emma Dench is an incredibly entertaining and engaging lecturer. She is like an actress on the stage and every lecture is enjoyable.
great class, prof dench is awesome
Lots of readings, pretty easy though, largely unhelpful lectures
Overall a good class. Professor Dench brings a lot of enthusiasm for the material, the assignments are relatively short and easy, and the readings for section are great (though sometimes long).
This class teaches you basic history that I'm of the opinion of everyone should know.
IT'S AWESOME
Interesting, not life-changing- a good course on an interesting subject
This class and Prof Dench are incredible!!! Also when choosing sections, try to get into Lizzie's section; she's super helpful and really understands the material and how to present it.
TAKE THIS COURSE! Emma Dench is amazing, lectures are a blast. Readings are absolutely painless if you are fascinated with Roman history. I cannot recommend this course more highly! The one drawback is that I wish it had gone deeper into the Roman military, but other than that it is a great course... Take it!
Not the introduction to Roman history you think it will be. It is a purely thematic course focused on culture above all else. You will come away knowing far more than you would ever have dreamed about dual identities, microworlds, and indirect Romanization, but very little actual, solid history. Having completed this course quite successfully, I probably could not tell you more than 10 or so important dates in all of Roman history. Nor could I give you more than the most cursory summary of that history or the major figures in it. The course isn't necessarily terrible (though the lectures really do jump around more than they should) but it isn't about the history of Rome, it's about the history of Roman cultural development.
Multi-faceted.
Emma Dench is amazing! She is funny, entertaining, and effective, and the class was really a valuable experience. Be sure to take notes during class (the lectures are the most important part, and they are NOT videotaped). This is not a stressful class, but you will learn a lot.
Dench is the best lecturer I have had at Harvard.
Most benefits come from the reading material. Lots of examples in lecture.
Everyone could draw something from this class. It provides an opportunity to look at different ways that people can rule and be ruled.
This is a great choice for a gen ed.  I tend to fall asleep during/skip gen ed lectures, but this was a good exception.  Prof. Dench is very engaging, and if you get Lizzie as your section leader, then you're even luckier.
This course covers a broad sweep of Roman Imperial history and focuses on many diverse subjects: women, Christians, slaves, etc. In this way, the course is helpful in reinventing many of the stereotypes of Rome. The Teaching Fellows and the Professor are all very kind and willing to help.
Lots of readings, but otherwise not much trouble.
Emma Dench is wonderful. The class itself is a little slow, but it is enjoyable because Prof. Dench makes every lecture fun.
Professor Dench knows a lot, but can be a little over the top. It might be because it's an intro class, but I sometimes felt that we made things a little too black and white. The material is interesting, but can seem disjointed and scattered. Midterm, papers, and final are all manageable and straight forward. Not an amazing amazing class, but Professor Dench is worth it.
If this course is available (I know Professor Dench may not be teaching it in 2015) TAKE IT if you have any interest at all in the Roman Empire. If you need to fulfill SW, but don't like History, STILL TAKE IT, because this is by far the most engaging class you could take! And it isn't unmanageable - you know what's expected of you so it's pretty straightforward to do well.
There is a lot of reading for this course more than most students will probably read.
Go to lecture. Key terms are defined in lecture.
Lots of unnecessary readings. Frustratingly tedious assignments. Poorly organized, disjointed lectures.
That being said, the workload is light and Professor Dench is absolutely charming and wonderful
Dench brings a lot of enthusiasm. Good for a gen ed if you just want to do something that involves Rome. Bad as far as actually learning the minutiae of Roman history goes--it's really focused on the broad themes of history and discussion, but not the more interesting detail kind of things--but you'll get an easy A without ever even needing to go to lecture, which is pretty good considering this isn't even one of those classes where the lectures are recorded.
History 1011 is a excellent course for those who have even the slightest passion for history. Professor Dench is an amazing lecturer. She always engages her students and makes it enjoyable to learn history.
It was a well taught class that is good for anyone interested in the Roman Empire.
This class is a wonderful way to learn a lot without much stress. Professor Dench's lectures are hilarious and entertaining, and the section readings really aren't too bad. Sometimes things can be a little bit disjointed (don't bother to buy the textbook), but if you put in some effort you will learn a lot!
This class is not stressful at all and is a lot of fun. Professor Dench is great at generating enthusiasm for the subject matter, so even if you're not the most interested in ancient history you will enjoy it. Readings aren't very taxing, and you can definitely get by without buying the Potter textbook.
Professor Dench is fantastic; go to lecture! The readings are engaging and will really tie together the things taught in class.
Good class to take if you are at all interested about the broader context of Rome's history. Very little coursework beyond the readings; the textbook is dry but the section readings are fine. It's enjoyable and not much of a challenge.
Good reading list but I was never all that enthusiastic about the class--it's big and was too much of a broad introduction to Roman history that resulted in quickly moving from unit to unit.
Take this class! Everyone should take a course from Dench at some point. She is hilarious and is very engaging in her lectures. This course is a painless way to fulfill society's of the world. Not that much work and if you make a small study group to review the IDs and readings you will do well
This is an excellent class to take. Honestly, I learned so much about Roman History and the faculty were great. I had kathryn as a TF and she was seriously amazing. Prof Dench is fantastic as well! She would help you with keyterms or just basic understanding of the material!
I approached this class as a manageable history course so that I could see if history would be a concentration. This was a mistake, because the Classics Department is in charge of this course and the course is more representative of a GenEd than a typical history course. I enjoyed the course, but I  don't believe it's what someone who is passionate about Rome desires.
The material is very interesting! I was very skeptical about doing a course in Ancient History but this really demolished all the stereotypes. Prof. Dench is an absolute boss and is one of the most engaging lecturers I have had at Harvard. Take this course if you enjoyed Game of Thrones (a lot of the narrative is similar!!) and want to better understand present day institutions!
This course does a good job at covering a crucial period in the World's history by honing in on key themes. However, be prepared to be bored to tears by some of the readings.
Professor Dench is awesome and this course had one of the most effective sections I have ever had
Emma is amazing and this course is definitely worth taking.
Take notes and write down the key terms early.
It's awesome. A bit more work than I was expecting, but totally worth it.
This course covers fascinating material and is amazingly taught. It really takes apart what we think we all know about Rome and forces you to think critically about Rome and its legacy. I really appreciated the focus on minority perspectives, which I think a lot of history courses tend to ignore. The only thing greater than the material we covered was the teaching staff: Emma Dench is an amazingly engaging lecturer, and my TF Lizzie was one of the best I've ever had. 10/10, would recommend.
It is a lot of reading.
This is a fantastic introduction to Roman history. Prof. Dench is an excellent lecturer and a really nice and fun person. In addition, the readings are very interesting
Take this class! Prof. Dench is also an amazing and engaging lecturer. If you're intimidated by a history class, I think this would be a great class since they don't really focus on memorizing dates etc. It really gives you a comprehensive history on Rome. I really enjoyed this class as a science concentrator and I think it'd be great for anyone fulfilling the gen. ed. requirement or for anyone who is interesting in taking this class as an elective. Also, if you take this course go to the lectures because I think those were most helpful to me and one of the best components of this course. I thought the workload was very fair (2 short-ish papers, a midterm and a final).
If you would like to take a course that builds on your prior knowledge of Rome steer clear of this introductory class. For people with little prior knowledge of Rome, you will find this course an interesting course that at the same time fulfills a gen ed requirement.  Professor Dench is humorous and informative.  While the structure of this course is rather restrictive, the penalty for missing section is a 500 word assignment, the time commitment is minimal and many of the readings can be skimmed.
Prof. Dench doesn't lecture, she performs. She's amazing. Take this course.
Not a cakewalk, but a relatively painless way to fulfill a gen-ed. Two exams, two papers, and participation in section is all that's asked of you. If you have any prior knowledge of Rome, you can get away with skimming some of the readings for section, but even if you don't, don't feel like you'll be overwhelmed by the content. Wasn't the biggest fan of Professor Dench (great person, but you'll feel like a high schooler being lectured again), but that's not a large enough reservation for me to not recommend taking the course. Still worth it for a gen-ed.
You will get a lot out of it if you put time into it.
If you're not all that interested in Roman history, you may not like this course. Professor Dench is a funny and dynamic lecturer, but I found myself uninterested in the course material.
The course title is very accurate. Don't expect to come out of the class with a great knowledge of what each emperor did. Do expect to come out with a sense of how religion, or gender, or class was viewed in the world of the roman empire. The only more accurate title would be "Coins of the Roman Empire." You look at SO MANY COINS.
Really fun class! Emma Dench is awesome!
Emma Dench is the best professor at Harvard right now.  Take every class that you possibly can with her.  She takes interesting material and makes it truly fantastic!  History 1011 provides a great entry point to learning about Ancient Rome.  You do not need prior knowledge or experience with the subject to be successful.  That said, people who are pre-disposed to be interesting in Rome will have the most fun in this class.  The workload is very reasonable--certainly on the lighter end as far as Gen Eds go, so considering all of this, again most especially Professor Dench, I cannot recommend this class highly enough!
It is an interesting class and is well taught. The TFs were very good and it was well organized and interesting. It is a pretty standard good Gen Ed class and if you are interested in Rome I would recommend it.
This class was great. Professor Dench generated a lot of enthusiasm for the material and was a fantastic lecturer (though her style may not be for everyone). The reading material can be dry at times, but engrossing at others. If you have a great TF like William, the class will definitely be a great part of your semester.
Great class. Not too much work, but overall interesting. Papers are graded somewhat difficultly, so make sure to talk to TFs. Exams are not bad, and are easy to crush. Overall, I highly recommend this course.
Very fun course, and a great gen ed! Professor Dench is very fun and engaging!
Prof Dench is very lovely, funny, a clear and careful lecturer. The primary sources were interesting. William was a wonderful TF. The course expectations and structure were very clearly communicated. On the negative side, I understand that the lectures did not intend to give a traditional historical narrative (which we were supposed to learn on our own by reading the readings), but rather to offer insights, different perspectives, and critiques of the traditional narrative. However, the textbook and the secondary sources were rather long, dense, tedious, often tangential, and difficult to keep up with. I ended up feeling like I didn't have enough of a grasp on the traditional narrative to appreciate what was going on.
The lectures are not that organized... It's best to know something about Roman history before enrolling in this
It's a class that teaches us about where Western Civilization comes from.
The lectures were boring. My section happened to be good. The topic is interesting but the lectures and readings were not.
It's a good class, but although professor Dench is interesting the material is not that cool.
Emma Dench is a fantastic and engaging lecturer and brings the Roman world to life.  However, it was sometimes chaotic because lectures are not concretely chronological so by the end I was pretty confused about the actual timeline.  Readings are also pretty heavy, but section does a really good job of making them applicable to course themes.  The primary sources were awesome, insightful, and so interesting.
Emma Dench is a great lecturer, but the course is poorly structured - i.e lectures do not proceed in chronological order and do not tie together into a larger theme.
Relatively painless
This is essentially a class on Roman foreign (and to a lesser degree domestic) policy, and Roman cultural identity. It does not focus heavily on day to day life, or on the archaeological record. The class strikes a good balance between assigning a sensible amount of reading and still conferring a good deal of knowledge. Section is well run and highly informative.
Emma is absolutely wonderful, and her lectures are very entertaining and informative. Jamie is the most wonderful TF I have ever had. He brought us cookies, candy, and was very helpful and caring outside of class. Try to get him as your TF if you can.
Emma Dench is a very enthusiastic lecturer, but the tendency of the course to bounce around instead of progress chronological is a bit frustrating.
Professor Dench is an absolutely fabulous lecturer, and it's really fun to watch her teach!
If you're interested in Roman history, take this course. Otherwise, maybe finding a gen-ed you're interested in might be more useful.
Professor Dench is warm, interesting, and accessible and she leads an entertaining (legitimately hilarious) lecture. If you're interested in discovering the depth of the civilization we often have drawn out for us in broad strokes in elementary school, this is the course for you. Don't take it if you're super-experienced though, because that's probably rude.
The course is fun, engaging, and sometimes invigorating, but I can't say I emerged from it with a sense of historical narrative. Culture matters, but so do events, and they didn't always seem to be linked in the course.
It's fun and not a lot of work.
The reading assignments can be plentiful, but the course is fun and Professor Dench is an entertaining lecturer.
This class is an interesting way to learn about Ancient Rome, but has more work than you would expect. There are separate readings for lectures and sections along with frequent quizzes, something that is easy to miss when first perusing the syllabus. Professor Dench is a riot and overall the class is a pretty painless way to knock of the SW requirement.
This is a great course to take for a general overview of the Roman Empire, and is particularly fascinating for engaging with the many different ethnic and social groups that comprised the empire.
This course didn't have too much reading, and the second half of the course's readings weren't even that important for understanding the lectures, though they were interesting on their own. It was easy and the exams are spelled out for you: 100 IDs and four main themes for the essays. But it wasn't one of those courses where the lectures are enthralling and you are a bit nostalgic on the last day. I didn't come away with a feeling that I just experienced one of the most interesting courses at harvard; and roman history should be exiting.
This class is more work than you'd expect, and is not necessarily an easy grade. But that doesn't mean that you shouldn't take the class! Dench is an engaging and fun lecturer, and the TFs in the class are so excited about the material that you will develop a newfound interest in the subject matter by the end.
If you are interested in learning more about Roman history, it is a great class to take. Beware, the focus is on social themes, not historical narrative - so if you like the story more than the theory, you might not enjoy this class as much. But if you want something different in a history class, check it out - Prof. Dench is an awesome lecturer.
If you're into history at all, this course seems to have been simplified a lot since it was a straight-up history course. It's pretty much a breeze. The material is pretty interesting, if you want to learn it.
This class is a great overview of 600 years worth of Roman History.  It is a fun and interesting elective, mostly because Professor Dench is so hilarious.  Lecture is both entertaining and informative, and section is fun because the readings for section are almost always fascinating primary documents.  It is clear that the teaching team really tries to make this the best course they can.  The TFs meet to standardize grades across sections, and they lead review sessions regularly during the semester.  They even offer fun opportunities outside of class, like lunch with Professor Dench, or a trip to a museum to see the remains of baby bones from Carthage.  All that being said, they definitely grade it like a history course, not a Gen.Ed.  You will learn a lot, but you'll have to work for it.  You'll probably have fun while you're at it, but you definitely can't slack off.
It's not easy and not AMAZING OMG, but it's a solidly good course
This is a great class to take - Prof. Dench is amazing, and the section component is good too.  Obviously, which TF you get will affect your grading etc, but that's true across all big classes.
Take a class with Professor Dench while you're at Harvard! She's fun, engaging, compassionate, and incredibly passionate about her work. (but maybe a smaller one if you can find it, as I think her logic and organization is easier to follow if it's a more intimate setting)
Emma Dench is an absolutely joy. She doesn't take herself too seriously, and even if her students don't find her funny, she doesn't care because she'll just keep on laughing along at herself. The TFs were all wonderful (if a bit nerdy, as most classicists of some kind tend to be). Lecture is only somewhat necessary - the slides are all up online, but sparse, so it really does help to be in lecture to get the details. Reading assignments are manageable. Many, MANY people take this course, as it's gotten more popular now that it counts for Gen Ed, but there are still a few students who actually care about Roman history and/or are pursuing Classics.
This is hands down the WORST class I've taken at Harvard. The professor and teach staff does a terrible job teaching what is actually a really interesting and important subject: Roman History. They make all of the material very inaccessible to most students except for their pet history concentrators. They are incredibly smug and paternalistic about their subject matter which makes them feel the need to give an overwhelming number of assignments and test to "make sure people are doing the readings". Both the lectures and the textbook are incredible poor and hard to follow. Roman history is so rich and complex that there could be a number of different higher level courses taught on very specific aspects. This class should be more of an overview, but it is not. I would recommend you skip this class as an elective or Gen Ed requirement.
It is a rather easy general education class that presents a great deal of extremely fascinating material on a culture that provides a very hazy background for much of our society. It can be a little light at times, but the readings are always fascinating, and this information is very good to know. You'll make a much better old person if you can rattle off the succession of emperors.
This class provides a good introduction to Roman history and provides very interesting conclusions about how the Romans viewed those around them.
The class was really interesting, but you get out of it what you put into it.  Is it possible to get through the class without doing the readings? Yes.  But it is so much more worthwhile to learn all the subject matter, and get a true understanding of the Romans.
This was an enjoyable course, but sometimes I wondered whether I couldn't glean the same information from a documentary. Professor Dench is incredibly enthusiastic which is an asset in sections or seminars but is frustrating in lectures. The combination of lectures with the section focus on primary sources was definitely one of the best parts of the course. There is a lot of consistent work though. ID quizzes, etc.
Great Societies of the World course. Professor Dench is fun, and while the lectures are a little scattered, you learn Roman history in an enjoyable way.
Excellent class! You really get to learn a lot about the fascinating world of the Romans and it's a great smooth introduction into history courses at Harvard as it teaches a lot but is not insanely challenging so you never feel overwhelmed
If you're willing to put the time into the reading, you'll really learn a lot from Prof. Dench.
Although this course requires a lot of work (readings), it is vital in understanding how this part of the world came to be.
Read the primary sources because they are really helpful/vital for the papers and midterm/final essays.
I personally loved History 1011. Professor Dench is a brilliant, wonderful instructor, and Rowan is the most organized course head at Harvard. This is not a course to take if you are looking for an easy Societies in the World Gen Ed--it is a history department course and is treated as such; your papers will be graded on the same scale as those in any other history department course, regardless of if you are taking this as a Gen Ed or not. I wholeheartedly recommend taking it if you are willing to put in the work and learn from the perspective of a history scholar.
A great and painless way to fulfill soc-world Gen Ed: minimal workload, lenient grading, and Professor Dench is such an engaging lecturer - take this class!
If your at all interested in history, or had a bad experience with history classes in high school, this class is the perfect way to get back into the swing of things.
Don't expect to learn anything in lecture--Emma Dench isn't very good at teaching; she's just trying to be an entertainer. But section is legit.
Only students with a genuine interest in ancient Roman history or even a knack for learning history in great detail should enroll in History 1011. The course is "sold" very well during shopping week, but it becomes increasingly difficult. The assigned readings can be especially confusing.
If you are willing to cover the chronology on your own, the case studies are super interesting.
It's very easy. I think it could be more, though, given the material and subject matter. Professor Dench is amusing but sometimes it's easy to zone out.
Roman history is amazing, and the course isn't too demanding, although Profesor Dench's lectures are mind-numbing at times.
Professor Dench is great, but this course covers too great a span of time and can be confusing at times.
you need to have a genuine interest in this class. Professor Dench is an enthusiastic, engaging lecturer, but the material is difficult to follow unless you put in a lot of work by doing all of the readings
Go to lecture!
Not only is the subject matter absolutely fascinating, but Prof Dench is an amazing lecturer; I was rarely bored in class and actually paid attention most of the time. She is very theatrical and funny, but still manages to get key concepts across. There's a good amount of reading, and it can be dry, so get one or two friends and split it up early so you don't get behind! Sections were extremely informative (Monica was an amazing TF, very engaging and knowledgeable). Overall, a great class: I took it just for fun, but it would be a perfect way to fulfill your gen ed requirement.
Take this class for a new challenge! I'm a science student and I'm glad I did. You may not always get a perfect grade, but college history is a learning process. This class is a great intro to that kind of thinking.
great class if you are interested in roman history without too brutal of a workload
Emma Dench is a fantastic, enthusiastic and energetic lecturer - one of the best I've seen.
The organization of this course was, quite frankly, terrible -- which made it really, really difficult to get through 600 years of Roman history coherently. The course expected us to both keep in mind chronology (despite the fact that the lectures jumped all over the timeline) and to have a comprehensive understanding of the themes (despite the fact that it was rarely specified at what points in the period of study a particular theme was relevant for). The lectures felt incredibly scattered: Professor Dench has this habit of focusing on little snapshots without spending much attention on tying them together -- more often than not, I walked out of lecture not knowing why I had walked in. Getting through at least one primary source a week without ever being taught how to parse translated versions of works that were written over two thousand years ago was also really frustrating. In general, it felt like they expected more from us than they taught us. That said, I think a lot of these problems may have come from the fact that I literally had not had any academic experience with Roman history or the classics. And the staff is incredibly enthusiastic. So while I was displeased (to say the least), this course could be good for people with a prior background or for people who aren't interested in more than hearing some interesting stories twice a week.
Professor Dench and Rowan are wonderful. Take caution, however-- this is a history class, not an easy gen-ed. Doing well requires actually doing the work. And if you do, you'll be impressed with what you learn.
This class is pretty fun: the sections are actually a good use of time, and the material is interesting; I appreciated the focus on culture and society in the course. The workload is also very manageable, and the course is well-run. Definitely one of the better choices available for a reasonable Societies of the World course.
Seemed cool during shopping period. Definitely make sure dench can hold your attention for the whole semester. And get Chris or Rowan as a tf
Very engaging lectures
Great class, very informative and a new approach on how to study history.
The Q scores from the last time this course was offered were deceivingly high. It's a class that was meant to be taught to a small group, rather than as a lecture, and it definitely showed. I don't feel like I learned Roman history to any appreciable extent.
If you love history, it is a good class to take. They assign a lot of readings and some of them are quite dense. I found that this class took up much more time than I expected, but Prof. Dench and the TF's are always willing to help. They specifically tell us what will be on the quizzes and exams, which is nice. It was a decent class overall but be prepared to do a lot of readings.
Take this class! The material is really interesting and Professor Dench is hands down one of the best lecturers I've seen here at Harvard. The workload isn't that bad. Section assignments can be a bit of a pain, but they're interesting and extremely helpful for writing good papers and exam essays.
-Its an awesome and fun class, definitely one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard
Roman history is interesting, confusing at times. The learning gained in this class will help you in life.
A good class to learn about the Roman world but lecture can get confusing. The class does require a decent amount of work with various quizes and response papers. Overall, a good gen ed.
Professor Dench, and the possibility to attend office hours with Rowan Dorin (even better if he is your section leader) makes this course necessary to take. I could not care any less about ancient history or the Roman Empire, and this was my favorite course. Take it.
The lectures are pretty interesting. You may be a little frustrated on the grading of the midterm and papers. The TFs have a lot to grade, but the feedback is minimal and the grade a little subjective.
This is really a great intro-level history class that is a good way to satisfy a gen-ed requirement. Professor Dench is incredibly energetic and passionate about the course, which makes it all the more enjoyable. The workload isn't overwhelming. Overall, it is a great survey course of Roman history.
It was very interesting and it felt like it was a topic that I could draw upon for years to come. It did require time and effort to do the readings however, especially if you didn't split them.
It's not that much work, lecture is pretty fun, and the material is interesting (Roman emperors were often nuts). A solid gen-ed!
Even if you only have a cursory interest in Roman history, take this course. Dench is superb, the material is fascinating and the class is a blast.
This is generally a very good class with an excellent and knowledgable and dedicated teaching staff. At the same time, you might want to consider: (1) Though this course ended up being, for a lot of people, that fourth course that you don't put as much effort into, the expectations are actually pretty high and grading is tough. If you are only looking for an easy Gen Ed, you could probably find an easier one elsewhere. (2) Lectures, over the course of the semester, can feel a bit dull and disorganized. It's easy to not get a lot out of them. If you make an effort to pay attention and/or go to office hours, it would probably help a lot. Basically, I think this was a good course, and that if you want to learn about Rome (which you should, because it provides insight into a lot of facets of our culture, and it's also just nice to feel like you actually know who Julius Caesar and Augustus and Cicero were) then you should take it and it won't be too demanding. But if you are someone looking for a Gen Ed requirement and expect to spend most of your time on other courses or extracurriculars, this might not be what you're looking for.
Great class; especially if you like the Romans...
Not a difficult class, and not too time consuming. All in all a good choice.
Professor Dench is fantastic.
Really interesting topic, Professor Dench very engaging, grading tough
There isn't very much work and the subject is interesting. But one might fall behind on most of the readings because you aren't held accountable for a lot of them until essays and tests.
This was a phenomenal course. The material was interesting, but section really made it what it was, and Chris was fully responsible for that. Not only super knowledgeable in the subject, but he's just a cool, funny, down to earth dude who really gets you excited about the material each week... I mean that's what Harvard is all about. It's a shame its his last year here - this school's really missing out going forward. All in all, this course is great - definitely recommend it for anyone interested in the classics or history.
This class is an excellent course for students interested in the complex history of the Roman Empire and its people, or for students just wanting to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement without too much hassle.  The class is very easy, though you do manage to learn a substantial amount in the process (although for students with advanced interests in Roman history, this class may not include the depth and rigor that other history classes may offer). The teaching staff is very strong and highly motivated to make the class engaging and interesting, without taking too much time away from your other classes/extracurriculars.
This is a fun class about an awesome topic. Professor Dench is adorable and great and they Romans are the most incredible bunch of people you could ever hope to get to know in a history class. The more you buy in, the more you'll be amazed by what the Romans were able to pull off.
The class has a good amount of reading, but is very engaging and will provide a great deal of knowledge about Rome.
Great class for people that are enthusiastic about history, allows a glimpse into an extremely interesting topic through great lectures, section discussions, and primary sources.
I found the topic of the course very interesting. The Roman Empire was a fascinating society, and this course tries very hard to dissect in a way beyond just a list of facts and dates - the treatment of the subject was very thematic. Some themes included religion, social mobility, the role of women, the impact of empire, etc. However, this thematic treatment felt very forced and shallow because most of the students in the course (including me) had no previous experience with history. I would have felt more empowered if the course was more focused on the facts and "the correct interpretation," rather than trying to get me to come up with my own thoughts, because frankly, my thoughts (like the thoughts of most of the students in the class) are not qualified to be expressed. As a result, section was a joke and I dreaded each one, because it was just a bunch of students spewing disorganized and probably incorrect thoughts, and my TF failed to focus these thoughts into anything resembling a proper academic idea. The ideas that we did come to felt very shallow and "modernized," in the sense that I feel it's unfair for us to make moral judgments on the Ancient Romans based on modern conceptions of morality. In short, the course would have been better if it had been dryer and more straightforward - I just wanted to learn Roman history, not make it up! The lectures themselves were okay... They got a lot better after Prof. Dench started treating them less like theater and more like a lecture. Her lectures still were a bit rambling and disorganized, and her lecture slides are utterly useless for studying (if you haven't attended lecture or want to review the lecture), so take good notes! The midterm felt like it was arbitrarily graded, and grading of the 2 short papers seemed rather arbitrary and unfair as well (some TFs graded easier). The one good thing I will say about this course is that if you do meet with Prof. Dench in person, she is quite helpful and is a true academic - she really knows her stuff and expects her students to not BS and actually think hard about the ideas at hand. In summary, I recommend this course to people who are serious about history and who have the interest to actually think hard about the ideas and not just BS your way through it and expect other students and the staff to tell you what the right answer is - because they won't! (But they should, because it's just an intro course - you can't reinvent the wheel if you don't even know what a wheel is!)
Professor Dench is fun and engaging.
rome is a very interesting topic but the course may not be the best place to indulge that interest.  i did learn quite a bit over the semester, but taking it as an elective was a bit of a let down and i wasn't always engaged.
This course is a standard history department lecture course in regards to assignments and section. However, Professor Dench is a wonderful teacher and a very entertaining lecturer, and she made the course enjoyable.
The readings are pretty long, but the material is interesting so they don't always seem that bad. If you have any interest in Roman History, I recommend the class.
Fantastic class. Prof. Dench is really funny, pretty straightforward and very enthusiastic.
Emma Dench is amazing.  She is the most energetic lecturer ever and she is extremely passionate about teaching.  It is definitely worth it to take a class with her.
Professor Dench is awesome, and the history is fascinating.
Dench is hilarious and the TFs are adorable.  The material is interesting and well-presented (Dench likes to pretend she's an emperor and make you cower), and there's only two papers, the midterm and the final.  Study well for the ID quizzes and it's not difficult.
The lectures may sometimes seem a little all over the place, but it is a great class. Dench is a lucid lecturer, and all the section leaders are fantastic. Do the reading to get the most out of it, but you can definitely get by only skimming.
The readings can get very dry at times, but overall it's a fascinating history.
The class was very interesting and fun. I'm very glad I went out on a limb and took it. Emma Dench is great and the readings are very interesting, SO DO THE READINGS!
I would tell them that the course material is relatively interesting, but the way in which the course and its assignments are structured is very poor.
Great class! If you're interested in Roman history definitely take it. Even if you're not, you'll love it.
All around a very solid, interesting course. The organization is some of the best I have seen in a course at Harvard--the website is clearly organized, handouts/readings easy to find, many exam review sessions are organized, all TF office hours were listed, etc. Reading for class/section may seem heavy, but you actually don't have to do all (or even a lot) of it to get by and potentially do well. The grading felt slightly arbitrary, but that is to be expected for any humanities class where you're graded by essays/short answers/using words for an answer in general. So I thought the class was fair and would not be concerned about overly harsh grading. Material-wise, it was very interesting and Professor Dench is entertaining. Sections are not bad. I was initially concerned that the course would overlap with a lot of the information in Classics 97b (a course on Roman history), but I was glad to find that the focus of this course was different; instead of just learning events, dates, and people, we talked about more of the theory of the Roman empire, like what made it successful and how it was so powerful. So if you've taken Classics 97b you will still learn a lot in this class. I'd recommend it for those looking to fulfill a classics secondary or a gen ed since it's relatively a low workload.
If you have taken Roman History in the past, this course will probably be too slow-paced for you but will still have very interesting elements and some new information.
Take this class! Super interesting and not too difficult.
its a really easy gen ed requirement
Take the class, even if just for Professor Dench's enthusiasm!
The lectures are unstructured at times. Though Professor Dench has a lot of energy, sometimes it can distract from the content of the course.
Interesting primary sources, but the course overall is unorganized and hard to keep up with.
This course is very disorganized in terms of how the material is presented. The class itself has a good structure to it, but the lectures skip around so much that it causes people to loose track of  the overall themes of lecture. Section material seems almost completely disconnected from anything learned in class, which did not make section helpful at all in learning material. Professor Dench is a great professor but if you want a class that is more organized and easier to follow in how it presents its material this isn't it!
Professor Dench is amazing! She is so funny and was always excited about her material! The course is very well organized, even though it was not expecting so many students in the beginning of the semester. Exams and papers are straightforward and there's a lot of material that is covered but just make sure you take very good notes in lecture and in section. The section readings are also vital.
Very good intro to Rome. Emma Dench is an extremely energetic and driven professor. The TFs are all super helpful
Professor Dench gets very silly in lecture sometimes. If you can get past that, this is a fascinating class, and she is a brilliant scholar.
Professor Dench is very entertaining and her passion for ancient Rome is contagious. At first, the lectures seemed a bit lacking in organization but that improved as the course progressed. There are a lot of readings, which can be dense, so skimming will probably be necessary, especially since you should definitely do the readings before section. There are only two essays which aren't very long, and the midterm and final are not too bad if you study enough. Arafat is a great TF! Overall, I'm glad I took the course, if only because it was a relatively fun and unique way to fulfill the SoW GenEd.
Do all of the readings and participate in section.
Emma Dench is incredibly engaging. She really makes the material come alive. The work is not too arduous but you still learn a lot. The grading is reasonable. As an educated person, you should definitely have a basic understanding of Roman History.
Professor Dench offers a nuanced overview of Roman history. The class focuses a lot of its attention on the relationships between Romans and the other peoples of the mediterranean. There is relatively little focus on the famous individuals of Rome. It is a very thematic course. The material is manageable and the primary source readings offer varying insights into Roman history. The course allows you to banish many of the assumptions you may have made about the Roman empire based upon popular culture or myth.
This class kind of sucks -- you rush through everything, and there's no time to pause and go into certain topics in depth -- but it's ridiculously easy.
This class is absolutely amazing. In my four years here, it is in my top 3 favorite classes. I came in with no background knowledge of the subject, and now I feel like I know so much that still is relevant to today. Lectures are fantastic, and Professor Dench is such a dynamic lecturer. I looked forward to attending class every week. Make sure to attend class, because she clarifies much of the material that will be on quizzes and the midterm and final that would be difficult to learn on your own.
This class is really interesting, and Emma Dench is an awesome lecturer, but section is pretty terrible and the class does require real work.  So basically if you take it knowing it's not going to be a breeze I think it's worth the effort but if you are expecting a brainless easy gen ed this is NOT the class for you.
This class is alright.  The material is sometimes interesting but often kind of boring.  It is almost as much an anthropology class as a history class, focusing on cultural interactions between Rome and its subjects.  None of the readings are very exciting.  The TF team was wonderful, though.
Lectures are awesome! Dench is absolutely crazy and I love it!!! She's pure awesomeness!! But on a more serious note, the course materials, lectures, and sections are very interesting and informative. I came into this class thinking I knew all there was to know about the Roman Empire but I was very wrong, and I'm glad that I was. I loved this course.
Be ready to read a lot and take an exam that is more geared toward regurgitation of facts than critical thinking. However, Professor Dench is a good lecturer and the 50 minute class seems to go by quickly.
Emma Dench is the best thing to happen to Harvard since upper-class dining.
Excellent class, extremely interesting material, and Professor Dench is a superb lecturer. This course requires no background in history and can be taken by just about anyone with in interest in Ancient Rome. The readings can sometimes be tedious, but it all pays off for papers and exams when you can combine your knowledge from readings with lecture to create elegant responses to the essay prompts.
It was a little confusing.
There is a lot of reading, but you can definitely get by without doing most of it. Getting an A, however, will likely require you to do the reading.
Class is good, Professor Dench is a pretty good lecturer, but it is really important to get a good section leader because mine made the class much more difficult than the other section leaders.
There is a lot of reading that holds a lot less value in the course than the time you have to spend reading it.
It is incredible that this course provides such a thorough insight into the rise and fall of the Roman empire in the span of a single semester. Although lectures are very entertaining and informative, be sure to complete all of the section and course readings. They are the true gems of the course.
It sounded more fun than it actually turned out to be.  It was interesting at tims, but more work than I expected.
The material of this course is very interesting and I think I learned something. However, Emma Dench lectures involve far too much screaming, jumping, and theatre. While this may have been entertaining for the first week, it's continuity made attending lecture a very unpleasurable experience. Furthermore, the lecture slides are pretty bad. Most of slides are photos without labels or explanations. She also uses photos as backgrounds of the slides which makes reading them difficult. Section was useful to go over primary readings; my TF was very competent. Overall, don't take this course if you are looking for a fact based history course. The course focused on interpreting broad themes instead which left me a little bit unsatisfied in the end. The only Roman history facts I know are the ones I knew before the class.
This course can be very challenging and demanding, but it is also intriguing and fun. The teaching staff is wonderful and you will never fall asleep during lectures!
Pretty typical history lecture course, fair amount of reading but not overwhelming.
Interesting survey course in Roman history. I walked away with less specific knowledge about Rome than I was expecting, but it was a good way to familiarize oneself with history at Harvard.
Emma Dench is an incredibly dynamic professor and also accessible to even a freshman at office hours. Even though I am majoring in the math and sciences, who took the class as a general education, and was among history majors in the class, the helpful TFs and friendly professor made me feel at home.
The teaching staff do an INCREDIBLE job putting together a compelling scheme of lectures and readings. The IDs you get about every two weeks really help to link together what you've learned so take them seriously. The workload is not overwhelming.
Emma Dench is fabulous and you must take at least one of her courses while you're at Harvard.  The class was fun, I got to learn lots about Romans, and the syllabus is designed to not stress you out.  Papers are short and interesting, readings are manageable, and there are quizzes throughout the semester that make studying for the final oddly relaxing.
Professor Dench is one of the greatest professors on campus.  She generates great enthusiasm for the course information, which makes for quite an entertaining lecture.  She also invests a lot in the students and is very sincere when she mentions that she wants feedback to improve the course.
This class is fantastic. Professor Dench is engaging and thorough and has the best team of TFs working with her. Definitely take it!
A great course to learn about one of the earliest World powers!
Very enjoyable class on the Roman Empire! If you'd like to learn about a detailed overview of one of the greatest empires then definitely take this class.
If you have time to do the readings this would be a breeze - without that, it's a little harder but still manageable.
The lectures can be a bit disorganized, but Professor Dench's enthusiasm makes up for it.  The primary source readings are also very interesting.  But be aware that there are vocab quizzes in section, so you have to keep up with the important terms.
Professor Dench is amazing. Try to be in her section.
This course is a great way to fulfill the Societies of the World Gen Ed because Professor Dench makes lectures interesting, the section readings aren't overwhelming and there are only two four-page papers in addition to the midterm and final.
Take a class with Emma Dench. She defines enthusiasm and brings history to life - literally, she'll act things out. Plus, you'll learn a lot about Roman history - both the typical history things, like emperors and dates, but also about the people and what it was like for specific subgroups (the army, women, Jews) to live in the Roman Republic/Empire.
If you can get through the reading (by doing it or only sort of doing it) the class teaches you a TON about Roman history and is pretty rewarding.
A definite class to take if you need a class to relax and fulfill Gen-Ed at the same time. However, if you are likely to take classes with Study of the Past/Societies and the World Analysis multiple times, this class can seem like a waste of time.
Prof. Dench is not only an expert, but perhaps more importantly, she is extremely enthusiastic about what she is doing. This makes the course great. You get to spend a lot of time learning - and thinking - about Ancient Rome and the people in and around it, but the course is neither particularly demanding or time-consuming. It is a great choice if you are looking for a somewhat noncommittal yet thoroughly enjoyable foray into Antiquity.
I was super excited about this class because it is a very interesting topic and Professor Dench seemed like an excellent lecturer. However, this class fell short of my expectations. I have very little complaints about Professor Dench, because she is a wonderful woman and somebody who generates so much enthusiasm for her course. However, I sometimes found her bombastic style of teaching distracting and the course was very hard to follow chronologically - we jumped around a lot and it was impossible to keep everything straight. There was also extra section readings which made the reading way too much to try to do, and as a result little people did any of the reading at all.
