Any class with Akyeampong is a gem. The subject material is fascinating, and he is a terrific professor to learn from. The course is more rigorous than a typical history lecture but well worth it. A great class for that non-western history requirement or to take as a elective too!
Professor Akyeampong is a great lecturer which makes it very easy to pay attention in class, the subject matter he teaches is compelling and he has tons of fun anecdotes about important figures in W. African history (some of whom he knows personally) to liven up the material.  Erin is a super fun TF who makes section discussions interesting and casual.  Only deliverables are a midterm, a final paper, and a final exam, although if you take the class you might be expected to give a brief, informal presentation on the readings one week in section like we did.  Great course if you're interested in African history.
Great course with a fantastic professor. Worth taking if you want an introduction to recent West African history.
This class is a must-take for upper-level students interested in sub-Saharan Africa! Ekyeampong and Erin, the TF, are brilliant, but in an inspiring (rather than intimidating) way. However, this class is designed for upper-level undergrads and grad students. The lectures were accessible and interesting, but the readings were very advanced, the workload was unreasonable (and not necessary), and there wasn't much guidance on the reading or research paper ("learning how to handle this amount of reading is a very valuable skill, just figure it out"). As a freshman, I couldn't keep up. When I turned in mediocre exams and essays as a result, I got some obscene grade inflation, which is good for my GPA I guess, but which doesn't reflect a mastery of the material. Ultimately, I wish I had waited and taken the class later on. I spent a stressful and unpleasant semester experiencing how terrific Ekyeampong and Erin are and desperately wanting to make the most of the opportunity to learn from them, but I couldnt keep up.
Excellent course taught by a dynamic and fun professor who really knows his stuff.
Interesting subject matter. Good lectures. A lot of reading.
The lectures and the professor are great.  The sections were a little dry and at times tedious, and there was lots of reading.
Its kind of poorly organized and more work than an actual core course.
You learn a lot of interesting stuff.
It's unnecessarily difficult and it's easy to fall behind and hard to catch up in terms of grades.
really interesting course, excellent instructors, not a heavy workload.
If you like to sit and listen to someone talk, this class is for you. If you want to DO history and get excited about Africa, don't take this class.
This class is very interesting, though brutal.  The history is very depressing and very important; it makes you think.
This course covers a lot of material in a short amount of time, so it's really important to keep up with readings and attend all of the lectures.  But it's a very rewarding class, and I think it's definitely a subject people do not know enough about.
An interest in African history is the only thing that will pull you through the massive amounts of reading.
Emmanuel Akyeampong is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard.  This region of the world is fascinating, relevant, and important in the global history of 21st century.
The Professor is good, with good readings and interesting subject
You can get away with doing absolutely no work and still get a good grade, heck that's what I did. And Akyeampong is a dude.
This is an incredible class. The lectures are interesting and Professor Akyeampong is very engaging. This course is a great way to delve into African history.
The class involves a lot of reading but it is well worth it. Lectures are really a highlight of this course and you will find that even if you haven't done the reading, lectures will introduce you to subject areas that you may want to explore further.
Professor Akyeampong's lectures are very engaging, and the exams/assignments are very fair.
lots of different types of students can get something out of this survey course. as a concentrator in african history, i found the course to be a good introduction to the field. students with specializations other than africa or from departments other than history should find enough between the well organized lectures and the extensive reserve reading list to make it worth their effort.
A wonderful introduction to African History.
Very fun and not that hard.  Also very worth it.  You'll be surprised at how interested you end up in the subject and how awesome Emmanuel is.  He's really awesome. Johan is really chill too and a great section leader.  He's also nice and is very flexible with coming to different sections
It is really good information. I learned so much about Africa and I think it is super important. However, there was a ton of reading.
The professor is really great and the course material is really interesting. It is also great to take advantage of one of the few non-Western-focused history classes at Harvard.
I would strongly recommend taking this course, especially if you're interested in modern history. The content of this course touches upon many important global events in the last 200 years, but from the perspective of West Africa. It was my first exposure to African history, and I think the same was true of most of the class. Professor Akyeampong understands this, and is extremely friendly and helpful (definitely go to his office hours!). His lectures are both interesting and engaging (he encourages you to ask questions during them). The one downside is that there is a lot of reading, but I found that quite a bit of it was unnecessary, and you don't have to do all of the required readings to manage in the course. They often summarise the events of period but with very slightly different emphases, so reading just a few of them will allow you to manage.
While I initially signed up thinking this class would be pretty boring and was just to fulfill a concentration requirement, it was easily my favorite class of the semester and one of my favorites I've taken at Harvard. Professor Akyeampong has a brilliant generalist's knowledge of Africa and it is amply evident in the way he teaches and structures the course. The case studies are heavily tilted towards Ghana and we really learn and read more about British West Africa than about French West Africa in the course. The second half of the course will be particularly interesting for anyone who is interested in the global economy post-WWII, theory and outcomes of development policy, and students of nationalism and state-building. The reading load is pretty hefty and although you are not necessarily held accountable for completing the readings, it is definitely helpful, particularly because the lecture is so small that it is practically seminar sized and so there is a lot of time and space for questions and comments.
It is a great course and will give you deep knowledge about West Africa's history and a background for understanding its present.
The map quiz is not a joke, despite what the professor may tell youmake sure you study hard for it!  While the course is difficult due to the sheer amount of material it covers and reading involved, I was pleased to discover that, even though I often didn't manage to keep up with the readings and sometimes felt outclassed in the course (I had no prior background, whereas many students did), on the final, I was able to write intelligent, nuanced essays covering a huge portion of history on a huge portion of the African continent.  So if you like learning a lot (and I did!), you'll find the course rewarding.Also, the course is definitely more focused on British West Africa than French West Africa, which didn't bother me, but I know bothered some other students, so make sure you know what you're getting into.
If you're interested in West Africa, this is probably the only course you can find in the region so it's worth it at the very basic level for that. Otherwise, I felt like I really learned a lot -- but mostly about Ghana, which is where Professor Akyeampong is from, rather than about the vast number of French West African colonies during the second half of the twentieth century. Nonetheless, Professor Akyeampong is incredible and it's worth taking the class to hear him lecture about the subject. Liang (Moses) our TF was also fantastic, and if he's teaching again sections will be good.
The course material will effectively teach you the complex and broad history of West Africa over a century and a half's time frame. However, I would not recommend you to take this course if you have no general knowledge of African history or, if you don't, if you are not a history concentrator. I'd also caution you to rely more on the professor than the TF if you have questions on the subject matter or want to seek advice on your papers.
Very much worth your while.  An incredible journey through the modern development of West Africa
Great class, but you have to be interested in West Africa.
Excellent professor and engaging lectures- could answer any question about any topic in West Africa's history with anecdotes, historical references, dates, and resources on the matter. I genuinely enjoyed going to lecture.
Akyeampong's lectures are very interesting and easy to follow. He has clear powerpoints and outlines to every class. There is a lot of reading on the syllabus, but the amount of readings for section only is a good amount.
Realize that there is a substantial reading load that is difficult to always complete in a timely fashion due to access issues and the fact that most readings are on reserve.
Absolutely awesome class. TAKE IT IF YOU HAVE ANY INTEREST IN AFRICA, DEVELOPMENT, SLAVERY, ETC. Prof Akyeampong is really nice; he's also clear and always smiling. This is a very low pressure class. You can get away with not doing much but then you won't learn anything. Because it was low pressure, I was able to focus on the readings that I was most interested in.
I would likely recommend this course only if you have a true interest in West Africa, and even then it is a lot of information to process. STAY ON TOP OF READINGS--they pile up quick. Make connections in what you read and always ask questions if something is unclear. Utilize office hours and do not underestimate the map quiz! There is no busy work and the midterm and final are essays based on interconnecting and overarching themes (there is also a final paper). There is no busy work but make sure to participate and go to section. Professor Akyeampong is a dynamic lecturer and, if you don't have time to formally take this course, I would suggest auditing it.
I didn't know anything about West Africa coming into this class, but I learned so much in just one semester. Professor Akyeampong is an incredible lecturer and without a doubt the most knowledgeable and articulate professors I have ever encountered. The reading was often excessive and redundant, however...it can definitely be cut to half the length.
