Professor Beckert is so fun to watch.  He's incredibly excited and knowledgable about the material, and his lectures feel like episodes of miniseries, they're so well executed and crammed with information that runs the gamut from long-term, sweeping historical trends to fun tidbits of information. I was always entertained and appreciate of all the work Professor Beckert puts into the class! That being said, the final paper was horrendous: unstructured, irrelevant, and arduous.
The things that I learned were interesting.
If you're looking for an easy Gen Ed, this is not the course for you. Everyone else should take it though!
Definitely worth considering, it is a great class. Only humanities class I took at Harvard that was interesting, engaging, and fun. It is a lot of work though and you have to keep up with the readings. Overall a pretty good experience.
Everything about this course is awesome.
This was a very interesting and rewarding course but is very difficult and time consuming, especially if you are not a History concentrator and aren't super comfortable with the material.
One of the most coherent and thoughtful courses I've taken at Harvard, Hist 1457 will help you understand how things economists take to be timeless and universal are contingent upon a set of peculiar and relatively recent historical events. The readings are excellent, Beckert is a teaching god, and the TFs are committed; if you're at all historically inclined, you'll come away with a rigorous background on the vast and complex system that has shaped this country and the world for several centuries. If you're an "ec bro," you may not enjoy it, but only because you won't get it.
I really enjoyed this class. It felt like AP US History with an economic focus. The assignments were fair, and the tests were a little difficult. There is a LOT of reading, and the books are extremely important for the exams, so make sure you're up to read a book or two a week. It is manageable, but it will take dedication! Overall, a great class with a great teaching staff.
Interesting class, but a lot of reading and material. Don't take it if you're a casual bystander. If you have interest in the material though, it's an absolutely great course.
This is a very solid history course about an interesting topic.
This course gives a good survey of American economic history from the nation's founding through the present.  Don't judge it based on shopping period... those lectures are pretty dry, and it gets dramatically better after that!  Also, buy the books used or just get them out of Lamont unless you want to add them to a library someday.
Professor Beckert's lectures make taking this class worth it alone. The reading load can be heavy at time, but most of the books (which there are quite a few of) are enjoyable reads.
Professor Beckert's lectures are fantastic - take the course just for them.
This course has a great staff, but its focus is often bizarre--too many lectures on Native Americans and unions.  Virtually no discussion of capitalism post 1975 (VERY FRUSTRATING).  If you don't have Shaun as your TF, you might consider not taking it.
Far too much reading to get across a very basic series of information.
TAKE THIS CLASS. IT WAS EXTREMELY GOOD.
This is an extremely interesting close, but a significant workload. If you are interested, it is the worth the workload. If you're not sold, don't take it.
Professor is pretty dry, there is way too much reading. The topics are actually pretty interesting, and you can get away with just looking up JStor summaries to understand the books for section and exams honestly, plus reading the conclusions of the books.
Be prepared for a lot of reading, but absolutely incredible class.
Pretty interesting class. More work than you may anticipate, as there is a ton of reading along with a fair amount of assignments. The lectures are kind of boring.
This class was a major disappointment. It was not much more than AP US History with more reading. Lectures were pretty dry and section was a struggle.
I really enjoyed this course! If you like American history, then this course is really a survey of american history through the lens of economics--how capitalism contributed to shaping the country we know today. Lecture was always interesting (although be forewarned: Sven Beckert is quite opinionated,so if you aren't liberal his lecture rhetoric might be a turn off from time to time). Nevertheless, I would highly recommend taking this course--you will learn SO much, and it has a relatively light course load. Also, section (with Shaun Nichols!) was always super engaging, thought-provoking, and even fun!
There's a ton of reading, you don't need to do it all, but keep in mind that you'll be reading hundreds of pages a week.
This was the first history class I've taken at Harvard, and I loved it. The course material was great, the workload was reasonable, and the teaching staff was clearly incredibly dedicated to the topic. It was nice getting to read actual works of history, as opposed to just a textbook - the books we read were by and large very interesting and well-written. Lectures did at times feel kind of canned,though, as it seemed like Sven was more or less reading off a prepared script.
This course is very interesting if you have a genuine history in US history.  There is a lot of reading so be sure you can keep up with the reading (which usually is easy if you are interested).  Professor Beckert is great and the TFs were fabulous.
Ec 10 teaching staff like to say that a year in that course will help you understand the news that's published in the WSJ and the NYT, but I'd have to say that this course did more for me on that front than three semesters of economics here at Harvard. The themes of this course - power, exploitation, culture, markets, and labor - are fascinating ones to historicize. Lectures are well-structured, and the teaching staff overall was great. That said, it's not the world's most difficult history class. If you've taken AP US History or a similar course, a lot of the factual material will be very familiar. Essay assignments were broad, and the exams were very straightforward. The reading list is heavy, and I had a hard time keeping up with it, but you can get by even so. I wish I had had more time to read the books though - it was an excellent syllabus.
Don't stress the readings, and get ready to see America in a totally new light.
Take this class! You learn so much, even though it can be difficult at times. Favorite class I've taken.
great overview of capitalism in U.S! In depth, but also broad. I took this class a fifth course unrelated to my major because capitalism in America was something I'd wanted to learn about, and I'm leaving months later confident and knowledgeable about this topic.
Great texts, great professor, great teaching staff.
This course covers interesting topics and both Sven and the teaching fellows are wonderful. However, the actual content has a substantial overlap with AP US History and AP Macro, so it can be a bit boring at times.
If you are able to distill Beckert's liberal perspective from the actual material being presented, then this class gives a useful overview of the evolution of American capitalism. Be warned, however, that this is more "op-ed" history than it is objective history.
Unless the course structure is changed, there is an inordinate amount of work required, often adding stress without reaping the rewards of a good grade.
Sections do a great job of solidifying the complex relationship between American social trends and economic growth that lectures illustrate with vivid historic references.
Great, important course. Taught very well and accessible to anyone willing to learn. Teaching staff is exemplary.
A great introduction to history as an empirical discipline. I learned a lot more about historical methodology and American economic intellectual history than I expected or realized at the time.
Lecture and readings oscillate between engrossing and superfluous. A good TF will make it a very good class.
