Professor Jewett does a good job introducing topics regarding intellectual history and does a good job at leading discussion.  Take this course if you're interested in intellectual history but have been intimidated by it previously.  This will make you appreciate the accessibility of intellectual history and the breadth of its application (intellectual history is not just the history of philosophy).
This is a great seminar with a historiographical approach. Instead of building content knowledge, the reading engages the broad field of transnational history and helps teach you how to ask those sorts of questions. Professor Jewett provides solid feedback and leads a friendly but enriching discussion. The broad themes of the course permit you to write about almost anything you're interested in. It's a good seminar for serious history students looking to enhance their writing and research skills.
This is a wonderful course with a great syllabus that will help inform your own research and writing for the final paper. You will spend the majority of your energy for this course on your own final research paper, which means that you get to decide what you most want to learn about. Overall a very well-planned and very well-executed, well-taught transnational history coursesomething that's all too rare at Harvard. If you are interested in European and American 20th Century history and ready to do a lot of reading, writing, and talking about it, take this course!
This class is perfect because if you want to write on a topic that has any links between Europe and America in the 20th century, Professor Jewett will help provide the tools to help you write a successful paper.  The readings can be dense though...
This is a great seminar class for those interested in pursuing a postgrad degree in history. If you are someone interested in that especially in intellectual history, then this class will prepare you well both via discussion and via feedback. However, if you are looking to fill your concentration research seminar requirement, be warned that the readings are very dense and sometimes discussion can be hard to follow. Professor Jewett and Brian are great, though, they're both very approachable and supportive for the research paper and they give thorough feedback.
It is really a great opportunity to read works you may not have otherwise. Discussions are always lively and insightful.
Jewett is a great professor, supportive rather than critical, and the readings are very interesting. It's nice to have a draft read in your Junior tutorial before the final paper is turned in.
This is a great research seminar because the teaching staff is focused on the process of writing rather than the subject matter.  You will have the leeway to write on (basically) whatever you want within the WIDE parameters of the class (that way it may be good pre-thesis background) and you will get a lot of feedback about your writing process.
The weekly readings can sometimes be challenging, and they're so varied that you probably won't be interested in all of them (although some are great). But the readings aren't why you take this class--the research paper is. And the professor and TF (both of whom are awesome) do a great job of helping you all the way, and giving you the time necessary to produce something you are really proud of. Definitely worth taking just for that.
