The lectures are great and the material is extremely interesting.  You will never be bored in this class!!  The professor is an amazing lecturer, and one of the friendliest I have ever had.  The TF was also really nice.  Readings can be a bit dense, because they are all primary sources from the middle ages, but they are also interesting.  I also considered the length of readings to be very reasonable.  Assignments are pretty much constant, but there are a bunch of smaller assignments instead of one large research paper.  The main negative component of this class is the grading.  I usually do quite well in social sciences and humanities, but I struggled to get a good grade in this class.  I worked very hard, but it didn't usually pay off.  They are tough graders.  Make sure you talk to the professor and TF to make sure you understand their expectations, because they are usually not clear until after your paper is graded.  Great class all around, but be wary!
It's a little tricky to study for the final for this course because although the course is not taught in chronological order, you ultimately need to know everything you learned on a timeline scale. But once all the pieces of the puzzle fit into place, you will find you understand all the material.
Recommend to anyone with a genuine interest in medieval history
Definitely one of the best history classes I've taken at Harvard! Professor Smail is phenomenal!
this class is great if you're a medieval history nut and like studying some esoteric aspects of history
As long as you have an interest in Medieval history, it's worth taking.
Great primary source readings. Because it counted for Gen Ed, there was kind of a weird mix of concentrators and other people, so History-lovers should know that not everyone
I recommend this class for anyone who enjoys learning history from "raw data," i.e. great primary sources that are both informative and rich in interpretive possibilities. I would caution anyone who thinks this class will be a comprehensive overview of European history, though, since that was what I expected from the course.
Really interesting class with a lot of great material and topics and a really fascinating thesis. Assignments are graded hard and although this class has very broad appeal and a great welcome from Professor Smail, it is both much easier and offers more to students with a good background in History and the Medieval period. Overall, History 1060 is a really unusual class that is hard to find at Harvard.
The essays are interesting, though it is often possible to overshoot your desired scope. Try hard to focus on specific instances in time rather than general movements in history.
This is a fabulous course.  If you think the Middle Ages are boring, this course will prove you wrong.  The professor gives excellent lectures and makes a big effort to get to know each student.  Definitely an opportunity not worth missing.
Do the readings, keep up in the class, and constantly try connecting what you read to the broader themes of the course.
This course introduces you to interesting topics and questions that you probably haven't learned about in depth before; be prepared to enjoy the lectures but have some difficulty connecting the different strands of thought.
If you already know about medieval europe, this is the course for you. It's granular, it's incisive, it focuses intensely on a period of time through which, arguably, medieval Europe comes from. It's a very interesting social history, more or less, of Europe at its borders. If you want a course about castles, knights, or the like, however, this is *not* the course for you. And if you don't know what the Baltic crusade is, run like heck.
A strong history lecture-based course
Professor Smail is engaging and interesting, however the material can be confusing at times, especially with little or no background in medieval (or any) European history. The class is pretty painless however, and even with being lost 2/3 of the time you will gain some understanding of the course material!
The material is interesting, but a bit disjointed.  Great professor but he grades really hard!
This is a great class. The topic is enormous, but that's a good thing--it means you come out with a good broad background and knowledge of a lot of times and places, while still sitting in a focused framework (the viewing lens of borders). I think you also not only learn "what happened", but also how much of history is interpreting what happened--that one person's idea of medieval history is not another's. Also there was a lot of working with primary sources, which I at least always find very appealing.
It is one of the few classes at Harvard where the professor actually engages with the students.
A fun class that enters you into the medieval world.  Professor is really caring and has created a class that caters to helping students learn.
The class is simply brilliant--the material, the professor, and the TF all are very good.
Great class you will learn a lot
If you're at all interested in medieval history, this is a great class.
This is a great course for just reading a lot of sources you may never be exposed to. It's a great primer in medieval Europe and its interactions with the outside world (which really is the fun part!)
Do all the reading!
