This is a preparatory course for the intellectual history field at the History department, but it is sometimes open to graduates with interests at the cross-section of intellectual history and continental philosophy. The reading list is fantastic, the other students well read, and the professor, simply awesome.
Peter Gordon is the best! A wonderful teacher, a great inspiration, he will provide you with the key - foundational - texts in European intellectual thought (unlike so many other professors in this university who are lazy compiling any list!). In other words, Prof. Gordon follows the European ethos of passing his wisdom to the next generation while provoking, stimulating, and engaging an open-ended and always enriching conversation.
This is the kind of class everyone needs to take. The material is enormously valuable, and Professor Gordon is fantastic.
This course provides a valuable introduction with a very good professor into the history of modern intellectual history in Europe. It is quite reading intensive and one should pace themselves appropriately, particularly since it meets every other week, and other assignments come up etc. It would be ideal to hear the professor lecture more since he is such an authority on the topic, but if students are sufficiently qualified and contribute then there can be some fruitful discussions.
Intellectual History would never die, never fade away, and you should take this seminar to get a sense of that.
I would tell them that the class provides a heap of insight, intellectual stimulation, and was overall very enjoyable.
This course is great for being exposed to the great philosophers and thinkers in the modern period, particularly in the German, and some in the French, contexts. Peter Gordon (He may tell you to call him Peter since he's such a nice guy and quite courteous and unpretentious), is fantastic with a solid grasp on the material, choosing very good works for each thinker. Because he is so brilliant, his schedule appears to be often busy, so he may not be able to make every office hour. But he is very helpful and willing to meet, and he makes you feel valued as a student, which is great in a professor. Overall I'm quite happy that I took this course and definitely recommend taking courses with Peter.
I would stress above all what a great teacher Peter Gordon is. In fact, if I could change anything about this course, I would encourage Prof. Gordon to be gin each class with a short lecture by himself on the main subject. I feel that that would also allow everyone to be on the same page.
Highly advisable for advanced students in intellectual history or philosophy. Not advisable for students lacking background in these areas.
Fantastic overview of modern European intellectual history with a fantastic teacher.
excellent course for acquiring a trajectory in european intellectual history.
Take any course with Peter Gordon! He's inspiring, daring, witty, interesting, passionate, a challenger of the status quo! And the seminar is a great way to prepare for the generals in intellectual history.
