this was a great class and i hope that johnston is invited back to teach it. so intetesting and fully changed my perspective on the atomic bomb, even though he was clear that the course wasn't an ethics course, so it wasn't as if the class was trying to convince us one way or the other
Professor Johnston is great. He's a very relaxing figure, and his class did not induce any stress. With that said, the material covered in the course completely changed my perspective on the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Highly recommended.
A topic not often historically explored and is hugely significant and important in terms of WWII American history. Information learned in this course really should be more common knowledge in American schools. Loved it!
meh he won't offer it next year
A life-changing experience.  You get to see the atomic bombing on Japan from both American and Japanese perspectives.
Interesting class on World War II and the Atomic Bomb, would likely recommend to anyone interested in History. Class was not too difficult overall.
This is a great class. There are very important questions that it asks, which need to be thought out. This class provides the venue to do just that.
This may be the only time the course is offered, but I think it's a course every student that grew up in the United States should take. It explores the atomic bombings from the Japanese perspective, which is so often lost in the United States but critical to understand how the bombings affected people on both sides of the Pacific. It changed my position on the atomic bombings, and even if it does not do the same for others, it challenges students to engage with the bombings and World War II on a thoughtful level.
The professor is extremely knowledgeable in the subject and brings up completely new angles
Go in knowing you do have to do a response post on the readings before every class but Prof. Johnston is really energetic and fun to learn from. I took it P/F and it allowed me to explore a really interesting topic with a pretty low workload.
An incredible class. Covering such a controversial and convoluted subject is difficult, but Professor Johnston and Jennifer did a fantastic job at making the information accessible while still allowing each person in the class to formulating his and her own opinions. This was the epitome of what a history class should be. I only wish Professor Johnston could remain here at Harvard to keep teaching this class.
If you want to learn a ton about one of the modern era's most defining and influential moments, take this course.
Excellent class
This course offers a chance to study World War 2 from the Japanese perspective, which many classes focused on this era overlook. If you are interested in learning more about Japanese culture or the debate over the use of the atomic bomb and its consequences, I highly recommend this class.
Be ready to learn and have your perceptions about the atomic bomb and WWII changed.
This is an easy course that provides a lot of new information and perspectives about an especially notable and infamous historical event. After the midterm, though, the class can drag on a bit.
