Professor McGirr is an enthusiastic, engaged, thoughtful instructor who has selected both interesting and significant works in US historiography for the syllabus.  Her feedback is invaluable, and she is available both in class and during office hours to support your writing and learning.
Do the reading, but learn how to read smartly--read for argument. Don't be afraid to ask questions if any of the tasks for the course confuse you. And be prepared to read up on events in 20th century US history outside of class.
Take the following with the knowledge that I took this course as an undergrad and am not familiar with other graduate-level courses: This is, without a doubt, the most rewarding class I have taken so far in my academic career. It requires A LOT of reading, and Professor McGirr and your peers in the class definitely press you to refine your interpretations and to defend your arguments. At the same time, the class reaffirmed my love for history and has made me feel much stronger as a budding historian.
Books books books
Engage as much as possible in discussion.
Professor Cohen knows how to lead a great discussion while aslo making sure we touch on all the important topics of the week.
The amount of reading is daunting, but the experience is necessary for those preparing for general exams.
Cohen is fantastic.
Really the only reservation is the amount of reading, but students taking this class should know that as it is a proseminar.
This course requires a very large investment of time to digest the reading assignments together and respond to them in writing.  However, this class is essential for any graduate student wishing to consider a research project during this time period.
Be prepared to put in a lot of work!
Tons of reading but well worth the effort, particularly w/ Prof. Cott teaching.
It is required for U.S. History PhD students. For those outside of the field, the readings may be relevant (particularly if you focus on 20th century), but one should bear in mind that the readings will be focused tightly on history as it occurred within a national framework (to a possibly parochial extent).
This is an AWESOME class! Do the readings and you will come out feeling like a million bucks!--historically, that is.
This class has a lot of reading, but it covers a lot of ground and is good preparation for general exams.
This course covers a lot of ground, and is required for most of the students in the class. This course does require a lot of time and effort, but for the breadth if covers, the course is efficient and beneficial.
It will be stressful, time-consuming, and extremely difficult -- but for all that, you will emerge from its trials as a significantly stronger historian.
Andrew Jewett does an excellent job with this proseminar!
Lots of reading.
Reading quantity is high.  Also you should not enroll if you have reservations about speaking in class.
This is a great course to prepare for exams, but it requires a great deal of dedication and willingness to participate.
The reading is overwhelming and somewhat repetitive (esp for the New Deal), but the course will dramatically expand you're understanding of the period. Be prepared, though, to be very hesitant to raise your hand.
This class is extremely intense.  If possible, try to minimize your overall course load so you can devote sufficient time and mental energy to this course.
Nancy Cott is a phenomenal teacher.  This course has a lot of reading, but it's worth it if you put in the work and want to learn.  Definitely take this course if you are interested in learning more about the 20th century.  Something I learned at the end of the course, don't be afraid to share your opinion, even if it's not going to be popular.  At times it felt like students (including myself) were giving interpretations of the work that were "safe."  But this approach limits the conversation and makes for a very one-sided perspective.  Don't be intimidated!  Professor Cott is truly invested in student learning.
Because this is a graduate survey course, general topics will be covered and not necessarily specialized topics.
Jewett is great. He led discussions well and made the reading material very engaging. His enthusiasm for the subject came through. I really enjoyed every aspect of this course.
