This course is great for those interested in a more in-depth look and the policies of Nazi Germany. Great History course
This class is dope.
This was my favorite class at Harvard! The history of Nazi Germany is incredibly fascinating and studying the past is important in helping us understand the present and not let atrocities like the Holocaust ever come close to happening again. The lecture was always engaging and the course materials may be long, but are some of the most interesting readings I've done. You will love this class.
Really interesting, and there's not a lot of work.
This class has a lot of readings, its helpful to do these but not very important.
This class is awesome!! It is the best class I have taken so far at Harvard--I am so sad that it is over!The workload is large but not stressful, Professor Timpe's lectures are great, and I had a fantastic section experience.  Even if you are not a history concentrator, you should definitely take this class!
Great class
Worth taking, really enjoyed learning an important part of 20th century history.
Great course if you are interested in the Holocaust or World War II. The amount of reading was a bit too much, but overall the readings were interesting.
Lecture is great. The readings are great. The thinking you do outside of class is great. Section and assignments, not so much. It felt like we were always wrong and nobody was telling us how to be right.
Professor Timpe and her lectures are interesting and instructive. The class inspired many conversations outside of lecture. However, be prepared for harsh criticism and detailed critiques with your assignments.
It a great course that looks at the history of Nazi Germany in depth and really questions the mentality of the regime and the people under it as well as looking at the facts.
An incredible class. The lectures are interesting, the readings are just as good, and the TFs as well as Professor Timpe are enthusiastic about the subject matter and are always willing to help and they give awesome feedback on your assignments.  One of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard.
If you are going to take a class on Nazi Germany, this is a good one to take. Having a native German professor definitely added a new dimension to lectures, etc. That being said, if you aren't independently interested in Nazi Germany, I might chose a different history class.
If you want to explore how the Nazis seized power and won over the hearts of Germans, take this class.  It is very comprehensive and you will learn a lot.  Jamie is a great TF and Professor Timpe is very knowledgable and approachable.
Awesome class. The lectures are super interesting, the readings are super manageable and there are not that many assignments at all. The midterm was also really fair and you could do well if you just came to class every day.
History 1272 was perhaps one of the best history courses I've taken at Harvard. The material is very interesting, and Professor Timpe's lectures are awesome. Very reasonable assignments too.
This is a perfect course. Professor Timpe is an outstanding lecturer and all of the readings are really interesting. She is also organized and clear, you need to know a lot but it's interesting and she's explicit! In section we had some really fascinating discussions and it was always a lot of fun. I couldn't recommend this course any more, especially for someone interested in history.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!! The professor is amazing, and the subject is so fascinating.  Overall, a great experience and so worthwhile- one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
This class is definitely interesting, and provides a great overview of WWI and the Holocaust particularly addressing whether the Germans consented or were coerced into following the Nazi regime. I found the lectures to be very insightful and interesting, and the sections to be engaging. I would only caution against the primary source papers, which were due before we had discussed them in class (little time to complete them), and then they were graded toughly.
