One of the coolest classes I've taken at Harvard. You get to read Jared Diamond and Clan of the Cave Bear!
Very very interesting material and great discussions. Be ready to feel a little bit uncomfortable with evidence in this course - claims are sometimes made with little backing, but its interesting to speculate and bring so many disciplines together.
if you are interested in the cross section between history and biological anthropology, this is the course for you.
Best class I've ever taken.  Get ready to ask some big questions about humanity.  This course will help you understand what has shaped the course of our species - the untold stories of our earliest ancestors. It will also help you understand yourself better.
This class is one of the first classes that pushes the boundaries at Harvard. It pushes you to break traditional concepts of history and biology and asks you more.
Professor Smail is great and if you are wanting to try something different and unique, this class was a great experience.  The readings and course material was very interesting and something that you are not usually exposed to.  But at the same time, looking at Natural History ended up being a very discussion-based and philisophical study where we renegotiated the meanings of "history" and "narratives" themselves.  The course writing and reading is also very malleable to your interests if you are able to think creatively, and many different historical themes can be studied through the perspective and questions this class brings to light.
This is the most unique and important history course at Harvard.  Where else do you get a chance to connect the broadest perspective on human history with topics that remain relevant in modern life (sexuality, violence, status, gossip, etc.)?  Just take the course.
This course is an incredibly interesting foray into all different topics of natural history. It is a unique opportunity, as a history concentrator, to read literature in different fields (anthropology, biology, sociology) and to set them in a historical context. Professor Smail will challenge you to reconstruct the traditional historical framework presented in most other classes and will encourage you to reevaluate your fundamental beliefs. You will also bend the definition of history in this class, so be warned, if you are a traditionalist, you might have issue adjusting to class discussion and to the response papers. There is no clear historical narrative in this course, so be ready to jump from topic to topic each week. However, this is a great class if you're looking to be reminded what it is like to study and learn for the sake of learning. Professor Smail is one of the best teachers I have encountered at Harvard, and it would be a loss to miss an opportunity to take a seminar with him.
This course has really prompted changes in my own thinking about what history might be. It's reached the point where I think people are nuts NOT to be talking about deep history. I really can't recommend it highly enough; it's a good bit of work, but really worth it.
TAKE. THIS. COURSE. It's an incredible mish-mash of ideas and topics from across history, anthropology, neuroscience, biology, ecology and a host of other disciplines. Professor Smail is eminently accessible, takes interest in each student's background and beliefs, and provides excellent and thorough feedback.
Dan Smail is one of the most interesting professors at Harvard. I think for most people, taking this course felt like a bit of a risk, but I would wager every single one would agree it was one of the most important courses any student (regardless of whether they concentrate in history) could take in their four years here. You will learn a great deal about human history through anthropological, geological, biological and psychological readings that are quite accessible and extremely enlightening. It gives a really holistic view of history as a discipline and was of infinite valuable to me.
A unique course that gets at the most fundamental questions of human history viewed over the broadest stretches of time. A fascinating and alternative insight into different ways of doing history, and testament to the value of interdisciplinary study between the sciences and humanities. While challenging and occasionally radical, the course should trigger the interest of virtually any intellectually-driven student.
This is an incredible course that will change the way you think about history. Dan Smail's enthusiasm about the subject is contagious, and even if you do no further work in deep history, your awareness of this new perspective will improve your work.
The classroom environment was intimidating, scary, and upsetting.  Do not take this class if you ever think or care about gender, and if you're not extremely interested in natural history and science.
It's enthralling. It's exciting. It will ruin your life.
TAKE IT. Smail is awesome, and you learn a lot about a topic new for almost everyone. It's a great sandbox to play around with ideas.
Unless you are willing to read, don't take this class.
It requires a ton of reading, and if you have not done all of it for class, you will embarrass yourself.
It is a lot of work but it was one of the most rewarding classes I have ever taken.
This is an uncommon class at Harvard - it teaches a relatively unknown (and constantly evolving) subject in a very compelling way.
This course is intense, in its workload (tons of writing!) and the way that it forces you question everything you take for granted about human history. It's entirely interdisciplinary and brings in fields and texts that you would never expect to read in a history class. Be prepared to defend or adapt your beliefs as the class progresses. It's heavily discussion based and the discussion moves rapidly, so be assertive and don't get tossed to the wayside!
It's more work than Reading Seminars normally are. Try to plan out the assignments so that you don't have to do them in quick succession but can have a few intervening days to cleanse the intellectual pallet.
Great professor, huge open-ended topic to delve into. Intensive reading and heavy workload.
The best course I've taken at Harvard.
This class is challenging, but Professor Smail is highly passionate about the subject matter and you will be challenged to think in new and exciting ways. The subject of deep history is under-studied in the rest of the department, and if you are interested in gaining a glimpse into an entirely new world of historical inquiry, take this class.
