Very good course. Prof. Koll is a delight and a half. The grading is not terribly hard, but it's fair... which makes it harder than some things. Take this course if you already have knowledge of modern and pre-modern Chinese history, and if you're interested in exploring early-modern economic history. Also, this is a good course for working on your research/writing ability because Koll is very helpful in that regard also.
This is a seminar with a very lively discussion section.  The readings are very very long but if you can get through them, Professor Koll does a good job of making the 2 hours go by quickly.
Phenomenal class! Definitely take a class with Professor Koll if you have any interest in this subject area!
The readings are really well-selected. Each week has a unifying, and very relevant, theme.
This is a love it or hate it class. If your method of analysis and generally, your opinions, aligns perfectly with the professor's, great. If not, you will struggle very much in this class unless you are willing to conform your methods of analysis, writing, and general opinions to hers. The professor is also not shy about shooting you down completely if any these elements (structure, method of analysis, or argument) are out of line with hers, which means even if your argument is valid, you may still be dismissed.
I completely enjoyed this course, with its wonderful material and Professor Kll's open teaching style. I would highly recommend any course with her as a professor, and I especially point out that having her in a seminar format was particularly helpful for learning.
This class will give you great insight into an often overlooked portion of Chinese history: the establishment of the Chinese state in 1911-1949.  It's a very niche class, and the small seminar nature of the course means good preparation of appropriate readings will only help everyone get conversation flowing. And the professor is so open-hearted, incredibly interesting life story, and as an HBS associate professor, she has a funny view of both the bubbles on campus that she works with.  Highly encourage taking the class if you are interested in a small seminar class with a China focus, with  an engaged, inclusive professor who wants her student to succeed and enjoy what they write about .
