This is an easy course where you also learn quite a bit if you do the minimal amount of work.  However, the downside to this course is that the level of easiness will attract students who don't even do the minimal amount of work so it isn't very academically engaging.
Take it. It's such a great introduction to a period that isn't always super easy to understand without someone guiding you through it. Sometimes Martin's lectures are a little unclear, but the TFs were really helpful with guiding their sections through questions. The readings are really fantastic primary sources. I feel like a smarter human after taking this course.
Lectures were interesting, but often seemed to wander - I feel that they could have been structured in a more coherent manner. Often concepts could have been explained a little better (names and past events sometimes blurred together). The reading list was really interesting though, and the weekly assignments did a good job getting me to thing about the material in more detail.
This course gives a comprehensive history of the Soviet Union from about 1965 to 2000.  Unfortunately, Professor Martin structured the course according to his own thesis about the fall of the Soviet Union: that it was brought about mostly by Gorbachev.  Moreover, the course spends hardly any time discussing the effects of the West on the fall.  We barely discussed the Arms Race, Ronald Reagan, Margaret Thatcher, or other Western leaders.
If you want to learn about Communism and how it collapsed, this class is it.  It was a period of history I did not know much about, and I am glad I do now what really happened in the USSR and Eastern Europe.  Martin is a great guy who loves his subject.  The assignments are papers and they're very doable.
I loved this class! Professor Martin's lectures were amazing- they were always engaging and always had an interesting thesis on which the lecture was based. I always looked forward to lecture, and found his enthusiasm on the subject contagious. The reading were mostly primary sources and were often quite fascinating, although I think the correlation between the readings and the lectures could definitely be improved. The workload was completely manageable, and the midterms and final were relatively straightforward and not very difficult. This class made me want to learn more on the subject and was a great introduction to a fascinating part of the world and period of history. I definitely recommend this course!
Make sure to do all the readings. Lectures are difficult to follow at times, but the TFs are extremely helpful and section discussions should aid in clarifying any questions.
There will be difficult names to remember
Really is an awesome way to learn about really important current history. Puts a face to the USSR that the media often does not.
This course went into a lot of detail on the dissolution of communism.
Good class, not difficult
Great class!
This class is a great way to fulfill your GenEd. There are a fair amount of readings, but you can learn to pick the most pertinent ones for writing your essays. I would recommend staying on top of the readings and even just skimming them. There are two relatively simple papers and a reasonable final. Great class, fantastic Professor with a real passion for the material he is teaching.
This course is fitting for students who wish to develop a better understanding of communism and Russia/Eastern Europe in the 20th century as a whole. Given the lecture format, the course is not particularly oriented toward in-depth independent research or graduate-level seminar-style discussion. Nevertheless, it effectively addresses the subject matter, and the professor is highly recommended.
I really enjoyed the subject, but the lectures were really tough to follow along with. Some readings were great, some not. Overall a so-so course
Great class -- took it as an elective and it was fascinating. Knew almost nothing about the Soviet Union/Eastern Europe under communism but afterwards, you walk away with a very firm understanding of how the region was shaped.
Dr. Martin is one of my favorite professors at Harvard. He is a great lecturer, and it's worth taking a course with him. The assignments are not hard, but there is a lot of reading, so if you don't find the subject interesting it's better to skip this course. That being said, most readings are primary documents, which I personally loved about this class.
Some readings took quite a long time, but as long as you do them and know how to write essays, you can get a good grade. Easy overall, but lectures were boring. Also, Professor Martin is wonderful but speak too fast without any visual help (e.g. writing on the board or lectures slides) so that it's hard to tell the important information. Provided lecture outlines were absolutely useless. I learned much more about communism though.
Have an understanding of the Soviet Union up to the 1950s before attending. Google it!
This class allows students to understand how communism and the Soviet Union collapsed. However, the class challenges the students to develop their own opinion on the collapse of communism and support their claim using the material that was learned in class.
very interesting course, not too difficult, Professor Martin delivers unique lectures and is very personable
Readings are very dull, and lectures can be hard to follow and understand.  This wasn't a huge deal as the material was primarily just memorizing a timeline of events and understanding how those event effected the Soviet Union.
Good class with not too difficult assignments. Lectures and readings were often boring though. Getting a good TF is key. I got way more out of sections than I did out of lecture.
Terry Martin is a fantastic lecturer, and he picks a good selection of primary texts to supplement his lectures.  This class is particularly amazing when taken after his other class, History 1280, which covers the history of the Soviet Union.
In order to understand the course's many readings, be sure to first attend the relevant lecture. If you try to read ahead without consulting other resources, you might not immediately understand the full importance of the primary sources.
Great course. The reading can get a little out of hand and we had weekly response papers to the reading. This wasn't in the syllabus so be aware of that. The course itself covers a wide range of topics and gives a great look into what life was like in the Soviet Union as well as how the Soviet Union (and Communism) collapsed. Really good gen ed course to take.
This is such a smooth course that you won't be stressed by it if your course load is heavy!
Straightforward and informative course that is easy if the proper work is done.
Professor Martin is great Very interesting material and readingManageable amount of work
easy, interesting, crazy professor
attend lectures, follow the readings, and you will enjoy this course
I have very limited history background, and this class was definitely manageable. I learned a lot about Communism in the Soviet Union, and I enjoyed the class because the history is so recent so it has clear relevance today.
Fun class for those interested in the subject matter
good class
Great class, very manageable work load
This class gives a solid introduction to the ideas and historical trends driving the end of communism in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. I would recommend it to anyone looking to fulfill a general education requirement with an interesting history course. The course itself was very rewarding with the concepts and themes that it introduces.
This is a pretty standard course. You can skate through with pretty minimal effort and wont learn much or you can do all the reading and participate a learn a lot. Take it if you're interested in the subject (Professor Martin is very enthusiastic and great!) but this class probably wont "change your life."
This is a great class to take if the topic truly interests you. Professor Martin is incredibly knowledgable and enthusiastic about the subject, which makes lectures captivating. His anecdotes and jokes are the icing on the cake! This class is also not very demanding when it comes to the workload, and the readings are varied and completely manageable. However, things could be a little more organized since they sometimes appear to be too relaxed. Don't rely on the syllabus to tell you what the next lecture will be about because Professor Martin likes to move at his own place, which is slower.
Decent course...runs out of material after 9 weeks or so, and the lectures from mid-November onward are fairly disposable. Hopefully that will change in future years, as the material on Communism itself through 1991 is quite interesting.
This is a fun, unusual history class. Professor Martin is an entertaining oddball. I enjoyed lectures. Sometimes heavy amounts of reading were assigned, but I found I could participate in section even when having whittled it down to more moderate levels. The three essays were straightforward and relatively free in terms of topic. It was a privilege to discuss the readings with the bright kids in my section. The readings put you in the mindset of the average Soviet citizen, a perspective that was lost to us for fifty years. It was intriguing to study the rise and fall of a modern empire, and analyze what makes and breaks world powers.
I would only recommend this class to those who have some background in Russian history, and a strong interest in the history of the soviet union. This course is not an intro to Communist theory, and there is no central text to help connect the lectures, so I would not recommend this course to students who have no background in the subject.
The End of Communism is an awesome class! The lectures are full of information, engaging, and witty; sections help pull together facts from lecture and primary sources and other readings. The reading load is heavy but manageable. Basic background knowledge of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, 1956-1991, is helpful(AP European History helped a lot).
Great survey about Socialism and the forces that conspired to take down the USSR. If you have any interest in learning about this, then I highly recommend considering this course. Moderate work load, very accessible, and knowledgeable teaching staff.
Take this class if you want a comprehensive overview of Communism in the USSR and Eastern Europe. Professor Martin is a good-humoured, accessible professor who clearly cares about the material and is concerned about the legacies that the USSR's fall in world politics today. The course does not develop your approach to history/historiography, but it does make sure that you have the events and dates down solid. Workload is quite reasonable, as long as you know which readings to skim and which ones to go through carefully. The TFs were generally quite helpful and available during office hours.
Very interesting and engaging material with great faculty.
This is a low-commitment survey course about the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the collapse of Communism. If you are looking to have in-depth knowledge about the period of history though, this might not be the course you want to look at.
Great class! Very knowledgable TFs and an enthusiastic professor. The coursework for this class is pretty manageable, as well. It's important to keep up with lectures and readings though- it can be easy to fall behind with so much material and information.
The Soviet union has a fascinating history
the material could be interesting except lectures are confusing and hard to follow. Readings and lectures dont provide enough background info on course.
Good for a general education requirement even though it is listed as a history course.  Very little work actually due, just a 250 weekly response, and two 1500 word essays.  I'm a CS major and did fine in this class having taken no history course since high school.
This course is very interesting without requiring a lot of work. The lectures are interesting, and my section leader was very good. A good gen-ed course.
This is a fine way to get your SW gen. ed. out of the way, but not a great history course.  The class size was huge and the teaching staff seemed unprepared for it as the sections were also too large.
Fun class for anyone interested in the Cold War.  Very interesting readings and discussions for section.  Not too much work for a history class.
Not too demanding, but you need to have personal interest to keep yourself invested.
skim the readings and pay great attention in lecture/ take impeccable notes. The assessments are heavily weighted towards lecture.
This class focuses on an interesting and important topic in world history, but I found this class a little too detail-oriented rather than focusing on themes and concepts that would've made this a really fantastic history class. There were also way too many readings, many of which made me wonder why we were reading them. Some of the lectures also seemed a little bit repetitive or anachronistic.
This course is a great way to learn about the history of communism from around 1953 to 1991, and I would highly recommend this either to history concentrators or others looking for a compelling and useful GenEd.
Honestly this class was kind of jokey. I would recommend it only because it did not require much and is still possible to get a good grade. But overall, the lectures dont match up with the course readings and the lectures were very scattered and kind of boring.
Good class, not too hard, a fair amount of reading but not excessive. The Professor is a bit nutty but I think he legitimately cares about the subject and wants to teach the students all about it. He's just sometimes too enthusiastic, and he has a weird obsession with soft budget constraints and bank run theory. Either way, it's a good class on a subject that's very important for understanding Russia today as well as modern European history. It was a fascinating class. The essays aren't hard and the sections aren't bad either. You have to be prepared for section by writing a response each week which is great because people are actually ready to talk when they get to class.
A cool class with subject matter.  Good professor and TF
It's a fantastic course that explores a very interesting time period in world history. If you have an interest in Cold War history or ever wanted to learn more about the Soviet Union, Prof. Martin is excellent and you will learn a lot and enjoy the course reading!
Lectures aren't really necessary for the midterms, final or even section participation. Soooo
