Fun and doable assignments. Professor Lewis is extremely informed and accessible and the workload is manageable. Take if you have an interest in French policy and themes--if you're looking for specifics or deep cultural analysis, the course be a little bit broad.
This class was an interesting way to discover French history from 1870. There is much reading to do on a weekly basis, but the materials are interesting with many different styles of writing (including fiction, memoirs, and more traditional textbook-style). Discussion is a major part of both lecture and section, so it is really important to stay on top of the readings. The assignments were enjoyable to create and allowed us to look at history in both biased and unbiased ways with respect to the Dreyfus Affair, World War II, and a topic of our choice. As a class, we would discuss the projects and attempt to combine all of our individual work into a collaborationist piece, adding another interesting dimension to the assignments. Both Professor Lewis and Lydia are extremely engaging and knowledgeable, and I have been lucky to learn so much from them about the history of France and its Empire, as well as about the creation of history in general.
Definitely take this class If you are interested in issues of imperialism, decolonization, and immigration to Europe. Reading material is great (though it may seem a bit daunting), and the assignments are more engaging than the usual paper. I also enjoyed the very small size of the class.
This is a fantastic course! I would recommend it for anyone interested in French history as well as French concentrators.  It covers French and French-colonial history from 1870 to the present.  The class was quite small, which made for great discussions and a close-knit environment. Professor Lewis and Lydia were always willing to meet, were engaging, and provided helpful feedback. Perhaps the best part of the course is that it requires "non-standard" assignments, like writing about an artifact from the Houghton Library archives, creating a World War II newsreel broadcast, and writing an interactive online chapter of a "book." The readings also include works of fiction and other texts that you might not otherwise read in a history class. Definitely take it!
Heavy reading. Be ready to participate in discussions.
This class is not just about French history.  It's about the question "What constitutes a nation?" and how the answers shift over time.  As a result, it's helpful for thinking more deeply about France and history in general.
Interesting and comfortable class
It was very evident that the class was being taught for the first time but this class has a lot of potential. The TF is superb and he clearly was the leader throughout the whole class. The readings are interesting and relevant (though long) and the assignments were a nice break from the usual history papers. Take the class.
This is a really dynamic course. The teaching staff is awesome and super invested. It was a pretty small course (<20 people) so it ended up being a sort of hybrid lecture-discussion course. Lectures are very interesting and use a lot of multimedia sources. The readings are great; they sometimes seem like a lot (occasionally a book a week), but are always pretty quick and approach the subject of the week in a new way. The assignments end up being pretty fun because they have a digital component and you spend time talking about each other's work. The themes of the course are really interesting and connect and recur in really interesting ways. Overall, I highly recommend for anyone with an interest in French history, colonialism, or historical memory.
Yes
If you are at all interested in French history or the history of colonialism and minority integration more generally, take the course. It also provides a great overview of French ideas of the nation.
I thought it was an interesting class and good way to learn about French history. The lectures and sections are rarely dull! That being said, sometimes Professor Lewis forgets that the class might not be the only thing going on in your life (occasionally, the readings are incredibly long, and feel only tangentially related to the themes of the class).
This class was very enjoyable and not too difficult.  It provided a good general background on French history from 1870 to the present, while delving more deeply into certain themes and issues.  There is quite a bit of focus on the French colonial empire, as well as France itself.  While the class is considered a lecture class, it was so small that it almost felt like a section or seminar (indeed, we got in a circle and had a seminar-style discussion on several occasions).  Professor Lewis and Andrew are both very dedicated and really care about their students.  My only criticism would be that the class was somewhat disjointed toward the end, although the organization may improve in the future, since it was a new course this year.
Energetic instructor, engaging questions.
This is a very good survey course in French history from 1870 to the present. I consider myself to be well-versed in the history of France, and yet this class taught me a lot more. It provides a very good framework to think about the French Empire as well, and in particular, the think about history from the perspective of memory. The material might feel a little disconnected at times, but the readings were great and the assignments a lot of fun. I would consider it a good, but painless way of learning more about the French and its Empire, with a particular focus on Algeria rather than the whole of the Empire. Take it if you are interested in French history and don't mind doing some digital assignments.
In general, this is a great course! Mary Lewis is a fantastic lecturer and really knows her stuff, though she is sometimes a bit out-of-touch with what might be going on in an average undergraduate's life.  The course is well organized, and the digital assignments are really fun, unique and don't take up too much time. There is a lot of reading which requires a significant commitment each week, so I definitely wouldn't recommend it as a "easy" course, but still the reading is well worth the time to do it right.
