Professor Koll is an absolutely incredible lecturer, and she generates so much enthusiasm for a topic that might not otherwise be the most exciting. If you have any interest in Chinese history, or just understanding China's current sociopolitical situation, take this class!
This course is a must if you aren't particularly familiar with Chinese history, because it provides you with great background to understand the position of China in the world today.  Professor Koll and Peter were great.  Though lectures weren't always organized in the clearest fashion, section cleared up the details, and the primary source documents were fascinating.  The grading is very fair, especially for a humanities course, and the assignments were interesting.
You should have:
Enthusiasm and curiosity about China! Open-mindedness to put yourself in the shoes of the "other." Critical analysis skills which you will further develop and critical synthesis skills which Chen Village and Spider Eaters (primary sources) in particular hone. 
Also, talk to Professor Koll and Peter are marvelous and you really learn so much from their first hand accounts in those countries.
Keep up with readings
One of the best courses I have ever taken. Professor Koll is perhaps the most engaging instructor that I have had at Harvard. She is passionate about this subject and is so accessible. Everyone should take a course on China, and this is the one to take.
Fantastic introduction to modern Chinese history that helps you gain much more insight and understanding of China today. Professor Koll is a fantastic instructor who consistently gives compelling, entertaining, and interactive lectures.
This class gives an excellent perspective on the major themes and developments within China during the 20th century. It gives one an excellent foundation for understanding China today. Professor Koll is a fantastic lecturer, and is one of the more engaging and better teachers I've had at Harvard. Take this course.
I consider myself somewhat of a Chinese history buff, but before taking this class I knew relatively little about modern Chinese history. Professor Koll is one of the most engaging instructors I have had here and the material was fascinating and informative. There is nothing about this course that would keep me from recommending it.
This is a really fantastic course! Professor Koll is a very engaging lecturer who cares a lot about students in the class. The class really gives you a better understanding of modern China. Readings and writing assignments were fair and Peter did a great job as our TF.
This course is great if you have a background in chinese history. Otherwise, it can be a struggle to understand all the primary sources. Lectures are fantastic though, and the teaching staff is amazing.
Truly a great class. Excellent lectures and sections--definitely take if you have any interest in Chinese history.
This was a fantastic class that I thoroughly enjoyed. I came in with no Chinese history knowledge looking to gain some, and this course was great for understanding what happened in China and why they happened. The assignments are great; this class, with a low workload and very interesting topic, was a pleasure to be enrolled in
A history tutorial of some sort would have helped me a lot. Although I felt that I knew a lot about modern China, lacking a background in historical analysis made the course more difficult for me than I thought it would. That being said, Professor Koll and our TF Peter were very helpful during office hours.
Great class, Professor Koll is fantastic
I came into this course knowing nothing of Chinese history and feeling quite out of my comfort zone. Professor Koll's lectures were wonderful about no presuming prior knowledge without lowering the complexity of the material. The entire course was well thought out and easy to follow. All of the course components--the lectures, the sections, the readings and the assignments--overlapped nicely to create a cohesive picture. The course was challenging, but doable in a large part thanks to the people involved. This is such a solid class.
Great class. The lectures and sections are fantastic. I had never studied any part of Chinese history before and I found this class to be really interesting. It's one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
I adored this course! If this is offered, take it while you have the chance! Elizabeth Koll is a lovely professor and all of her lectures are both interesting and passionate. This is a real treat to take, and the workload isn't too difficult.
It's a good course on the history of China in the 20th century.
This is a great course! I knew little about Chinese history entering this course, but I came away both with knowledge about events and an understanding of the historical explanations for China's developments. Prof Kll cares about the students and leads sections herself, and can offer a lot of guidance if you have particular interests.
Professor Koll is an extremely accessible guide on this high-level, fascinating synthesis of modern Chinese history.  The discussions and readings are interesting.  Given what I've heard from friends, I would choose this over SW11, for those debating which course on Chinese history to take.
This is one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard. Prof. Koll's excitement and lecture style makes every lecture wonderful. Make sure to do all of the readings assigned as the section is taught by Prof. Koll, and you will not get as much out of section and the class if you don't do the readings.
TAKE THIS CLASS! This class was such a joy to take, and I feel like I've actually walked away from this class with both a deep understanding of the material and new perspectives and ways of thinking about history and current international events. This class really has the perfect trio: an enthusiastic and passionate professor who really cares about teaching and her students' educational experience, a classroom vibe that is just really enjoyable and fun, and class material that is just so interesting and relevant. SUCH A GREAT CLASS!
Really great course! We somehow managed to hit all the big changes that have occurred over the last hundred and twenty years in China, and tied them together by considering some larger narratives. The course deepened my understanding of this period even though I knew quite a lot already about this period in Chinese history. Professor Koll's lectures are easy to follow and interesting; she doesn't post lecture slides though, so it's crucial to attend lectures and take notes
Engaging and useful course on 20th century Chinese history. I would say some background in Chinese history/background is useful though, because there is no real textbook, and most of the readings are primary sources. Prof. Koll is super excited about the topic and is an awesome instructor.
If you want to understand the roots of the Chinese phenomenon, this is the class for you
Great class
This was a very good course. Tommy and Professor Ghosh brought a lot of enthusiasm to lecture and section. I really enjoyed the opportunity to learn about and read texts by Mao Zedong. From a philosophical/political point of view, understanding his conception of communism is really important to understanding world history and modern China. Most of the primary source readings are quite short and all are very interesting. The timeline assignment, while it feels tedious at times during the semester, is really helpful in reviewing for the final exam (all of the IDs were from the timeline).
This is a great class! Professor Ghosh is really nice and a good lecturer. Tommy is probably the most enthusiastic TF I've had at Harvard, and I actually looked forward to section discussions. I would strongly encourage taking this class if you have any interest in Chinese history.
A really good, well-rounded overview of 120 years of the most recent Chinese history
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard so far. If you're at all interested in China or curious about its history, rise, and coming to the role it has in the world today, I would highly recommend this course. I personally entered with a fair amount of prior China knowledge (which is not at all necessary), but still feel like I learned a huge amount. Lectures were fascinating and enjoyable, and Professor Ghosh is incredible - he really cares about the course and the material, and makes lectures interesting - something I looked forward to going to twice a week. This was a fascinating and very enjoyable course that I would definitely recommend!!
This was my favorite class by far this semester! Lectures were always interesting and Professor Ghosh was always open to questions during his lectures. I came away with a broad understanding of China's complicated history over the past century, including key events, movements, important intellectual, political, economic figures as well as how China's place in the world changed during this time. Definitely a class to take!
This is a great class if you want to gain an in-depth understanding of Modern Chinese history. Professor Gosh is a clear and engaging lecturer and likes to use class time for discussion, too. This class definitely helps contextualize what we see about China in the news these days!
This course will teach you more than you ever thought there was to know about Modern Chinese history. The lectures move quite quickly, but you'll definitely end up with a good sense of 20th century China.
This class is a great way to expose yourself to Chinese history, but beware: if you want to really engage with the course, there is a lot of reading. Also, you will be on the best footing if you already have some background in Chinese history/language/culture; I did not, and felt very lost most of the time.
This class satisfies literally zero requirements for me, but it was absolutely worth it. I'm ABC and my heritage has always been very important to me, but even for non-Chinese students, China is (objectively) absolutely fascinating and unquestionably important in the global scene. The class doesn't have too high of a workload and the assignments are all meaningful. Section is great and the teaching staff is highly knowledgeable.
Fantastic course, especially if you're interested in filling a distribution requirement. Prof. Ghosh, Tommy, and Anne-Sophie are all care a lot about their teaching; they're also all effective in lecture and section. I learned a ton about modern Chinese history (which also seems fairly relevant to the world right now), while benefiting from the light workload. The bulk of the reading is in short primary source documents, with three longer books that are, if not page-turners, interesting enough to read in a few nights. Would highly recommend taking it.
If you're considering history or are interested in the general span of history of China, this is a fantastic course for you. Readings aren't too hard, and this course is very much focused on nailing down some of the larger themes in Chinese history. Just don't expect to be an expert in Chinese history by the end of it. In term of assignments, the timeline assignments were kind of annoying and not super informative, but they were free points for the most part. Section is really the highlight of this course.
Harvard doesn't offer enough history surveys, and this solid course is an argument why there should be more. You'll walk away with not only a working knowledge of modern Chinese history, but analytical tools to learn far more by yourself.
Great course meant as an introduction to Modern China - no background knowledge of China or the Chinese language necessary. Professor Ghosh and Tommy (TF) are great teachers who are very dedicated to the course material! Highly recommend
Great course! You will learn a lot about the establishment of the PRC, though the latter half of the course (post-1949) could have been better organized. The teaching staff is phenomenal and highly knowledgeable, and the class has a good mix of traditional lectures, group activities, and videos/other media that help prevent what could have been a really dry history course.
This is a fantastic class that I recommend taking. There is a significant amount of reading and assignments - though never more than reasonable - and it is really so intellectually rewarding to complete all of them thoroughly. Professor Ghosh is so knowledgeable and makes himself very available to the students. I learned so much from this class on a topic that I really knew nothing about.
This is a wonderful course and you will come out of it having really learned the history of modern China. I was ignorant to most of the events discussed in class, but learned so much. Take the timeline entries seriously, write a good final paper, and make sure that you understand the material for the midterm. You will do well.
Lectures can be slightly boring at times but if you are interested in Asia I would highly recommend taking this course.
This course is a great introduction to 20th century Chinese history. Prof. Ghosh is great, and the assignments are not too stressful. If you're a history concentrator, take this for your non-Western history requirement!
Definitely take this class! You will walk away with a very well rounded, unbiased, and in depth understanding of Chinese history and culture throughout the 20th century.
good one
I took this class knowing very little about China and am so glad to have the background I do now.  Professor Ghosh is a very knowledgeable lecturer and doesn't waste your time in lecture.  Josh is an amazing TF and packed every section with useful information and worked very hard to facilitate discussion.   This is a fascinating topic and the class is a fairly low stress way to gain exposure (a midterm, final and some weekly responses).
This class is good to get started with modern Chinese history, as an introduction.
This is a great course for students with little or no background in Chinese history!
This class was pretty easy. Readings are not absolutely necessary, but of course they will help tremendously. Listen carefully in lecture and in sections, tae careful notes, and you should be good. Midterm and final should not be terribly hard as long as you do that and study! Also, Professor Ghosh is a great lecturer in my opinion, and Josh was a fantastic TF!
Modern China provides a great and thorough overview of China's history over the past hundred years. The course primarily focuses on social and political developments, rather than economic, so it may not be for you if you're looking to understand China's current state from a business perspective. It does, however, equip you with the knowledge necessary to understand the origins of China's current social issues and understand its position at a geopolitical crossroads. I highly recommend the course for anyone who wants to consider China's modern developments from a historical perspective.
Great learning experience
Knowledgeable professor, TF (Josh) was great. If you want to have a better understanding of the chaos of China's last century of history, take this class! I was skeptical about whether this class would be interesting, but I learned a lot!
I really enjoyed this course and I thought the teaching staff was phenomenal and extremely knowledgeable. The assignments were doable, were not tedious, and helped us review/learn the material. The use of media was well integrated into the class to help convey the history.
This is a really great class, especially if you don't know much about modern China like I didn't. I think it's also good for people with prior background knowledge about China, because we spent a lot of time discussing trends and big picture ideas. A lot of reading was assigned, but as long as you skim-read each article, you can learn the big points without spending too much time. Also, section was helpful for synthesizing the huge information load - China is huge, sometimes a lot was happening all at once. You'll come away with a very thorough understanding of 20th century China, and current Chinese affairs.
