Professor Beckert will give you a clear and useful vision of the historiography, present you with both classic and cutting-edge readings, and promote lively discussion.
Come to class prepared, with a good sense of the main argument of each work, but don't be afraid to ask questions if you are confused.
There may be a lot of reading, but the work you put in really pays off each week. Excellent discussions.
Professor Johnson does an excellent job of choosing readings that are worthwhile and interesting.  The class discussion is usually very productive for students who come prepared.
Forces you to discover the possibilities of historical writing and where your commitments lie.
Quickly figure how to read and know that you can't do it all.
Worthwhile background for exams (and a requirement!) but lobby your instructor vigorously to cut people from the class. It really needs to be capped ata a bout a dozen students or so.
If your looking for a class that will give you a strong headstart in understanding all the major issues of the 19th century, this course is for you.
There is a TON of reading, but the majority of the books are interesting and Rachel is a great professor
You will be expected to read an enormous amount of material, but all of it is chosen with care and consideration, so it is generally very useful.
If you want to learn American history, and are eager to get a good grasp on the major historical problems in the field, take this course. If you have a chance to take any course with Professor St. John, do it!  Her enthusiasm for the field is infective, and her broad knowledge of the field is exceptional.
You have could take this class for one of two reasons: either to spend a very arduous semester preparing for oral exams by reading 600 pp per week, or to poach from the reading list books you have wanted to read, which was also possible, given the class size.
The class is true to it purpose as a reading course.  The course is directed at preparation for comprehensive History exams.
As with all proseminars, this course requires very heavy reading but that is necessary background and training for students who would like to continue in the History track.
Read, Read, Read!
Fantastic course for preparing for generals.
Well, it's an important/necessary class to take as a graduate student studying U.S. history.
It is a lot of reading; large class discussion can prove frustrating if not assertive; be sure and take good notes because you won't always get what you need out of the class itself.
Given that this course is a requirement for students in the American field in history, I'd omit them from this recommendation, but I'd suggest this course with the caveat that it is incredibly work-intensive.
St. John has prepared a rich and challenging syllabus, and she guides the course through it with patience and dedication.
The course is a required course for Americanist PhD students, but I would recommend any course with Rachel St. John with enthusiasm. She is a great professor--accessible, approachable, good facilitator, and smart.
