This course improves your writing. But it's not fun, especially if you don't like intellectual history. You just need to power through it.
The course was okay, but all the others looked/sounded like such incredible wastes of time that this, along with biography, should be considered the (relative) champs.
deeply rewarding class, but very intense and a little rushed.
The feedback you'll get on written work in this course is excellent, but take a good look at the syllabus to see if and how it has changed since Spring 2015.
This course was billed to me as something you had to suffer through. I'd say that while it can be frustrating at times, this course is actually pretty well designed and ultimately a very good sophomore tutorial. I came out of it better able to think about history, and definitely a better writer of history. Professor Kloppenberg and the TFs all know an exceptional amount about their subject, and are great resources.
This course was the best and most important course I have taken at Harvard! It changed the way I view everything else I study and gave me a taste of the theoretical rigor that had been missing from everything I had done before. If you're at all interested in intellectual history, you can't leave Harvard without taking this class. I wish it could be offered every year, because I can't imagine my undergraduate experience without it.
If you're interested in intellectual history and are willing to push yourself to become a better academic thinker and writer, then definitely take this course! All history 97 courses are structured to give students the same skill set training so it really comes down to the subject matter and the teaching staff which impact your experience. I had heard Hist 97 being a course students dislike when they are taking it, but they really are glad they took it when they are done. With 97b, I'd say this is true to a large extent but even though I was reading many of the texts for the first time and struggled with extensively  thinking critically about them I never disliked the course. I never regretted taking this course. The teaching staff and extremely helpful and accessible. They push you to become a better thinker and writer and these two characteristics are extremely important for a student, not just a student of history. This course has made me more resilient and confident about my academic choices and has prepared me well for almost any college class. The frequency of essay submissions might seem daunting but you have such great support along the way that if you put in the effort you will reap the benefits. The only disappoint thing about this course was the strict grading. However, they stricter they graded the more I was motivated to improve. But of course there were days when I wondered if I was improving at all. I did improve though, and I'm glad I took this course regardless of what grades I got/get.
This course is A LOT of work--perhaps more than other sections of the History tutorial. That would have been fine if I felt that my opinions were respected when I supported them with evidence, but I don't feel that my tutor respected my opinions. I often felt attacked for disagreeing or for taking a different angle than my TF would have. This detracted seriously from my experience with the course. With that said, I left the course much better-prepared to write well and to write a lot. My writing definitely improved.
True to the title, this course was highly "intellectual" and not for the faint of heart. However, I learned so much from this course especially how to be a better writer. Professor Kloppenberg is an amazing professor and a very nice man.
Professor Kloppenberg doesn't teach. The TFs sitting beside him do. The syllabus is strangely lopsided. Your writing will get better, but you'll feel frustrated about either the syllabus or the way participation is designed.
Its okay. There is a lot of writing and the reading is very disconnected from that writing, but it isn't that hard.
class is very difficult and a ton of work, but does improve your writing - make sure to take a history 97 in a topic that interests you or else it will be hellish
This class is a hundred times more effective than Expos and intellectual history is a very fascinating field. Its breadth really allows one to push oneself in whatever direction one is interested in. I strongly recommend this section!
The material in this course is very dry. Don't take it unless you already know you are genuinely interested in intellectual history. For me it was more philosophical and less historical. If History 97 is already a "necessary evil" as a concentration requirement, the most you can do to help yourself is to choose one on a topic you know you already enjoy. This is not a class for exploring new subjects because its focus is learning to write like a historian, and in my opinion it is easiest to write about a topic you find interesting. You will not be learning a great deal about intellectual history, but rather how to write about it.
This class is intense. The reading will be dry at times; do it anyway. The writing assignments are daunting in their frequency; you will survive them. You may not realize it as you are going through the course, but by the end of the semester, you will be a better writer and research, and you will know how to approach historical scholarship. The course does exactly what it sets out to do: it teaches you to engage with texts and material as a historian, not just as a student. The papers due at Sunday at 5 will ruin more than a few of your weekends; it's no fun, but it's only for a semester. Two hour classes are long, but the class discussions are compelling, and as a whole, the course material is fascinating.
As a history concentrator, you've got to take it. Even though intellectual history isn't my field, I felt that learning about this type of history has better equipped me to work with primary sources. The class is a consistent amount of work over the semester due to the 3 papers and the revisions, as well as the final paper. Just be ready to write a lot and know that the readings are only helpful for the first two papers, after which you're doing your own research. The TF made this class great--a big shoutout to Sarah!
History 97 isn't the most fun class, but all concentrators get through it, and I think the new seminar format worked well. I think it would make more sense without a primary source research paper at the endit's a lot combined with the other work.
It gives me serious reservations about my choice to be a History concentrator.
Choose a topic you are passionate about for your paper and you will enjoy the class.
I met with my TF almost every week and got a lot out of this classthe more help you ask for, the better the class will be
The history department is wonderful - this class is the only requirement and the only bummer in the whole concentration.
History 97 is a poorly structured program and in need of serious reform or of being scrapped altogether. Even so, History 97b is an even worse nightmare within the broader History 97 program. You will unfortunately be required to take History 97, but please avoid taking "What is Intellectual History?" with Professor Armitage. The readings are dull. All of us spent class staring at our laptops as Armitage droned on and on about some esoteric nonsense.If you are a prospective concentrator looking to see what your future courses would look like, please do not consider this course and the other 97s as representative of the History Department at Harvard. There are many fantastic courses within this department, and one stupid, painful seminar/tutorial course that is not unlike Expos 20 should not turn you away. It is the only required course, and you will be free afterwards to take whatever history classes you want.
HIST 97 is not hard, but it can be quite arduous. The three hour lessons can be difficult to get through and it is sometimes difficult to see quite why the material being covered in class is relevant to your papers (often it isn't). Nonetheless, it is worth trying to get an understanding of the theoretical and methodological discussions in class, as though they aren't substantively related to your papers, they can help you in your research and writing.
This class will not be your favorite class or the most interesting class you take. But you will learn a lot about the writing you need to do in the history department, and you will become a better writer. The readings are unimportant and very loosely connected to the course and each other. Focus on your project. That's the most important part of the course, both for your grade and your learning.
Only take this if you have to. It is a writing seminar, and you will not actually learn things about intellectual history.
Do not get excited. Not a good class, but is helpful in the long run.
This is a good class if you are looking for a bad class. If you are reading this, chances are you are already a history concentrator so it's too late; you need to take it. The readings were irrelevant to anything we were actually graded on. Section was the most frustrating thing I have ever experienced. It is 3 hours of everyone discussing readings that nobody did because nobody had the time to do them. Essays being due at 5pm on Sunday will certainly ruin every weekend of your semester, so say goodbye to fun. In addition, if you have readings assigned the same week you have an essay due (which is every week) your life will suck. The feedback given is extremely vague and you will have a tutorial in which your classmates give you feedback on a topic they do not understand. You have an essay a week and hundreds of pages of reading a week. It is an overall poorly structured class that I would recommend to absolutely nobody. Several times, I was made to feel stupid, but I realized that everyone else hated it as much as I did. It honestly made me question whether or not I wanted to study history. I entered 97 with a love for it and left with a disdain for it.
This course, and History 97 in general, is a catastrophe. History is a wonderful field, but Harvard's history concentration certainly needs an overhaul to reach even a modicum of competence. History 97 was a regular time to catch up on sleep, or improve your doodling. It is a shame, but it is true.
If you go into the class with a good attitude, you'll likely enjoy it
you'll actually become a much better writer
This may be the worst class I have ever taken. I don't know why the History department chooses to introduce its new concentrators in this way. I don't think its Professor Jewett's fault or either of the TF's. It's just a terribly structured course that will make you question your concentration selection.
The seminar could not have been less compelling. Just take a different History tutorial.
You have to take it, but don't except much going into it.
