Its a fair amount of reading which is usually pretty tough in terms of the dense contents of the readings. Terry Martin is a very enthusiastic professor but you need to listen carefully to his lectures and try and understand what the main points of the lectures are because he doesn't make it clear. Its an interesting class but very hard to keep up with (though there are two or three writing assignments).
It was a good class, but it was also kinda hard to stay engaged for the whole semester.
The reach of this class exceeded its grasp. While it was interesting to examine revolution in comparative context, the sheer number of revolutions we were asked to study was overwhelming. I didn't emerge from the course feeling like I had really mastered the subject matter.
An excellent course. Fun and informative.
It was very disorganized...
A pretty generic Harvard history course, which means it's good, but it's not in the upper echelon of courses I've taken. Probably wouldn't take it again.
This class was very poorly organized.
A really interesting take on the international aspect of revolution. It is really cool to see similarities and differences between seemingly opposed countries and to see how ideas spill over to other countries. Also, an up close on view on Communism (usually a pretty foreign concept to people) on the ground, being carried out by the Bolsheviks in local towns and to peoples abroad. Terry Martin's lectures are so awesome and dynamic, and I will definitely be taking more classes with him. Section discussions were great. The reading is a lot, but very valuable, interesting and important to the concept of the course. TAKE IT!
This class was very confusing and not easy at all. A lot of reading. I would definitely take another history course to fulfill a core/gen ed
A great class with a very interesting topic presented in a great way. You do have to attend lecture because there are no lecture slides or videos, but it is only two hours a week, and the lectures are generally pretty great. I may have enjoyed it more due to having never learned much world history, but I thought it was fantastic stuff. There is a very heavy reading load.
The class was disorganized at times (it was the first time it had been offered) and the broad course themes didn't become clear until the final lecture. But, if you keep up with the readings (of which there is a substantial amount) and attend lectures regularly, then the course isn't unmanageable.
Material was interesting, professor and TFs were dedicated, but badly needs to be cut down in its scope and organized better. It's a new course and that was pretty apparent.
Class is great if you're familiar with the Russian Revolution, because it delves deeply into other countries in the region more
Terry Martin is great, but I do not think this is his best class -- particularly since he often cedes the lectern to grad students. The topic is interesting, but the lectures were disorganized and often I felt overwhelmed by the amount of information on some very different countries that was thrown at us. However, you will learn a lot about revolution, socialism, and nationalism. And that is valuable.
This class has potential, but I wouldn't take it. Check back in a year or two to see if they've worked out the structural issues of the course (the lectures feel disjointed, the guest lecturers aren't that good, the readings are a waste). If you do take it be prepared for a lot of work at the end of the semester and 70% of your grade to be determined by a final and a final paper.
A very interesting course that allows you to put in as much time as you want. If you are at all interested in the subject, I certainly recommend it.
This course was very confusing. If you're not a history concentrator, I would avoid this class. The lectures jumped all over the place and never followed the outlines put on the front screen. This confusion made it difficult to write papers, study for the exams, and participate in section. While Professor Martin was a very interesting lecturer, the confusion and bad grade I received from this class was not worth it.
