This course was a great experience, you learn a lot but still enjoy an encouraging environment.
Go for it - good course
That they should've taken it under O'Donovan.
I was ultimately disappointed.  I hoped to learn a lot about a topic I was interested, and felt that I came away knowing a lot about something very obscure without having produced research which was truly worthwhile.
This course tested my artistic and literary limits. As a research seminar, I learned about book history research, which was new and exciting. Be aware that the expectations for the course are higher than expected.
For any humanities student, this is the best course you can take at Harvard. It is utterly unlike any course offered, perhaps anywhere in the world. You'll be asked to do imposing amounts of reading and writing, but the assignments are creative and the reading excellent. Professor Lepore and Price are two of the most outstanding professors at this fine institution and they bring immense energy and insight to the class. Challenge yourself - take this course.
The assignments require creativity and research.  The professors take turns reading and grading your assignments themselves, and their feedback is both fair and instructive.  Creative aspects are held to as rigorous standards as analytical ones.  The readings, while interesting, do not fully get tied in to overarching questions on the nature of books.  Field trips to the Bow & Arrow Press and the Cambridge Burying Ground do lend surprising insight to the conversation.  Not your typical history or literature course, which I loved.
This class was one of the more difficult I have taken at Harvard simply because it was graded so hard. On a day to day basis, the class was not hard. The grading by both professors was extremely critical. It was the first time I felt pretty isolated at Harvard and felt like I didn't belong. Not sure if my classmates were as displeased with their grades as I was but the writing assignments are incredibly broad and vague and they are not simple. The title of the course is laughable... but don't let it deter you. It is one of the more unique courses I've taken at Harvard but it was definitely not my favorite. Professor Lepore is literally too smart for the students. Professor Price seems like she lacks creativity. I'm not sure why they teach this together but honestly it's a cool class. The reason I took it was because it was the only history seminar that had previously been taught and it had relatively good Q scores. Writing skills - they need to be very good if you want to succeed in this class.
The course is fun in general. Personally I feel that it is more like an intro art studio course to learn how to physically make a book than an Eng/Hist joint seminar. There is definitely discussion about the nature of books etc but not as deep as some of my other courses. The two assignments and the final project can be very time-consuming, and it may be hard to adjust to because most weeks require no work at all. There is little guidance on the assignments or the project, so it is really more of applying your existing skills to a book-themed task than learning something new.
This is a really cool class to experience. We go on a lot of field trips and try cool things like making paper and ink, etc. However, the class can be very ambiguous as to expectations for assignments and the class itself is not super cohesive. It is also much more of an English class than a History class. Overall though, it's still a good experience to have if you want a class that does not fit into the traditional mold.
Excellent and engaging class which will challenge you to think differently about books & reading. Gives you new insight into cultural & historical significance of books and book making. Assignments can be vague but grading is fair. Class is always fun, and professors are invested and engaged.
You'll learn about every aspect of bookmaking and the culture surrounding books. Seminar time alternates between discussion of texts and field trips to the art museum, archives, depository, and a printing press. It's an extremely varied and interesting interdisciplinary course, but it sometimes feels a bit random. Not everything in the course seamlessly connects (projects have little to do with seminar activities, except for the last assignment, which is to make a book), but you have lots of room for creativity. I wanted more out of the history side of the course, as discussions tended to skew more towards literary discussions. If you like hands-on learning and thinking really outside the box, this is one to consider.
