Very good course if you have a strong interest in Soviet/Russian history, you put in a lot of work and get a lot out of it.
If history of the Soviet Union is your focus, you should take this class.  Otherwise, it's certainly interesting and useful, but the utility may not outweigh the heavy reading load.
Be prepared to work hard, but it worth every minute.
I would certainly tell them to take this course only if they believe they would be able to dedicate a minimum of 24 hours per week for it. Not only are the students expected to read around 800 or more pages every week and write weekly response papers, but they are also expected to take an half-hour oral exam (replicating a generals exam), and write in addition to this a twenty-thirty page review essay that means an additional 10 books plus a number of articles. So, those who are contemplating to take this course have to make sure that this is really a must for their area of concentration.
This is a very rigorous, difficult but interesting class.  It is brilliant preparation for future work in Soviet history, but be prepared to read a lot.
This course is indispensable for anyone studying Eastern Europe and Russia after 1900, but it requires careful balancing of your class schedule so as not to become overwhelming.
This course is essential for grad students concentrating on modern Russian/Soviet/Eastern European history, but probably not worth it for non-specialists. In addition to the massive reading load, discussions tend to be focused more on historiographical inside baseball than on the substance of issues/events. If you do take the class, keep in mind that while certain books on the reading list are important and need to be read in depth (ask previous students which), others can be skimmed with no harm done. I probably would have survived this semester with the same marks and my sanity much closer to intact if I'd realized this earlier.
This is one of the best graduate classes I have ever taken.  It is extremely demanding in terms of work load -  be prepared for 1000 pages a week. Hence, I recommend this class only to people who have a true interest in Soviet history. The learning outcome is enormous and in only one semester you get introduced to the major works in the field and get a really good sense of the historiography. The biggest surprise for me was that this course is far from being dry and boring, instead it might cause an addiction to Soviet history. Also, it serves as a great preparation for the generals thanks to the oral exam at the end.
No choice if you're a PhD. Beware the focus on preparing PhDs and focus on historiography itself if you are simply interested.
This class is exactly as advertised: a survey of the Western historiography on the Soviet Union and preperation for a general exam field in Soviet history.  I would be hesitant to recommend it to people just tangentially interested in Soviet history, but if you are taking it for what it is, it is an absolutely excellent course.
Professor Martin is a genius, and a memorable and unique person all around. This class provides a very deep foundation for studying Soviet history. That said, the amount of reading is tremendous (often 700-800 pages a week, sometimes more). This class simply cannot be taken casually. That warning aside, I recommend this class with the greatest enthusiasm.
