You must take this course; it is one of those courses that remind you what you came to Harvard for. It is the best course I have taken here, and I have learned more about history from this course than from any other history course or book, as Professor Press sets great readings and is extremely knowledgeable about the material. It takes a completely unique perspective on history, and this course made me decide that I wanted to concentrate in History.
Prof. Press is awesome. Discussions were always interesting and lively.
Press is a cool dude.  Take it!
prepared to read a lot and engage in class discussions.
This is a fantastic course with a great, relatable and brilliant professor. You learn about topics that will apply in many other history courses and scenarios. Discussions were interesting, and the readings were generally short and engaging. This is a great seminar.
This class is awesome. Very engaging and interesting, no busy work, great professor.
Prof. Press is amazing -- someone that Harvard is truly lucky to have. The readings were all fascinating, only a few "this is important but boring so read it" type essays. Discussion was engaging. Cannot recommend enough.
Professor Press is a terrific resource and great person who everyone in the History department should get to know and take advantage of.
If you are interested in learning more about the nation state and how the balance of power in today's world came to be, this is a good course.
He's a great dude!
Professor Press leads an interesting and thought provoking class that will challenge your conceptions of statehood, sovereignty, and other topics.
an excellent class on a very unique topic
I don't usually say these things in Q-Guide reviews, but Professor Press is the man. Not only an expert in his field, he's also the kind of professor you want to get to know outside of class. He's super understanding about any issues you might have and is very reasonable in his expectations. I'd highly recommend you take this course (or any course) from him.
A fun and relatively easy course dealing with interesting subject matter and great readings. Great for people who are interested in the intersection of history and politics. Press is a genuinely great guy (the very best kind of awkward) and a lot of fun to talk to; he feels more like a buddy than a professor. The course was quite unstructured, which was unfortunate; sometimes discussions meandered and it wasn't entirely clear what we were talking about or why were talking about it. But the enduring themes of the course are important and thought-provoking, and I'm sure future iterations of the class will take criticisms/compliments into account.
