Judge the class by the first lecture or two, guys. This is one of the rare occasions where you can do that and it'll be on-the-ball accurate. If you like the initial lectures, you'll love the class. If you don't, the course won't get any better.
This is a great course for anyone interested in the USSR.  Professor Martin is a great resource, and should be met with one on one to get the most out of it.
Take this class! Appreciate all the readings!However, unsure how the final paper/exam is graded
Terry Martin is an excellent lecturer whose course really stands out for its attention to detail, while managing to create a coherent narrative for the student with little experience in the area. I highly recommend it.
Dr. Terry Martin gives an outstanding lecture every class meeting. I have a list of amazing quotes he has said over the semester including "Goulash Communism".
This course is good and you will learn a lot about the Soviet Union and its internal development.  The one thing that almost kept me from taking it is that the course had a final exam and a final paper, which made the end of the semester a little more difficult.  The workload the rest of the semester, though, is very manageable.  The readings are predominantly novels and memoirs, which makes for a nice change of pace from densely academic history papers.
Far too much reading without too much payoff.
Soviet history is absolutely fascinating. Unfortunately, this course could be taught much better than it is. If you are really interested in soviet history, it's worth taking this class.
This course is a phenomenal overview of themes in Soviet history. Professor Martin gives great lectures and really brings the major events and themes in Soviet history to life. Additionally, this course provides excellent experience working with primary historical sources.
Very good introductory course for understanding the history and historiography of the Soviet Union. Professor Martin is vivaciously enthusiastic.
A very easy courseby the standards of the history departmentthat is a good introduction to Soviet history. The readings are not aligned with the lectures, which is frustrating, but both especially Prof Martin's lectures are good.
Martin is a great and fun lecturer. I think the class could do a better job of presenting multiple interpretations of Soviet history and giving a more rigorous coverage of ideology.
It's a great course-- you learn everything there is to know about the Soviet Union.  And Prof. Martin is a fantastic lecturer.  Just be prepared to cover a lot of material.
This class is very enjoyable and very informative. It's definitely worth taking.
Professor Martin is a brilliant guy and knows his stuff. I enjoyed lectures and am smarter for having taken this course. I think that if you are looking for a broad survey of the Soviet Union, or just learning about something that is historically significant, this course is a must take. THe work is minimal which can be problematic because you may fall behind. But, if you attend lectures and attempt to do the readings you will get a lot out of this class with little pain.
This is a very good course on a fascinating topic.  Professor Martin is perhaps the goofiest professor I've had at Harvard, and that is a good thing.  His style is very entertaining and he is a lot fun to listen to.  He knows a ton about Soviet history (he spent a lot of time there before its collapse) and has very interesting anecdotes about his time there.  There are a lot of readings, but dont' let that scare you off.  I would say try and read most of the textbook and parts of the assigned reading for the week.  If you do that much you'll be fine.
Great course to learn about Soviet history, not particularly stressful assignments, although completing the reading would be very useful for section and for the course.
Terry Martin is a really wonderful lecturer, and the subject matter of this course is very interesting. Definitely take this course if you want to learn more about the evolution of the Soviet Union and its eventual collapse. You'll learn a lot!
Take the class only if you're interested in the source material. Lectures can meander and be a little dry, and section isn't great. Also, there's too much reading.
Professor Martin is a great lecturer. This course was both enjoyable and edifying.
This class is definitely worth taking if you're interested in the subject matter, it's not terribly hard but it brings a lot of ideas in Soviet history that I already knew about to a new level by breathing life into them through the firsthand accounts assigned as readings.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time out of class learning the material, as the lectures are more analytical.
An excellent class! Professor Martin's lectures are vivid, entertaining, and deeply insightful. The readings are a great selection. Section was weaker, but it doesn't detract much from the course.
This is a fantastic course.  Take this course if you have any interest in the Soviet Union.  Professor Martin and Kathryn Dooley are incredible instructors.  A treat to have taken!
If you're interested in how Russia came to be what it is today, this class is incredible. The central "textbook" is fantastic and fun to read and the primary sources are great. Be prepared to commit A LOT of reading time to this course in order to complete a few important assignments. Professor Martin is an extremely entertaining lecturer, even if sometimes a bit scattered. This is an incredible course if you like Russian relations and history. This course changed the way I view world history.
This class is a very informative course about Soviet history that will truly make you become even more understanding of Soviet history.
Students interested in the period of Russian October revolution through the Stalin period would find this course most engaging (the post-Stalin period is covered in a much more comprehensive way in the End of Communism course). Prof. Martin is an outstanding lecturer, and his enthusiasm for the subject matter is contagious. I particularly appreciated his nuanced and humanizing approach to the study of the Soviet system particularly under Stalin. Expect a decent amount of reading, though readings are very worthwhile - diverse, insightful, thought-provoking and certainly memorable.
Professor Martin is a wonderful and engaging lecturer able to keep the room interested for an hour and a half using only an overhead projector. The readings are very interesting, but there are very very many of them. The course truly focuses on the history of the Soviet Union with little mention of other countries, even in the context of foreign policy!
This is a great class. Good overview of the Soviet Union, and with a professor who couldn't be more knowledgeable.
Absolutely best course I've ever taken. The reading is doable and the TFs walk you through everything you need to know about the reading anyway. Soviet History is actually super interesting and you will enjoy the readings you do.
The course is alright on a day-to-day basis, but during the four day period for the take home midterm and combined workload of the final paper and exam post thanksgiving added significant stress.
This course offers a complete overview of the Soviet Union. Since this is such an involved topic, the pace can be a bit too hectic at times.  The section readings are novels and memoirs, which are much more interesting than traditional historical materials.
If you have always been interested in the Soviet Union, its sudden and meteoric ascension, and its equally abrupt decline, this class is for you. There is relatively little focus on foreign policy, so if you're interested in the Cold War, this is probably not the best class to take. On the other hand, Professor Martin spends a great deal of time discussing Soviet leadership, and the unique modes of rule of Stalin, in particular.
Prof. Martin is an enthusiastic lecturer and the course materials are great, especially if you're a history major with an interest in primary sources. Having both a final paper and an exam is always tough, but other than that the workload was also manageable and the section and lectures enjoyable.
This course is challenging but you learn a great overview of the Soviet Union.
This class gives an excellent picture of Soviet history, society and culture. The lectures a fascinating and interesting, and Professor Martin is very engaging. There is a lot of reading but the grading is fair.
Stay caught up with the reading.
The lectures are really good, and the subject matter is really interesting.  section will hopefully improve.
Soviet history is so intense, it's hard not to be engaged.
This professor was decent, but the TF was terrible.  Make sure you meet the TF, ask questions about how he or she will run section, and then make your decision about enrollment.
If you are interested in the subject, Professor Martin's enthusiasm will ensure that you will enjoy this class.
The material is engaging, though lectures do not always match well with our readings.  Too much is assigned each week, and occasionally Prof. Martin's presentations are out of synch with our weekly reading assignments.
If you are interested in Soviet history and like to read primary sources, this is the course for you!
The subject matter is fascinating and Professor Martin is great, but it's frustrating that the few assignments are worth the bulk of your grade. You have to be really fascinated by the Soviet Union to keep up the motivation to keep up in the course.
This course is extremely informative, you cover a lot of ground, and it is also a lot of fun.
The material is interesting and Martin is a great professor. Be  prepared to read a multitude of  rather dry memoirs.
Dr. Martin is a phenomenal lecturer and the material presented is not only interesting, but entertaining. The course doesn't require much work (one midterm, one paper, one final) and it is easy to catch up if you get behind.
I did walk away from the course with a fairly solid understanding of some of the broad trends in Soviet history, but nothing much more than I could have gleaned from simply reading the main course textbook (Suny) or a time line.  Professor Martin's lectures are worth the time, but the readings were not.
Professor Martin gives excellent and engaging lectures.
Lectures aren't engaging and too much reading
It's a really good class - lectures are great, subject is interesting.
this is a low-effort, interesting look at an important part of recent history.
Stick it through sections (or don't attend if you're more adventurous than I) but this is a great class which not only imparts an introduction into the subject but a whole new set of perspectives on Soviet history.
The course is excellent.
the reading load is very heavy, but every book is great! Sections are fun and helpful.
If you're interested in the Soviet Union or seeing the Cold War from a new perspective, this is a great course that does not get you bogged down in details, but provides a very good overall understanding of the period.
If you're REALLY dedicated to learning about Soviet history, it's a good intro course, but it's really demanding of its students. You're "on your own" in terms of learning the historical material--lectures and sections focus on analysis rather than on recounting/reviewing the historical facts...
Be warned - this class has a lot of reading. But professor Martin has a lot of fascinating ideas about the Soviet Union that you won't quickly forget.
I would recommend this  course if you are interested in knowing more about Soviet Union's internal politics. Interesting but long readings.
