It's a lot of work but you learn an incredible amount in one semester's time. Do not take if merely an elective because you likely will not want to invest the work required. If however it is required or relevant for your concentration, I highly recommend taking it.
Although the course is certainly useful for training in Russian history, it is necessary to underline the fact that it is geared towards a particular approach to the study of imperial Russian history, as the syllabus covers themes such as empire, multi-ethnicity, borderlands, and institutional history, leaving out a number of others that are equally critical. There isn't much on cultural history, still less on gender history. There is also not much on the eastern borderlands. On the other hand, the assignments are excessively demanding and ends up being not so productive, precisely because students are unable to devote the required time for the two essays that are required by the course, not so much because of the requirements as such, but because of the deadlines that are set unnecessarily early.
If you're already a student of Russian history, you already know that you should be taking this class. If you aren't in at least a peripherally related field, you are likely to find it less useful.
The course is hard but very useful if you want/need comprehensive knowledge of imperial history.  The reading load is large but necessary, and the feedback and discussions are helpful.
Be prepared for the workload, anticipate the kind of reading material that will be assigned, take a Russian history course first!
If you're a Russian Historian, obviously you should take this class, but those from outside the field should take note that though this course will be accessible to you, the material is somewhat of a mixed bag. To the extent that it focuses on issues like Russian empire and colonial expansion, or ethnicity in the Russian empire, or Russia as multi-confessional state, the class could be quite interesting. But readings on the structure of Russian society or the nature of the Russian economy are generally dry and mired in details uninteresting (and not really memorable) to anyone who isn't a specialist.
This course provides good exposure to a broad range of literature on imperial Russia. Some of the readings are a little tedious (probably by nature of the field), but they're still worthwhile. Overall the course is a fair (but manageable) amount of work.
