Definitely take it! It is an excellent course.
I recommend this course to those interested in history of the book, but also to all students interested in issues related to interpretation of sources,first of all historians, irrespective of their field/area of specialization
The field of book history is relatively new but already rich and exciting and varied with a lot of room to explore and specialize. This course offers a very good entry and (but not to suggest basic) introduction.
A great opportunity to be introduced to book history by two of the field's best.
Book history is good for thinking. It forces people to use different skill sets together (intellectual history, material culture, literary criticism) in a way that is really productive.
A wonderful opportunity to work with really primary sources!
There was a huge wait line the first day of class. Any class that makes students compete for a registration spot on the first day really sends the wrong message. After the highly competitive selection process ended, unnecessary and ridiculous competition lingered on in every single class.
This class will introduce you to many important themes in the study of the history of the book.  The professors are great, and the discussion is lively.
Have fun!
Great introduction to book history that complements really well a 3010 in that field. Lots of the same readings but often with different discussion.
a must for anyone interested in book history - most of the basic literature will be touched upon
This course is a fantastic opportunity to discover new approaches to history and literature. The work represented in it is some of the most interesting out of anything being produced today.
I would tell any history student to enroll in this course.  It really helps one reflect on the circulation, diffusion and reception of one's sources -- things that historians often take for granted in assuming that texts are either accurate reflections of public opinion or were authoritative in determining it.
Great course, but research-oriented.  The readings are light; in turn, you have to be motivated enough to consistently keep up with your independent research.  If you want to know more about the synoptic narrative of the history of books, Professor Blair's lecture course is better-suited to your needs.
