A fantastic class if you're looking for an in depth study and understanding of the historiography surrounding the French Revolution. Anyone can read a summary of the events, but this class really digs deep into the questions the revolution raised, and continues to raise to this day. The readings are varied and all very interesting, and have all been carefully chosen: I could always see how a reading fitted into what had been discussed in class, and how it offered something new, which is great. The seminar was less of a discussion, more of a talk by Professor Higonnet, but his knowledge is phenomenal and it was a privilege to learn from him. I believe he is retiring after this semester, but if this isn't the case and you're interested in the French Revolution, you must take a class with him. Hannah is one of the most supportive TFs I've ever had, and wasn't afraid to diagree with Professor Higonnet (their arguments in class were wonderful to watch). If you're looking for a survey of 1789-1794, this isn't it. If you want to really challenge your thinking and attempt to truly understand one of the most important events in world history, then take this class.
This has probably been my favorite course at Harvard.  Professor Higonnet is fantastic.  He's funny, witty, and extremely smart, and he clearly loves sharing his knowledge of the French Revolution.  The reading can be somewhat substantial, but the focus of the course is on thinking critically about new ideas rather than "busy work" assignments.  Hannah is also a great TF and provides great support with the final paper.
This is one of the only courses offered in Harvard devoted to the study of the French Revolution, so for that reason alone I would recommend it. The actual course itself could be structured better: be aware that almost your entire grade will be dependent on the final paper. Ultimately however it was effective in making me feel like I learned some of what there is to know about the French Revolution.
Some of the readings are brutal, and you might want to brush up on your French Revolution before you take the class. The course goes straight to historiography ahead of the history.
This class is highly theoretical, and a lot of the material is very dry.  Professor Higonnet has many interesting ideas but is difficult to follow and rambles a lot.  I would only take this class if you already have a solid grasp on the history of the Revolution, in which case you might really enjoy it.  Also, this class isn't very geared towards writing a research paper, so if the process of writing the paper is important to you and you want guidance, I wouldn't recommend this class.
This type of class is sort of weird and yet is weirdly 'Harvard'. Phenomenal course. Prof. Higonnet is preternaturally gifted with students.
More or less what I expected from a research seminar, but with more emphasis on reading than on researching. Professor Higonnet is wonderful, as is Elizabeth Cross. Reading load on the heavier side, but the books are great.
This is a fairly standard research seminar, perhaps on the light side, with only weekly two-page response papers (besides the 20-pager at the end), and if you're interested in the French Revolution, you don't really have many other choices. The thematic bent is interesting, but means that there weren't very many crossovers between classes week to week. It felt just a bit disorganized, but nothing too bad.
This class was really good because we learned about all aspects of the French Revolution, not just one or two approaches or a select number of topics.  Prof. Higonnet is an excellent professor and a very nice man.  If you take this class, you should keep in mind that class discussions were not very interactive and had a tendency to veer away from the main topic and that very little guidance was provided in the writing of the final paper.  You will need to go after it yourself.
Higonnet is a wealth of knowledge and is very old school.  This class is a non-stressful way to learn about the French Revolution from one of Harvard's most brilliant professors.  However, the course is more of a reading than a research seminar
Definitely take this course if you want an interesting discussion course on the French Revolution, but make sure you like the subject matter!
This is a class predominantly about the historiography of the Revolution; it does not focus on the history of the Revolution itself to the same extent. With that said, it's a great introduction to the historiography.
The class was an interesting one and helped me see the greater complexities that the French Revolution presents.  If you are interested in really learning about historiography or the French Revolution, this is the perfect seminar for you.
I enjoyed this class a lot, but it has a highly theoretical approach to history, which may not be for everyone.
