DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU WANT TO LEARN EFFECTIVELY OR HAVE A SEMESTER FULL OF PAIN
Worst class I've taken at Harvard.  The course should be renamed "The History of Racism" because everything we discussed was taught through a discriminatory lens.  The class was clearly taught with an agenda to twist everything about the structure and personnel of prisons and law enforcement into racially charged motives.  Sections were not helpful, lectures were read from a script.  It was poorly organized and overall a really bad class.
do the reading and get engaged!
This class has the potential to be so interesting and the topic is so timely and relevant. However, was a total mess. We wasted so much time in lecture having "group discussions" that we hardly ever covered content. The readings for each week would totally change topics... it was very unclear to follow. Section was a TOTAL waste of time since we "did discussion" and group activities all the time in lecture... 

It was not the most fun class to sit through.. but if they change a lot of things about the strcuture it could become interesting.
very necessary course to take- prison is an embodiment and cause of many of America's most serious issues. It is a ponderous topic that deserves attention.
You think it's going to be good.  And this course really could be amazing.  But the structure of the lectures and section and the never quite clear focus of the course really make it unpleasant.  The reading list by itself would have taught you everything.
Hinton is great! Giver her tenure, please.
This class has a lot of potential but is hindered by the lack of focus in section and lack of a larger structure.  I would not recommend this class unless there was a clear revamp of the structure of lecture and especially section.
Be ready for many dense weekly readings. Professor Hinton seemed to have read off of a script in front of her for every single lecture.
Not hard but participation is a large component
-This is a new course with great potential.  The subject matter itself is absolutely fascinating, and Professor Hinton really knows her stuff when it comes to mass incarceration.  That being said, it needs a few years to get the right TFs and work out some problems with its exam and assignment structure.
Not much work. Section is not too helpful so does not really summarize readings. Powerpoints tell you what will be on exam but don't give detail. For instance a slide will say Transportation Act so that will be an ID but you have to go to class or look it up to get the answer.
The section component of this class was pretty average, and the course seemed to lack any sort of theme(s).  Also, grading on the midterm seemed to be especially harsh.
This class is great. Prof. Hinton really engages students in class and facilitates discussion even though it's a lecture format.
This is a class that will be interesting if you are interested in the subject. It doesn't count for Gen-Ed. You can take out of it what you want and find out a lot of interesting information about prison systems and penal regimes around the world that will help inform the structure of our prison system today. It can be tedious however and the course won't be pleasant if you don't want to learn about the subject matter.
Very unorganized class. Often times felt in the dark about what was going on in the course.
Prof Hinton is a gen. The course had a couple hiccups (section wasn't very useful, and the periodic in-class primary source assignments were a little tedious) but Prof Hinton is brilliant and kind and will certainly improve. The readings were engaging and especially timely given the events in Ferguson. Would highly recommend this course.
This class was disorganized and uninteresting. Lectures felt rushed and weren't very informative, but the readings were good. The class is worth it for the readings if you are interested in learning about the development prisons and the modern prison system.
Lectures were not cohesive and it was oftentimes confusing where material and events fit in thematically, particularly in the second half of the course. Professor Hinton relied on student activities, presentations, and discussion to fill time. While this could have been productive, students sometimes would not attend on these days, and the quality of the in class assignments were not rigorous or stimulating. Discussions were usually "feeling" based, did not pertain to course material, and a small selection of students dominated discussion. Exam preparation was especially weak, which the teaching staff essentially admitted to in making the final exam drastically easier than the midterm. This was in part due to the TF's, who seemed to not have a firm grasp on the material and relied on students to run the review sessions. At the midterm review session, the handout we were given had instructions such as "eat breakfast" and "make flashcards," but nothing pertaining to course material. The teaching staff felt inapproachable and oftentimes unfriendly, which was likely a response to poor attendance, but the teaching style kept with the theme of the course-- punitive.
Fingers crossed that future iterations of this course will be vastly improved. The course could be really amazing, it's just not. It has so much potential, but this year, it wasn't structured or organized well enough to reach that potential. The lectures were more like section, and sections were boring and unenthusiastic. Some of the readings are pretty good, but others seem almost entirely irrelevant.
I don't recommend this class. It's an interesting subject but not well taught which makes it very boring and not useful. Does not encourage broad thinking.
This course helps to provide a good overview of historical modes of punishment and penal regimes. A large thematic focus of the class is on Foucault's Discipline and Punish. Topics covered include penal colonies, convict leasing in the US, the rise of mass incarceration and the role of race in penal systems. Although this was the first time the class was offered and there were some difficulties with getting things started, the course has a lot of potential. Professor Hinton is also very enthusiastic and lectures include a lot of student participation.
I think that this was a "learning experience" for the course because it was its first year. I'm so glad that Professor Hinton offered it because the class provides a great background into the historical development of punishment and the prison system and its impact on modern mass incarceration. Her use of a variety of multimedia materials and primary sources made classes more dynamic. The size of the course was a downside; it would have been better as a seminar. Do go to office hours with Hinton and do the readings!
This is a good class with a manageable work load and minimal commitments.
Be weary of this class. There is far too much reading and the direction of the class is sometimes unclear. It ended up being more of a class about race and inequality than about the prison system and prison theory.  Also, the section component of this class is lacking. In order to learn, you have to go to lecture.
The material is really interesting, and the readings are good. However, I have two main complaints about the class. One: prof. Hinton broke us up into groups and had us present, in lecture, way too many times. This was really annoying because I felt as if I wasn't learning anything from lectures; I think I would've learned more had she assigned us the readings she made us present in class. And second: she read off of her notes during lecture. It was very hard to keep up with what she was saying, and take notes. This class can be a great class next year, if she changes these two things. The material is extremely interesting and I learned a lot from it; I think this class definitely changed my view about the penal system, and what needs to be done in order to change it for the better. I do not believe I would've held these views, had I not taken this class.
Do not take unless you are history concentrator or if they improve drastically the structure of the course.  Also make sure that she doesn't let students ramble on about aimlessness during class like she enabled a few to do this year
This course had a lot of potential. Interesting subject that's not talked about enough. The Professor is nice but the TFs made it a bad experience. The TFs were very disorganized and seemed to never know what was going on. Take this course with caution. Midterm grade threw everyone off with the grading on essay being arbitrary. Weekly discussion posts you do not receive full credit even if you've done all the readings if the TF doesn't like you. Currently only know 20% of my grade right now after all the coursework is over so it's a little worrying.......
There is a lot of reading, but it is all worth reading in entirety and not skimming. Go to lecture and section. Professor Hinton is very knowledgable and helpful.
This course has lots of potential, definitely shop it. It will most likely have been drastically improved since this '14 Q score and Professor Hinton is a professor you very much should meet and engage with at Harvard
This class surrounds a very interesting topic that is especially important today. It also is relatively easy given that you don't have very many assignments, just a weekly post, a midterm, one 6 page paper and a final exam. However, I felt that I could have done without some of the readings which you didn't really need to read, and section is basically all discussion rather than going over content, which could be good or bad depending on how talkative the people in your section are. But overall, I felt that I learned a lot and that the material is useful, if not for anything else but being a better more informed citizen.
