If you are looking for a detailed exploration of social scientific thought, this course is not for you. If you want to understand the broad brush strokes of the history of social science, then the class is for you.
That if you are expecting to close-read and to get at the tempting philosophical details of each text, you will be disappointed.  However, if you take this survey course for what it is, you will gain much from it.  Great course!
This is a great course if you're interested in breadth and focusing on the big picture. If you're more interested in focusing a few, core thinkers (as is typical of most courses) this is not the class for you.
Fantastically useful and interesting, but heavy workload and tough grading.
Be prepared for a lot of reading each week.
Great class, helpful and kind instructor, great way to learn about the social sciences and how they are relevant today.
This class is fantastic and you should take it!  The lectures are what make Harvard amazing -- a smart professor who has worked hard to research and synthesize the material, presenting it to you in a clear, structured way.  It is really an indispensable class and very enjoyable one too!
As an intellectual history course, I think some people may have difficulty if they have never been exposed to it before as there are a lot of names and ideas  that aren't fully covered in the course but yet a big part of it. That being said, it was a compelling course and I learned a lot about connecting ideas, politics and science.
Take this class if you haven't taken other classes in social studies/history/political theory and are eager to learn, or if you're a freshman curious about what you'd study in Social Studies. Don't take the class if you're already concentrating in Social Studies or a similar major, or if you've taken other survey courses in those departments.
One of Harvard's hidden gems, this course will teach you everything you need to know about how humans reason about knowledge - from Descartes and Bacon to Pinker and E.O. Wilson, with lots of great people like Smith, Nietzsche, Durkheim, Bordieu, and others in between.  This class will help you be knowledgeable at a cocktail party.
This is a good class.  The reading is interesting, and exposes you to a wide range of social scientific thought.  It still feels like a new class, but with each iteration I'm sure it will feel that way less and less.
The reading load is very manageable, and Prof. Jewett highlights the passages you're responsible for. Lectures pack in a lot of information and provide the historical context for the readings, so they are worth going to and won't waste your time. The light workload makes this a great elective, and though the course isn't too difficult, the readings and lectures are heavy enough that you'll walk away from the course having felt like you've learned something.
This is a great course for what it is. In a low pressure and low time-commitment setting, it gives you a serious introduction to many of the greatest philosophers, theorists, and social scientists of the past three hundred years. Prof. Jewett focuses on the main ideas and even literally highlights the most important passages of the readings every week, so you can focus on the big picture with each thinker.
