If you are planning to concentrate on the modern Japanese era this course is a must.  It will get you to read all the major readings and challenge you to consider the time period from a number of vantage points.
I would only recommend this class to advanced students, and only to students who will continue to work in modern Japanese history / are preparing a field. I enjoyed the class as an add-on to my academic profile.
Necessary first step to understand modern historography of Japan.
One should do the readings to get what she wants from this class.
If you are interested in Japanese history of the Meiji era until WWII, you will definitely enjoy this course. Highly recommended.
Professor Gordon is a deeply gracious and talented professor who ensures that advanced and beginning students can have intelligent, compelling conversations that advance their respective work forward.
Not only does this course provide the student with knowledge of the historiography of the period, but the class discussions are a fantastic way to share ideas with fellow students.
Make room in your week for A LOT of reading, but it will be worth it, since everything will be discussed in class.
This class gives you a fantastic overview of the historiography of the field as well as introducing some newer works. The professor is excellent and the course load is manageable but rigorous.
Only choose this course if you really have the time to devote to the readings - but if you do have the time, you won't regret taking the course!
A great introduction to the modern Japan history field and how to read the authors in that field intelligently
Be prepared to read a lot
Ideal (and necessary) for all students preparing a primary field in modern Japanese history; the reading load is large, and for those without a good background the debates and arguments may seem difficult to engage with. Nevertheless, most of the readings also provide a lot of historical detail, so non-specialists should be able to follow along.
There is a lot of reading for this course.  Plan ahead and read strategically to get the most out of the readings.
Very good way to have an overview of Japanese historiography Lots of work
This is your chance to survey English literature on Japanese history with one of the greatest (and nicest) professors of Japanese studies. You will be exposed to all of the major works, as well as recent developments in the field, trained to think like a historian, and receive vital feedback about the academic profession. Also, a great class to develop your focus of interest in history.
I learned a lot in this class. However, there is a lot of reading required, so if you are looking for more of a "basic" Japanese history class, this is not the class for you.
Be prepared for a lot of reading, but more importantly bone up on theory. The books in this course get a little heady, and you won't just be talking about events in modern Japan. There will be a lot of theoretical lenses used to read those events in the books you read.
If you want to study modern Japan - you absolutely must take this course.
Whatever your interests may be, you are likely to find something in this course that you want to explore further, as often as not in an area that you were not that familiar with before. Also, Professor Gordon is very thoughtful, both as a scholar and as a teacher. Excellent course!
Support your coursemates - share readings when there's only one library copy of an expensive book available, work with them on questions, etc., you will not regret it.
Excellent course; friendly yet challenging discussion.
