Take this course if you're interested in exploring the historical, political, and cultural significance of megaprojects in China - a topic that is highly relevant today. It does a great job of showing how many of these projects have cultural and historical origins, without taking a simplistic or essentializing viewpoint. The readings may sometimes get dense (particularly the detailed descriptions of dam technology or railroad-building), but they capture a diversity of time periods and perspectives that makes the course colorful and multifaceted. The highlight of this course for me was the class discussions, because Professor Ghosh does such a wonderful job facilitating conversations and synthesizing the readings in a way that is concise and insightful.
Professor Ghosh is a great professor, and this course was really interesting. You should definitely take this course if you want to learn more about China. Recommend with enthusiasm!!
In its first iteration, this course was not great.  Professor Ghosh is certainly trying hard though and asked for a lot of feedback from us to improve, so it might get better.  He also seems to be a pretty nice guy and seems to care about his students, all good signs and rarer than you would expect at the College.  Anyway, overall, the topic is really interesting and a good choice from Ghosh. These types of projects seem to define China right now and are rarely studied like this. The movies worked well, some of the readings were good. However, most readings were very boring and dry.  There was also a lot to read each week, which meant that a lot got skipped/skimmed lightly every week.  Ghosh didn't seem to realize this and would basically quiz us verbally in class each week on the arcane terms/frameworks made up by that week's authors.  This made discussions really boring, wasted time, and was just frustrating. Until this course shows improvements, I would probably take something else.
This class is laid back and Prof Ghosh is awesome! The readings are a lot and can be difficult, but if you are ok with that or fine with not completing most of the readings, then this class is not very much work at all. Great discussions and really interesting topics if you are interested in Chinese history at all. I would recommend having a background in history, and some knowledge of Chinese history in order to get the most of the class. It can definitely be taken without this background but it helps a lot! Great seminar, would recommend.
Fantastic course with awesome young Professor, whose personally knowledge, energy, and care is unique.  Variety of topics covered, from dams to Special Administrated Regions, allows for a breadth of understanding on modern China that other classes just don't do.  Not just one of the best China related courses I have taken as an undergraduate, but one of the best courses overall.
