One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard! Professor Logevall is such an interesting and captivating speaker, both in lecture and in office hours. No reason to be intimidated by HKS students.
Read the New York Times before class, chances are the discussion will revolve around it. Do the readings and participate. This is an amazing class, especially for an undergrad since you will hear the diverse opinions of classmates that have literally been involved in the creation of foreign policy and military realities.
Great class, not too difficult, and a great chance to take classes with people all kinds of different foreign policy backgrounds.
It's a fantastic history class. Logevall is a wonderful professor, thoughtful and extremely knowledgeable, encouraging of discussion (he'll actually listen to and consider your views), and an amazing source of historical facts and readings (the readings are stellar). Couldn't recommend more highly.
This was by far one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Professor Logevall is a legend. He leads lectures as if he is narrating an epic history documentary and as if every detail is sacred. The class involves a lot of student discussion and the assignments are fairly fun and engaging. The course is structured to give you a overview of each presidential era starting with President Wilson onwards. The course also seeks to dive deeper into one or two particular issues of each era. You will likely learn a lot from your HKS peers as they have an abundance of knowledge and stories to share from their past jobs and military service. Overall, the course and its assignments were phenomenal and I highly recommend this class to both the history/foreign policy fanatics and those just looking to take one of the finest courses Harvard has to offer.
The class is one big foreign policy discussion, not necessarily a lecture that explains foreign policy strategies. This form has some perks though! Better discussion.
Professor Logevall is an excellent teacher; the material is interesting and engaging; and there are a rare few political and diplomatic history courses at the college. This class is amazing, and there should be so, so many more diplomatic history classes--unless the history department wishes to go the way of Folklore and Mythology.
Take this class! Profesor Logevall is an approachable, engaged professor, who clearly knows the history of American foreign policy well. This course is perfect for foreign policy enthusiasts.A note: I did find the level of work required by HKS a bit underwhelming. This course was not as demanding as some of the History classes I have taken at the College. I do think Logevall will likely change that in the future and will up the bar.
The professor cares deeply about the academic growth of each student, and he demonstrates this passion through his thoughtful approach to learning. Instead of needlessly slamming us with hundreds of pages of reading (as other Gov and History classes do), he chooses select articles, chapters, and other writings that are pertinent to the next class, preferring instead for us to learn from him and from each other through robust and invigorating class discussion. The class makeup of undergraduates, HKS masters and PhD students, and industry professionals makes this course one of the most exciting (and learning-filled) classes I have taken at Harvard.
Really great class to get up to speed on the history of US foreign policy. More of an overarching narrative class than one in which you will dive into the details -- could be good or bad depending on your goals in taking the class. Always great discussion on contemporary issues as well. Very interesting as a college student to take with Kennedy kids.
Take it.  Just take it.
Lovegall is the man. Take this
This is an excellent class. As someone with little prior knowledge of US Foreign Policy, this class provided me with a lot of new and valuable insights. Though it's also cross-listed as an HKS course, don't let this intimate you - it's still a very worthwhile experience for an undergraduate, and the absence of the awful section component that characterises many undergrad classes is a huge plus. The interaction between history and the present is a central theme in the course, and classes often started with discussions of current events, which was very useful. The readings were rarely boring, and Professor Logevall seemed to make an effort to know every student. I have come out of this class convinced of the importance of knowing history for those who wish to understand our world today or formulate policy in the future.
This is a great class for learning about decision making in foreign policy, and the history of American foreign policy since the beginning of the 20th century. Excellent discussions.
This course is a fantastic combination of excellent readings and class discussion. The diversity of experiences in the class--from HKS, HLS, HBS, the College, the military, and elsewhere--contributed to making this one of the best classes I took at Harvard. The assignments are graded fairly, but the real work happens in the classroom. That's where the discussion and the bulk of the learning really happens.
Great course! Professor Logevall is an excellent lecturer, and the material is compelling and worth reading. I would prepare for the final paper in advance by meeting with Professor Logevall and checking with him on the idea. Similarly, make sure to prepare for the presentation in advance as well.
Very enjoyable course, dives into the central questions of US Foreign policy over time, and has great readings and discussions.
The class quality is largely based on the personality of the professor, so if you like him, remain in the course.
This course is very much a hybrid between history and government. It's American foreign policy from the 1900s to the present, but it's taught by Logevall who is a historian by trade. There was a perfectly manageable amount of readings. The 2 group projects were great - a simulation in which we advised the president on the Vietnam War and the group presentation on a topic of our choosing. Fun to work with grad students because they are smart and have had previous experience somehow in public policy. I really liked Prof. Logevall's emphasis on the understanding WHAT guided each U.S. president's decision making in each foreign policy endeavor. Weekly reading responses were straightforward. Really great class overall.
