hard course but worth it. great class and great teachers. will show you the next level
This class started off being hugely intimidating, with two of Harvard's most distinguished professors and a host of some of the smartest students in the humanities and social sciences. It was a significant time commitment, and dwarfed all my other classes this semester in terms of both how interested in it I was as well as workload. It's totally brilliant though, and although Professor Ferguson is one of a kind, I cannot recommend any future iteration of this class with Professor Maier highly enough.
I'm not sure if this course will be taught again, but you should absolutely take it. It's a great way to challenge yourself intellectually. Ensure that you do the readings and come prepared to class with a few points to discuss.
International History was the culmination of all that was good in the Harvard history department. Unfortunately, the political correctness police have scared away the best professor left in the Harvard History Department, and now you'll be left taking the cultural history of ancient mesopotanian clay makers instead of learning how to conduct diplomacy and apply your history degree to the real world.
This class, weaknesses aside, was a true pleasure. To learn from Ferguson and Maier is an incredible experience, and the students in the class were top-notch (even if they were slightly conceited at times). For any student interested in international history or international relations, this class is a must-take, if only to disagree with the readings!
This is a very difficult, but very rewarding class. The teaching staff is top notch, and the discussions were really engaging and interesting. The broader questions the class focused on, of world order and how it is constructed, are tremendously relevant and valuable for both historians and aspiring policymakers, financiers, or anyone who wants to be well read and incisive in their understanding of the modern world.
The best class at Harvard.
Ferguson will be sorely missed. He made this class extremely interesting, and it will be hard to replace him. Any future version of this class will be too different without him to be automatically recommended.
Although this class will not be the same without the dynamic duo of Maier and Ferguson, it was a rigorous exercise in reading large volumes of material about balance of power and hegemony theories regarding war and peace in the European order; extremely large time commitment and high standards, so take this class if you are here to learn and not looking for an easy course to coast through
One of Harvard's best courses, a shame the dynamic teaching duo of Ferguson and Maier has come to an end.
This class was absolutely phenomenal, it is an excellent chance to learn from two excellent professors, and to cover a lot of content in one semester. It is difficult, but excellent for those interested in international history.
This has been my favorite class in my academic career at Harvard
do the reading.
This is one of the best classes I've taken as an undergraduate or graduate student.  The professors work very well as a team, but differ enough in their outlook and views to make it especially value-added for both, instead of just one, of them to teach the class.  The way they select participants also ensures that discussions are lively and well-informed.
They must really be willing to do the reading and be interested in the material.  It is a lot of work to do if you aren't interested in it.
Best class I have taken at Harvard.
The harder you're prepared to work, the more you should be prepared to benefit from this class.
There is a lot of reading so only if you are prepared for that. You will come away with a large amount of knowledge about international relations, empires and many questions which are not just relevant for history students but also those from other disciplines.
This class is an excellent way to familiarize oneself with current debates in international history.  It provides an overview of modern international affairs that is useful for anyone studying this era.
This is excellent - Maier is great. Make sure you do the reading.
Possibly the best course I have taken at Harvard. The reading load is immense, but the readings themselves are always worthwhile. The range of Prof Maier's learning is dizzying and he is an outstanding teacher. Unlike in many seminars, discussion was actually collaborative and engaging, rather than students talking at each other. Above all, the scope and variety of this course sets it apart from anything else offered in the social sciences.
This course is amazing.  The class is taught very well and gives you access to great minds - both the professor and the graduate students.  There is quite a bit of discussion and the course requires a high level of critical analysis.  Nevertheless it is one of the most interesting courses I have taken at Harvard and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
The readings are a fundamental (and usually enjoyable) part to the course and one should be sure to have enough time for them as there is always a lot to read.
Be prepared for some boring reading and class discussion but with a very knowledgeable professor.
Charles Maier is in many respects the archetype of what a university professor should be. I mean that in the best possible fashion. He is almost unbelievably knowledgeable, in the way that only someone with a vacuum for a mind and incredibly broad interests can achieve after a lifetime of research. He brings this breadth (and depth) of knowledge to his teaching, along with an attitude that can only be described as genteel. Having him as a professor makes what might be an otherwise onerous reading load more palatable. This is one of those courses where you get out what you put in. If you have the time and energy to do all of the readings in detail, you will gain an enormous amount from it. Professor Ferguson was on leave, so I cannot comment on his teaching, but I imagine the course is at least as engaging when it is co-taught.
