Take this class -- you will learn a lot and its very accessible to people that aren't history concentrators!
It is a great course, Professor Rothschild is amazing, and the trip to the UN sells itself. Nonetheless, I would tell them that the readings are dull, and lecture can get a bit mundane sometimes.
This class was very enjoyable to take. Professor Rothschild is an excellent lecturer, and is extremely friendly towards and supportive of students. Make sure you begin research for the two papers early.
It's a great class because the way we perceive the world, through the lens of the United Nations, is surreal. I don't think I could have learned about history the way I did if I hadn't taken this class. Take this class and your appreciation for history and international cooperation will increase.
This class has a different structure from other history classes at harvard so it initially may take a little time to get used to. It offers a very unique and hands-on way to interact with the course material. The professor is very knowledgable in the field and makes you very motivated to research and learn more about the topic. Definitely would recommend!
This is one of the most immersive classes I've taken at Harvard. You learn about the UN through a rich variety of primary sources -- from intriguing guest lecturers to our trip to New York -- and have the privilege of working with a dedicated, enthusiastic teaching team.
Low work, high reward. This course is taught by a living legend and is a really wonderful way to learn about the UN from someone who has true inside knowledge.
While it was easy and often didn't seem organized, the class definitely gave me a better appreciation for the United Nations. The trip to the UN made the class.
Emma is great and the course is light on readings. This is the course to take y'all.
Good course.  Interesting material.  Not a lot of work.  Sometimes feels disconnected though.
The class can be a little dry at times, but it's still worth taking for the free trip the UN and other perks.
Boring but easy
It's an incredibly engaging course and very interesting.
Professor Rothschild is deeply passionate about the history of the United Nations and is an incredibly warm and approachable person. Looking at the UN as a historical institution rather than one of current events and public policy is a refreshing exercise, and Professor Rothschild has created a great course filled with interesting lessons, incredible guests (Kofi Annan!), and an amazing field trip to the UN.
