It's a very good course; pretty much exactly what it says on the syllabus. Take the opportunity to take a course with Professor Ulrich; she is absolutely brilliant and your life will be better for it. Super-manageable reading load.
Professor Ulrich is an incredible educator - take any one of her classes. You will not regret it. This one is particularly fascinating and you learn so many interesting things about American history that you wouldn't in any other class.
I would only encourage someone to take this class who is familiar with the "traditional" narrative of U.S. history and wants that to be challenged. I also don't think I would recommend it to graduate students as without the large discussion section I sometimes felt like I was missing out on portions of the class.
I recommend taking this course. It's a fun break from your other classes: it is small, you get to talk in class and Rhae Lynn (the TF) really cares about you and works to ensure that you get what you need to succeed. It can be a bit random what you learn (a lot about Mormons), but its fun.
Take this class! It was by far the most meaningful class I have taken at Harvard. The readings and lectures combine to bring the history to life. The readings aren't dense but are quite entertaining and thought provoking. Studying American history through the ever changing notion of the American family makes you think about familiar material in a new way. The final project was also tremendously rewarding, both on an individual level, and also as a class. Professor Ulrich really cares about each of her students and is passionate about the material. Anyone who is interested in history, memory, or family, do not pass on the opportunity to take this class!
Lots of reading and writing but it's worth it because you learn how families have been constructed over time.  The family project is great!  It was a bit frustrating to work out over the semester but that's the joy of research!
It's a good course that valued learning over a heavy workload, but it sometimes seemed overly geared toward gender history, so be forewarned.
An interest in the subject is perhaps tantamount.
This is a wonderful class. Professor Ulrich is a bright, engaging, incredibly intelligent Professor and it's been an honor and a privilege being in her class this semester. Do all the reading (it's more than manageable if you start the books early) and come to class prepared to be engaged and learn a lot. You will invariably get more out of the class if you participate in discussion. Also, take advantage of Professor Ulrich's office hours; she's an incredibly interesting woman.
If you want a personalized course that helps you ask questions about your own family, go no further! What a fun, small class with great teaching staff.
the main course book is a bit dense, but the readings in general are not too heavy from week to week. lectures are super interesting. I particularly appreciated the extensive preparation taken for the final projects (we choose topics in the beginning of the semester and regularly update in section). This allowed for great practice in the undertaking of any significant research project.
This fascinating course allowed me to read wonderful books, to question the ideal of the "American" family, and to explore one of my family's own stories, simultaneously colored by history and memory.
This is a wonderful course!
This class is really interesting, and the work for it is enjoyable. Highly recommend!
This course is very interesting. It is harder than it is marketed. There is alot of reading and essay writing and the final paper is hard because its unusual. it is an interesting class though.
Professor Ulrich is a great professor. This class takes an interesting historical look at the development of the family.
If you have a chance to take a class with Professor Ulrich, why on earth would you miss it?  She is an amazing teacher, the content is fascinating (really changes the way you see all of American history in a fundamental way) and the courseload is absolutely manageable.
Professor Ulrich is a raritya much lauded, published, accomplished professor (a UNIVERSITY professor) who really cares about the undergraduate experience. She is plugged-in and engaged, and wonderfully warm. If you know a decent amount about American history, this won't feel like anything new, but will recast your knowledge in a new light.
Prof. Ulrich is extremely knowledgable on the topic and really cares--this course is worth taking just to hear her debunk historical fables like Betsy Ross. You will learn about major developments in family history. Unfortunately not many viewpoints are presented and Nancy Cott's book is extremely informative but political.
This class is great if you are looking for an American history class, the perspective on individual family stories makes it engaging and interesting. The lectures were very organized, easy to follow and interesting, Prof. Ulrich is the real deal.
Take this class if you are at all interested in family issues and/or history. The material is absolutely fascinating, and the lectures are engaging (Professor Ulrich is great!). Also, for the final project you get to research one of your own family's stories and contextualize it historically. It is incredibly fun and exciting!
I didn't feel like it totally challenged me. Ulrich did her best to get us involved in class, but I always felt like she was searching for a certain answer, rather than encouraging us to really think creatively? It's hard to articulate, but I never felt like I left with new curiosity for the subject matter.
This class is well taught and engaging, and the material that it covers is interesting and informative. That said, it does not always do a satisfying job of exploring marginalized groups in US history. For instance, it may mention the significance of Chinese American experience, or the African American experience, etc., but it never goes into great depth about them. It does not do a lot to change the dominant narrative of the American Family. Which is okay, just a bit disappointing.
This is a fantastic, fantastic class. Professor Ulrich doesn't talk about history--she actually teaches her students how to do history. Class lectures are conversations between Professor Ulrich and students, and she devotes time to teaching students how to conduct research, instead of just assigning a research project with minimal guidance. I wish I had had this kind of class as a freshman--we were able to delve into material, but Professor Ulrich still saw the importance of teaching skills and not just content.
This class is interesting, but deceivingly difficult. The structure makes it so that you have to put in a lot of time outside of class connecting themes. In addition, the readings are significant but don't seem to matter except for the papers.
Professor Ulrich is a great lecturer.  This was a very interesting and well-structured class, particularly if you are interested in American history and American women's history.  Highly recommended.
Prof. Ulrich's lectures are entertaining, although the organization of the course can be a bit hazy at times. The primary and secondary sources are really great...if you're wondering what "American Families" is, it's basically everything. Every trend, event, and subset of American history can be related to the family, which is at once amazing and also slightly daunting. A very good course!
Professor Ulrich is someone that every Harvard student should take a class with before they graduate. Her insight into American colonial history, especially the role of the family, is amazing and her enthusiasm for the material is infectious!
Very interesting lectures and you have an opportunity at the end of the year to delve into your own family's historical past and learn things about your past that you never knew!
This has been a tricky class to evaluate. Let me say first and foremost that I thoroughly enjoyed the course. You get to do a family history project, which was one of the most rewarding parts of the course (though I recommend working on it throughout the semester, in order to get the most out of it!). The books we read were definitely interesting, if not sometimes a bit slow to read. And Prof. Ulrich is brilliant, and it was great to work with her.That said, I think that maybe Prof. Ulrich's teaching style was a bit tougher for me to grasp personally. It was hard, throughout the semester, to connect the themes of the course. When reviewing for the final, I did feel like I was starting to put things together nicely - I'm just unsure why this took me so long. Maybe it was just me, or maybe the class could be adjusted somehow. Perhaps it may ctually work better as a 12 or 15 person seminar? I think that could be very interesting.If this course sounds interesting to you, take it! I'm just a bit unsure how much I actually learned, and how much of the course will be with me a month from now.
This was a fun a easy class that just about anyone could take and enjoy.
It's a good class with a great professor. She makes lecture interesting and accomodates the class very well. As with any other course you get out of it what you put into it. There is a lot of stringing themes together on your own.
Know how to read dense books, be willing to sacrifice time to get the readings done, and dedicate at least 2 weeks for writing the essays and getting them proofread by everybody on your floor. You need to know how to "guess what the instructor is thinking" for most of this class. If you are good at that, then you will skillfully conquer the major obstacles in the course.During most of the semester, I didn't know what I was thinking when I signed up for the class. The family history part was fun because it was personal. But other than that, I felt that this course was a waste of a precious slot in my harvard schedule since it was just a random history class and didn't fulfill any GenEd req's or any other req's at all! It was the most stressful and demanding of any of my classes, and it was supposed to be my one ELECTIVE.Mostly, my frustrations came from not being able to pick apart the dense lectures packed with important details.
This class is an excellent opportunity to explore history on a personal level. The themes discussed in class about family directly relate to students' lives. You can see how events of the past directly impact the future, on a personal, familial level, as well as on a global level. Professor Ulrich is an excellent lecturer who is genuinely concerned with her students' understanding of the topic. It is great to be able to ask her questions and discuss topics with her in class, rather than having to go to office hours.
This class is much better suited to undergraduates than graduate students.
The family history project was incredible. It was one of the rare times at Harvard that I thought the project was tailored to me and my interests.
