Take this class. Ferguson will not disappoint--he's funny, engaging, and challenging. Decent amount of writing but the grading is fair and you'll learn a lot.
A great course with amazing lectures. I think it's truly necessary for anyone seeking to have a full understanding of early modern western history.
You should really do the readings. You will get much more out of the course. At the very least, you will be able to evaluate other opinions with what you learned in class, which will help you internalize the material.
take it, if your interested econ/finance. dont worry, no math or equations just econ concepts.
An incredible experience, and the exact reason you come to Harvard.  Whether you study economics or history (but by no means was the class limited to those concentrators), the course will realign your perspective and crystallize a closer connection between politics, diplomacy, and finance.  Understanding how the bond or stock market operates first requires that you realize where they came from and why they evolved as they have; not taking this course would be a disservice to anyone keen on making those connection, and a calamity for anyone who currently understates their importance.
Ferguson is so full of himself that it actually detracts from the course. Ec concentrators had an advantage, even though we were told prior knowledge wouldn't matter. However, most of the lectures and ideas were great, and the readings were wonderful
This is a very good class with fantastic lectures. Professor Ferguson is always engaging. I did feel, however, that he may have rested on his laurels and you could have gotten a lot of the same information from the book (Ascent of Money) that he wrote after teaching this class the last time. Still worth taking, however.
Do the readings! It is really worth it.
Ferguson is an amazing lecturer and presents financial events through a historical lens. There is a lot of reading involved but section discussions are terrific and make it worthwhile.
If you are interested in economic history this is an amazing course with very interesting readings.
You'll definitely learn a lot about the history of finance in this course. If you're not familiar with financial terms, however, there is a bit of a learning curve.
Financial history may seem daunting, but Professor Ferguson explains it very well. It's definitely worth taking this class to hear his lectures.
Solid course on a fascinating topic
Take the class, a great overview of financial history, knowledgable and smart!
Great course for those that want a good understanding of modern finance and a nuanced perspective given its origins. I strongly recommend this course to anyone though a basic understanding of economics is helpful. The work is not overbearing but I remember more from this course than I do from most. The lectures and some of the readings are very entertaining. I'm not an Economics concentrator but I truly enjoyed the historical angle to economics. Strongly recommend.
It would have been nice to have taken EC-10 first, but it is not essential.  Investopedia is very helpful for some of the more complicated terms.  Ferguson is a great lecturer and, as a celebrity, he attracts a very interesting group of people to his class.  The diversity in section makes discussions interesting.  Also, as a conservative at Harvard, Ferguson provides a different viewpoint.  However, it is useful to keep in mind that Ferguson is very conservative when thinking critically about the topics he presents.
This class was great. Professor Ferguson is a phenomenal lecturer.
This is an interesting, useful, relatively painless class with a really cool professor.
A good overview of financial history. Ferguson is a good lecturer.
Professor Ferguson is a talented and witty lecturer and the readings are well-chosen.  Nonetheless, Professor Ferguson seemed more interested in being a peripatetic public intellectual than being a teacher.  One could imagine that someday soon all his lecturers could be recorded and made available to course enrollees around the world.  It would then be possible to have more challenging and longer discussion sections (perhaps with Prof. Ferguson present on occasion), and more feedback on the three required papers.  It's precisely because Prof. Ferguson is so talented that I found myself feeling a little dissatisfied at the end of this course.
Professor Ferguson is a fantastic lecturer! However, I wouldn't take this class if you dont have an interest in or some form of prior knowledge on the workings of financial institutions--it could get very confusing.
Take it if you want an easy class. Don't forget however that you have to write three essays and do some of the readings. The exams are all based on the lecture slides so just look up past exams, know the overarching themes, and know keywords.
Probably the most worthwhile class I have taken at Harvard so far. Professor Ferguson is a captivating lecturer, the TFs really help you write the essays, the work may seem daunting but it is very manageable. You will come out of the class knowing a ton about financial institutions, how to structure an argument, and interested about history itself. You come to Harvard to take a class like this. You will not be disappointed.
Great class - some background in economics/finance is helpful, but Ferguson is a great lecturer and this class keeps you interested
It was a good class but only if you have a keen interest in the subject matter. The class size should also be capped at something like 50; it felt too much like one of those unwieldy gen ed classes where you could participate just by following the readings marginally and attending lectures.
Great course. It would help to have a strong economics background, but Ec10 should suffice. Great lectures and great TFs. The assignments were actually very rewarding and I learned so much doing them. Don't expect Ferguson to be available outside of class.
This class is not an economics class, and that represents the true value of it. The financial system, crises and innovations are presented from a historian's perspective including social, cultural, political and other factors. If economics provides the calculations and models, this course offers an insight into the broader ideas and characters behind them as well as on history from a point of view that usually gets denied in the study of the past.
Professor Ferguson is an incredible lecturer.  He also leaves plenty of room for discussion, so if you're dying to make a point he'll absolutely call on you during class.  That being said, in my opinion there were far too many graduate school/other students (?) auditing the class, which made it difficult to make valid points when surrounded by so much expertise.  I think at one point during class a man raised his hand and started talking about the Great Depression, which he had apparently lived through.  It's hard to compete with that kind of knowledge.  Also, although it says no background in economics is required, you should at least know some financial terminology/history of American fiscal events, lest you want to spend hours wikipedia-ing terms in the more dense readings.  Prof. Ferguson's own books, however (three of which we read in whole or in part over the course of the class), are extremely accessible.
This class is a great way to learn about the origins of our current financial system and how they can help us understand modern economic crises. Professor Ferguson is a very engaging lecturer, and his style isn't all too different from the way he narrates his popular documentaries. Although labeled a history course, a background in basic economics and political economy is definitely necessary to grasp the material fully.
It's a great and entertaining class - but be prepared to read a lot!
Good course, but probably only take if you are a history major, since it no longer fulfills broader requirements (it did the year before I took it - and I had unfortunately looked at the wrong requirements...since they appear above mine on the Government website).
Great course to take, even if just as an elective or as a pass fail class!
Take this class! Professor Ferguson is a giant in the field and one of the best lecturers at Harvard.  He makes finance relevant to all other aspects of history.  If you are at all interested in international history or economics/finance, you will enjoy this course.
Ferguson explains the state of the world today
A great intro to financial history, but this is the broad themes, and they aren't always so accessible to people with little understanding of economic or financial theory.
