Professors Lepore and Menand are great and their lectures are terrific. However, most of the lectures will be student presentations so you will not hear much from the professors.
If you saw the instructors' names and weren't immediately excited, this is perhaps not the class for you. You need to have a lot of trust that the readings will come together cohesively at the end (and they do, promise.) In return, two of Harvard's most interesting professors will grade your papers, listen to you yammer in section, know your name.
This class covers great material but the professors are trying to screw you at the beginning in order to teach you that Harvard is wrong about historical analysis.
Check the future syllabus to see if the course has improved. I would give the instructors a "C" on layout and organization of the class if I had to grade it.  Also research task teams took up 60 of 90 minutes of lecture.
This is an incredible course. The class is rigorous and demands the best of your writing, but is also an opportunity to study directly under two outstanding professors and receive their direct feedback. As it was the first year the course was taught, there were a few organizational pieces to work out (how to write the papers, way too long student presentations) and though the professors try to provide some overarching narratives, the lectures function mostly as a series of interesting historical vignettes, often on topics on which the professors have authored articles or books. The course overall was great.
Brilliant professors and fascinating topics, but the class wasn't very cohesive in topic. Quite disparate, wish there would have been more of a string. These two professors were basically just teaching on stuff they like, which is sweet, but doesn't necessarily make for a coherent class.
Professor Menand and Professor Lepore are both brilliant and great lecturers--for that reason alone, this is a good class.  I also received thorough and thoughtful feedback on my writing, which I really appreciated.
Take this class if you're interested in the process of the history and not just the content.
This course is fantastic.  Take it if you can get in.  Great professors, fascinating subject matter, really cool readings.
I would be very excited for the second offering of this class because they'll have worked out all of the new class kinks. Lepore and Menand are phenomenal, and the sole reason you need to take it and love it. A little frustrating because the content is so general and the range of experience is so varied, but the readings and the lectures make up for it.
These two professors are amazing lecturers and extremely knowledgeable. The class is very research based and the readings (all primary sources) can be a bit dry, but the topics chosen were fascinating.
It's a good amount of work, but definitely worth it if you put in the time.
This class was great. The professors (both esteemed faculty members) were very committed to making this course a fantastic experience for students. If the course is offered again, I'm sure that it will be even better, because some of the small problems will be resolved.
Professors Menand and Lepore are all-stars, and a joy to listen to in lecture. But this class was extremely disorganized, and it was hard to get a lot out of class as a result. The student presentations we had were a drag on everything else that was going on. Still, it's an unparalleled opportunity to learn alongside these wonderful professors.
They need to restructure both content and assignments for class but otherwise awesome professors and format of 2 sections with one lecture
My favorite class that I've taken at Harvard! It's a great class for American history enthusiasts or those who are looking to learn about really interesting events and characters. It was really rewarding to learn how to write historical research papers in a a narrative form, especially when you have two celebrated writers evaluating your work. Although there are only two papers and two presentations, each of these assignments requires a great deal of time and effort but it is worth it. I wish I could take an iteration of this course every year!
This class is incredibly interesting, with two amazing professors who have truly interesting insights about the themes that tie together American history. The first year certainly had a few kinks, but I suspect they will be worked out by the next time. I definitely recommend this course.
The concept of a survey-type American Studies course is great, and the professors are clearly so well versed in the subject matter! The students also know a lot. The student presentations often seemed to take over the lecture portion of the class, and I would have liked more time for the professors to do their thing. Also, since it was a relatively small course, I would have liked to maybe have name placards so that we could converse that way and also be able to say hi to people we pass in the hall! Could have helped enhance the community built around the class. I think little blurbs in the course pack to contextualize the primary source docs, , because it was hard to get a sense of what we were reading.
American Studies is a wonderfully stimulating, challenging, and confusing discipline, and the chance to learn about it from two of its foremost practitioners, Jill Lepore and Louis Menand, should absolutely not be missed.  You will be expected to be able to research and write very well, but these are crucial skills to learn anyway, and Lepore and Menand are the best of the best at demonstrating them.  This year the course suffered a bit because class time was a little short and the sections a little big, but this is the first time the professors have offered the course, so I'm sure some of the logistical bumps will be smoothed in the future.  If you decide to take the course, apply, and then eventually get in, do take it seriously.  Lepore and Menand are not ordinary professors.  They are extremely talented and they care about undergraduates, so you should care about the work you do in the course.
Definitely a fun course! A reasonable amount of work, interesting readings, and two of the coolest professors at Harvard!
