This course is a great introduction to the history of books, and to a set of historical methods useful for doing many different types of historical research that involve the history of textual media.
Ann Blair is the best.
I thought I loved books until I took this class; now my passion borders on obsession. I learned so much and so much of what I learned is applicable to issues I care about: education, libraries, reading, and literacy. Professor Blair is an amazing instructor and History of the Book was the highlight of my semester.
History of the Book and of Reading is a true gem in the course catalog! I entreat you to take this course (or at least shop it!) if you a) harbor any sort of affection for and interest in books, b) enjoy small, interactive classroom settings that are largely discussion-based, c) prefer kind, enthusiastic, and engaging professors and TFs to cold and dispassionate ones, and/or d) have not yet fulfilled your Culture and Belief requirement. The class is very well-structured and managed, the course materials are fascinating, and the workload is manageable (and enjoyable!). Additionally, Professor Blair and Meredith Quinn are fantastic instructors and wonderful people.
Professor Blair and Meredith are both fantastic, knowledgeable, accessible, and excited to help you with your projects -- take advantage of that! Do take into account that much of the semester will consist of your self-guided research in addition to the material for readings and lectures. That said, the research can be incredibly interesting, and the course is designed with a series of exercises that help guide your research process. The biggest challenge for those from other fields could be learning to write and see things from a BOOK historian's perspective, but the topic is extremely relevant to current transitions in book and reading culture and development, and the teaching staff and guest lecturers are top notch and very enthusiastic about the material. Regular visits to Houghton library are a huge perk to the class as well.
Very good course, especially considering it's a gen-ed. Instructors were awesome, workload was manageable, and I feel like I learned a lot. Even if you think you aren't interested in the material, Professor Blair is a very good lecturer and much of the course is focused on teaching you to write a research paper on the topic of your choice. I feel much more prepared to tackle similar projects in the future.
This is a fantastic course!  Professor Blair is just wonderful--incredibly friendly and an engaging lecturer--and she effectively demonstrates why the study of book history is so important.  She does a great job of connecting history with modernity, showing how the study of the history of the book is particularly today--that is, in the so-called "digital age."
Really gets you interested, involved, and excited about the book history research process! A great gen ed that lets you actually learn something very interesting.
