This class is worth it if you are very interested in Ukraine and prefer the lecture format. Also, I would not take this course if you are interested in minority populations in Ukraine (except for the Jewish population).
It's lots of work, but if you do the work you learn what they say you'll learn!
The professor knows so much about the history of the region. A unique lens for viewing aspects of European history. I really learned a lot in the class.
This course provides students with an excellent opportunity to develop widely applicable analytic abilities while acquainting themselves with the history of an important yet widely misunderstood part of the world.
Take this class! It is not flashy or fancyProf. Plokhiis quiet way of speaking may turn some off who assume the class is boringbut if you listen to what he says you will learn a ton about a country that is in the process of trying to understand its own history just as we are. While so many classes at Harvard will bring up questions of identity national, religious, ethnic, etc. this class is a unique opportunity to learn about a fascinating struggle for identity that continues today. You must work hard to listen and do the book readings for it to pay off, but it really has the potential to in the end. I learned so much and am so grateful I took this class.
There are a fair amount of graduate students who are very well versed in Ukrainian history. It's a great class, but you will have to keep up on the readings to fully understand the lectures and discussions
Great course and the professor is awesome!
For those unacquainted with Ukrainian history (which I would figure to be most students at Harvard), this is an awesome class. Professor Plokhii covers a wide time range, from the Kievan Rus' period to modern Ukraine, and I can say pretty definitively that I've gotten the most from this class of my classes this semester. He's also accessible (the class is typically pretty small), and a good lecturer.
You should probably be interested in Ukrainian history before you take the course.  Also, try to engage with Professor Plokhii because he is an interesting guy.
This class is great if you already have some knowledge about European history and Russian history in which to ground your new knowledge otherwise I would imagine it would be somewhat difficult.
This class requires a lot of engagement on behalf of the student, do your readings and be prepared to make some substantial commentary during class.
If you are interested in the subject and considering taking the course, you should definitely give it a try. I learned a great deal about the subject and thoroughly enjoyed the lectures. It's also very interesting if you are studying identity issues in Eastern Europe.
I would encourage them to take this course. I found it surprisingly interesting and I never found myself checking my watch despite the 1.5 hr lecture length (this is a good sign!) The course materials are comprehensive and relevant, and the workload is quite reasonable. This course provides valuable context for today's political and cultural debates in Ukraine, so even if one isn't interested in history, it is still a worthwhile course for political science/government students.
Ukrainian history is really fascinating, and if you're looking for a different type of history that will be well taught by an easily accessible professor, this is it!
This is an interesting course with a significant but not at all unreasonable workload. The instructor is a clear and approachable lecturer, and there is some opportunity for discussion as well. The instructor also does a good job of situating national developments in a broader historical context, so for those who have an interest in Russian or Eastern European history, even if Ukraine isn't your primary focus, it may be worth your time (it wasn't mine, and I enjoyed this class).
Professor Plokhii is simply excellent. Take his courses and you will learn a lot.
This is an excellent course.  The lectures are informative, discussions are interesting, and you will learn a lot about Ukrainian history.  I'd recommend the course not only to people interested in Ukraine and the Russian/Soviet empires, but also people interested in European history more generally.
Great departmental history course, but may be too much to handle if taking it for a core unless you have some background in the history of central and eastern Europe. The lectures are engaging and the professor is extremely knowledgeable.
DO THE TEXTBOOK READING WHEN IT IS ASSIGNED
This is an intense history course so be prepared for that. However, Professor Plokhii is a fantastic lecturer so you will come out knowing a great deal about Ukrainian history.
Professor Plohii is clearly an expert on the subject and his lectures are engaging and fun. Definitely a worthwhile course!
"The stone which the builders had thrown away has become the corner-stone." Ukraine is an important country geopolitically, and has a vibrant culture and society. Additionally, Ukraine really is the "borderland" between East and West, and its a fascinating prism through which to view the history of intellectual trends of the 19th and 20th centuries. You can't really understand Russia, the World Wars, the Soviet Union, or the pitfalls of communism/nationalism without learning about Ukraine.
It was a great introduction to Ukrainian history and, for most of the class, Eastern European history in general.
If you want to have a concise but thematically and chronologically wide-ranging introduction to Ukrainian history, this is the course for you!
The material is challenging for those without a background in Ukraine, but very interesting and worthwhile.
