Absolutely depends on the speaker list. Also, be prepared for a class dominated by the law students.
The advantage of this course is the exposure it gives students to a range of professional viewpoints, rather than to the uncontested viewpoint of a single professor.
Take this course, it will change your life! This course historicizes Capitalism in a very useful way. Introduces you to some of the main currents in social thought on Capitalism.
gets closer than most approaches, especially in the 21st-c. moment, to specific global problems and issues, to the heart of the matter; denaturalizes our today, and studies the history of modern global capitalism
Amazing course and an amazing opportunity to hammer out unique and original research in the history of capitalism. It is also quite useful to get to see real scholars from outside Harvard working through their own work -- it also serves as a great model of how real research progresses and what it means to different audiences.
This course is an excellent way to engage with current and upcoming scholarship on the study of capitalism, and students have the opportunity to engage with students across disciplines and schools at Harvard on these issues.  There is a research component to this course, and while excellent support is provided early on, it's up to the student to seek out further support as the semester progresses.  The quality of research and presentation varies somewhat among the invited speakers, but in general these workshops constitute a very worthwhile experience.
Check the speaker listings before taking this course. Make sure that there is a good balance of interests among the students. Be prepared to take the initiative with your research.
It has the potential to be very good, but as of now it's unwieldy.
To enroll in this class with some trepidation: it lacks structure and the readings are often uninteresting. However, some of the lectures, discussions, and presentations are really enjoyable, and this is an excellent point of entry for people who might otherwise be overwhelmed by topics that are traditionally written off as overly dry or obtuse.
Know what you want to get out of it. The readings cover a broad area and the focus will come from you.
This course brings together an incredible array of scholars, working in many disciplines, for sustained discussion of important facets of the historical development of capitalism.
This is honestly one of the best courses at Harvard available for learning the historical craft. You get to see other historians' works in progress, see what sorts of criticism half-formed work generates, and collectively work through difficult questions about the history of capitalism. All the while, you get a full year to work through your own research paper, with lots of feedback from your fellow students and Profs. Beckert and Desan. I honestly cannot recommend this course enough for graduate students in search of a research seminar!
The capitalism workshop succeeds in including graduate students in a larger and purposeful community of scholars beyond the realm of doctoral research and beyond the confines of Harvard. It raised the bar for me.
It presents a great opportunity to address lasting and contemporary questions about capitalism with students from varied disciplines and ideological perspectives; it is bound to challenge the language and assumptions that you bring to the study of political economy.
