Very easy course, the requirements are 500 words a week, and it honestly teaches you how to write a paragraph, which Expos 20 surprisingly does not do very well. Prof Tworek is very engaging and very patient in his interactions with students, if a little fast-paced in delivery. Overall, great survey course; if you took AP Euro in high school, you'll gain a deeper understanding of Europe , and if you didn't, you'll learn basic Western history!
If you took AP Modern Euro, this class will be a breeze. Even if you don't have experience with European history it's not difficult to learn if you do the background readings.
This is a great course. It is a sustained effort throughout the semester with the weekly response papers and section meetings, but the material is interesting and the assignments aren't terribly cumbersome. It was great that there was an in-class final at the end of the semester.
This is a great class to take for anyone interested in European History at all. There were freshmen through seniors, and history, CS, and physics majors. It almost feels like a GenEd, but since it is a history course, is able to go a bit deeper than GenEds can. I really liked how it focused more on trends and what you can draw from events/people etc, opposed to just focusing on those things themselves. The response papers make you do the readings, but they are classic texts from the Prince to Free Will, and they only take about 2 hours to read once a week. And the response papers are way better than 2 big papers that come around when every other course in the world is also assigning a paper/midterm. Class is great, and the sections do a good job exploring the texts and not just reiterating what was taught in lecture. Also the in-class final exam is key and leaves you with one less thing to worry about come reading week.
The class is a great overview of the time period, and develops both historical thinking and synthesis of sources. It is not much required work weekly (only one 1-pg response paper based on reading) but an interesting class!
This was a really great class if you are interested in history, but it comes with a lot of reading which is at times quite heavy and concentrated on ecclesiastic theory. For the most part, it will be really fun to explore the writing of that time. If you are unfamiliar with the time period, it is essential that you read the textbook. Altogether, the professor and the TFs make it good. It's just that the powerpoint can feel quite useless or self explanatory and it would be great if they were more engaging or in depth.
This class has great information that everyone should know about "early modern Europe." However, be forewarned on these response papers - your success in the class greatly depends on your TF. Have a conservation early on about how you're being graded, and if you still have concerns, you should talk with the professor. I should have definitely done that. But again - this class will expose you to the "must knows" about European history, and important ideas which have changed the world.
Early Modern Europe was my first foray into Harvard's History department, and I must say it was a positive -- though by no means life-changing -- experience. The course is not overwhelming in the least; reading assignments are manageable and the weekly responses papers are straightforward. The midterms are lax, and the fact that there is no final paper or exam makes this course a great option for anyone looking for an enjoyable/rewarding exposure to Renaissance-French Revolution European History.
Not that hard, Tworek genuinely cares about the class and the students. I took it as an elective, but it would also be a great way to get a history requirement out of the way.
the material is worth the work. the culture!
This course made me love the period of Early Modern Europe! The structure of the course (weekly response papers) ensures that you do the readings and think about them enough to grasp the main themes. As a result, you always feel like you are up-to-date and it is easier to study for the exams. The design of the course and the choice of readings were highlights! Also, Professor Tworek was extremely enthusiastic about the subject and it showed.
Professor Tworek is highly engaging and really provides a great survey of early modern europe
I would highly recommend this course. Its very laid out such that you get a full picture of Early Modern Europe without being overwhelmed with too many dates. I actually like the weekly response papers over one or two big papers because they are easier to crank out and you can rack up points through them. Mid-term  (I haven't taken final yet) was very fair and manageable.
This was an amazing class that made you excited to learn about Early Modern Europe.
My favorite class of the year. Great lectures, great sections.
This course was a great introduction to European history and the history department. I enjoyed the lectures and the readings. Because the course load was not overwhelming, I was really able to enjoy the course.
This class is a fantastic survey of ~15th  18th century Europe. Tworksey presents and organizes lectures effectively, with each one centered around a specific theme. He keeps them more interesting than any other History lecturer Ive seen here. Workload is fair, with just  2 weekly 250-word response questions and two tests. Overall a great and manageable course.
This is a good survey class and a good introduction to History at Harvard. There are only two exams and weekly response papers so the workload is very manageable. If you took AP Euro in high school, this class would be VERY easy, but you probably wouldn't learn much. I hadn't taken any European history classes before so I learned a lot.
This is a good introductory history course. The course material is undeniably interesting. If you aren't sold on taking an intense history class or are deciding if you want to concentrate in history, I'd take this class. It's relatively easy, there's not too much of an emphasis on dates, and the TFs and Professor Tworek try really hard to make sure all students are on the same page.
This class almost feels like an AP history class from high school in its set up. The assignments are not very rigorous and the exams are probably going to be some of the easiest that you take in college. That being said, a lot of very interesting material is covered, and you will have the opportunity to engage with many extremely influential primary source texts that form the backbone of the Western Canon.
This class is great but only if you are already well versed on Early Modern Europe. Honestly, you should see it as less of a history class and more of aesthetic and interpretive reasoning class, since most of section time is spent analyzing text than actually learning the facts and figures of the time period.
Going into this class, I had little to no idea about what happened in Early Modern Europe, but was simply open to learning something.  I hadn't taken a history class in years, and this one reminded me of how fun they can be.  Professor Tworek's lectures are very informative and well organized, and guide you smoothly from questions about the given event or topic to possible causes, results, and interpretations.  The amount of reading is reasonable -- about 2-4 hours per week -- and the readings are generally engaging, informative, and memorable. Highly recommend!
A solid course on European history, especially if you didn't take AP Euro or the equivalent in high school. You'll read some great works that form good background for the broader history.
very personable take on early modern european history
A well formed class with a great teaching staff, that cares deeply about their performance. I learnt some great things, from an important period of European history, and read some important people too.
Professor Tworek and the TFs are quite excited by the material and you get a great understanding of a whole range of important early modern European concepts. The weekly response papers can be a bit tedious but overall the work is fairly balanced throughout the semester which is a huge plus.
Absolutely take this class. I am a Computer Science concentrator, yet I took this class on a whim and learned more in it than I did in any other class at Harvard (I've taken 24 classes so far). Tworek is wonderful, and his lectures are the same exact style every time (but you have to be able to write quickly!), so you know what to expect. Assignments are limited to weekly papers which only took an hour of reading, and an hour of writing. Make sure you ask how the papers will be graded. Very manageable class, but requires that you pay attention in lecture (although Tworek makes it easy!)
Michael does a great job of generating excitement for the subject matter while making it accessible to a broad range of students. If you're lucky enough to work with Polina as your TF, she also does a great job of making the class an enjoyable academic exercise.
Great history course, though more Hist and Lit than pure History.
Have fun!
It feels like a gen-ed sometimes, but it's not. Do the readings! The ones that are assigned for section are mostly very interesting
You get what you put into the class. It's easy to skate by and do a minimal amount of reading, but it's really rewarding when you are an active participant.
History 1155 is a fantastic introduction to European history. It is similar in scope to AP Euro, and covers many of the same topics, which might be worth considering. The professor is excited by his subject and eager to share his interest with the class.
This class, in a largely unaltered form, should be mandatory to graduate from the college.
This course provides an awesome overview of Early Modern Europe. The weekly response papers though a little tedious at times ensure that you are always deeply engaging with the material making preparation for exams easier. Section can be a little bit of a drag especially if everyone does not do the readings. However, Professor Tworek's lectures are always interesting and engaging. Overall a very fair class!
This course was a great survey history course (and those can be hard to find)! Professor Tworek makes lectures quite engaging, and many of the readings allow you to delve into authors that you may well have always wanted to read. The readings are manageable each week, with weekly response papers, a midterm, and an in-class final.
I don't feel like I have learned that much because this course covers themes and spans too long and too much geographical area. If you have previous knowledge of Early Modern Europe, you will not gain much new knowledge from this course.
Great class!  Good way to fulfill the Premodern period for History concentrators.
A little boring, but relatively easy and important to know
This class covers a lot of material, but in an efficient and organized way. The balance between background and primary sources is good, and lectures are interesting.
Really well taught class. Lectures are really well rehearsed. It sometimes seems difficult to get a good grade though no matter how much effort you put into it. It is very confusing how the class is sometimes graded.
Easy midterm/final, but the course set up is a little weird. The material is obviously in a survey format, but it's kind of random what we cover and what we don't.
