This class was harder than I expected. There is a lot of reading, and it was tough to take it along with two other heavy reading classes. The tests were also graded more difficult than I had expected.
This class is in the history dept. but that shouldn't intimidate you. The readings are very manageable, and the content is always pretty clear (though there's a lot of it). Midterm/final no surprises....and there's just one paper. Take it! Prof. Weld's always excited to lecture/teach; she genuinely enjoys it.
Weld is a very engaging lecturer, but the course covers so many different countries making the exams difficult to study for. I was also not thrilled with my sections -- it caused me more stress than was beneficial to my knowledge of the material.
This is an interesting course in terms of the material and time period covered.  However, each lecture is so packed with information that it is often times way too overwhelming and too much.  Professor Weld certainly knows the material very well, but she speaks in such rapid fire and with so much information that it is just not accessible.  Furthermore, at least this year, one of the two TFs for the course was not helpful at all.
This class is amazing! It gives you knowledge of the history of all the big countries and some of the smaller countries of Latin America. I also feel like I know the broader, cultural history and movements of Latin America. This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard, and that's coming from an economics concentrator!
TAKE GOV 1295 INSTEAD!  It covers much of the same material, but presents many sides and allows you to take critical views of history.  Prof. Weld is a good lecturer though.
Great class and not strenuous! I did very few of the readings (because there were simply too many) and attended every lecture but one (that's really where you learn what you need to know for the exams). The midterm and exam both cover a boatload of information, but they are absolutely fair and give you choices (e.g. 5/9 IDs). Lectures feel fairly rushed but not unmanageable (I recommend taking notes on a computer). And you can write the research paper (a non-intimidating 10-12 pages) on any topic you would like!
READ THE STUFF IT's REALLY INTERESTING
This is a good class to get your non-western requirement for history concentrators, while still being somewhat western.  Be careful, however, since it is a class with a heavy liberal bias.
If you have a general interest in Latin American history take the class. It is a great way to get a different perspective on Latin America from the Mexican war to the Cuban Revolution.
Professor Weld is a rising star and she's crafted a great class. The course covers a diversity of themes on Latin American history in a brisk but enjoyable way. Professor Weld's lectures are efficient and engaging, and the small number of assignments are easy and fairly assessed.
The course material is fascinating, and there is much that is important to learn about the subject.
Not only is the subject matter almost too broad to cover in one semester, it is often subject to the Professor's biases. Such biases include often glorifying communism and approaching the material with an unchecked anti American sentiment.
I learned an unbelievable amount of history in this course. As a citizen of the United States and the Western hemisphere, I am embarrassed that I was completely oblivious to most of this history before taking this class. Professor Weld is an extremely accessible and devoted teacher. I now want to travel/work in Latin America after learning the tumultuous but interesting histories of these countries. I got a lot more from this class than just facts and famous names, and I know the historical narratives will stay with me for a long time.
The course is very broad, and the readings can be overwhelming and feel unnecessary.
This class covers 200+ years of history across 20+ countries. It is a lot of material and feels very disorganized at times. That being said, it will give you a good overview of Latin American history.
the lectures are interesting and fairly engaging, but it covers a lot so you aren't able to get into much detail about most subjects
Because this is one of the few Latin America courses, this is a must-take for people with historical interest in the region.  However, Weld is very liberal and spends most of the class demonizing the US (usually justified, but not always, and it gets redundant/annoying) and criticizing governments (also usually justified, but the violent counterinsurgencies were rarely better, but Weld only acknowledged this twice).  Also, because the class tried to cover way too much history, she is forced into a lot of unfortunate generalizations and ignores a lot of interesting countries/events.
This is an incredible class. I had never before studied Latin American history and learned an unbelievable amount throughout the semester. Lectures, sections, and readings were all always engaging. As a government concentrator, I recommend this class to both history and non-history concentrators who are interested in learning more about Latin America. If at all interested in Latin America, you won't be disappointed.
Prof. Weld is an incredible lecturer, even on topics that might be considered dry.  There's a lot of reading for this class, but most of it is interesting.  If you only read a few things, read the primary sources -- they're fascinating, well-selected, and worth it.  The grading on exams seemed fair.  Not a lot of feedback - you definitely need to reach out to teaching staff to get some grades back and understand why you scored as you did.  This class gave me the historical backbone and reckoning to vague conceptions I had about Latin American history, and I think no U.S. college student's education should be without such a course.
It's an interesting course and Professor Weld is a good lecturer, but it is hard to cover the entire history of modern Latin America in one semester. You'll have to put in a lot of work to keep up, but you'll end the semester knowing a great deal about an area of the world that many people remain ignorant of.
Take this course!! Be prepared to have hand cramps from how fast professor Weld speaks...and don't be afraid to not write down everything she says. This class is great and will give you a framework for Latin America, the United States, and world politics that you probably have not had before. Incredibly informative and by far the best gened I've taken at Harvard.
Professor Weld is a phenomenal lecturer. I would take anything she teaches in the future.
If you want to learn about Latin American history, take this class! It feels fast since it tries to cover 500 years of history, and sometimes confusing since it covers so many countries. But Prof. Weld is an excellent lecturer, and assignments are fair. Reading load is not bad at all, but the quality of the readings occasionally leaves something to be desired. The course also seems to favor a left-leaning political view (was not a problem for me, but might be for some). Overall: GREAT course! Highly recommended!
This course will increase your understanding of the Americas (yes, also US) tremendously. I haven't taken Steven Levitzky's class, but I think Hist 1513 offers much of the same information, but from a slightly different perspective (history vs. gov) and with more manageable readings. That said, a study group is crucial--it is a ton of material.
This is a great class content wise. I do not regret taking this class and I believe everyone should have a thorough understanding of the history of Latin American countries.  However, the professor does not provide any lecture notes and often does not give lectures about historical events in chronological order which can be very confusing.  Information about assignments are not given in a clear manner.  The tfs often spend section asking either questions with obvious answers or where it is clear they are just waiting for a student to give the answer they have prepared. It gives you that feeling that it would be easier if the tf just gave a lecture instead of asking discussion questions.
This course was absolutely fantastic.  Professor Weld is a dynamic lecturer and Lars was an amazing TF.  Be prepared to take notes at a really fast pace and attend each lecture of this incredible course.  Must-take for History Concentrators and Gen-Ed'ers alike!
while more demanding than a typical gen ed, this course gave a great introduction to latin american history and general themes of history, ranging from imperialism and colonialism to neoliberalism and resistance. weld is an AMAZING professor and educator, and although her lectures can initially be a bit overwhelming, her historical analysis and knowledge are ridiculously spot-on, making lecture a really rewarding experience.
This class is one of the first classes I have genuinely enjoyed. There aren't many classes on Latin America at Harvard so I was very excited to here that this class was being offered for the first time. It was a very good course, the lectures were amazing! Professor Weld has a mastery of the history of Latin America that translates into her natural (but fast) speaking ability. The class is not hard at all as long as you commit to doing the readings every week. Besides that, the two tests and final research essay are considerably less work than many other classes. But these three materials cover a very wide base of material (especially the tests), so the material overcomes you quickly if you don't do keep up with the readings.
The content of this course is interesting and important. It is worth taking to have the opportunity to read the primary and secondary sources alike, but do not expect to enjoy the semester. Weld is disinterested in developing relationships with students and enforces harsh rules on the class. One of the TFs had no background in the history of Latin America. Hopefully this will improve in future years.
Harder than an average Gen Ed, but incredibly rewarding and interesting. Weld is an awesome lecturer, but they are jam packed with info. Readings are manageable but plentiful - can definitely skim. Tests are the most important factor, but an end of semester paper is also a time suck.
