Professor Kloppenberg is wonderful. You should take a class from him at some point during your time at Harvard. That being said, don't take this class if you're not interested in education; you read a lot of good James and Dewey, but it's also very much based in the history of education from 1890 to 1930.
Awesome class! You learn so much about the history of the United States' public education system and higher education system and their grounding in ideals of American democracy. Important for American citizens to know why the American education system developed the way it did and some of the historical causes for its inequities. Professor Kloppenberg does not give extensions at all so be careful when planning your schedule.
This class is really interesting and being with Tina and Professor Kloppenberg is a huge bonus, but I did find the readings to be sometimes tedious and slightly repetitive. I think it would have been interesting to supplement our readings on education with readings about other social issues of the time, as they pertained to education.
This class allows you to engage with some fascinating historical forces in the history of U.S. education, including the marginalization of religion in universities, feminization of the work force, propagation of the Hampton-Tuskegee pedagogical model in the South, and the standardization of medical schools, among others. Professor Kloppenberg is an incredible thinker and caring teacher. If you haven't yet taken a course with him, do it!
This course is truly a gem, and here's why. Professor Kloppenberg and Tina really know how to teach. Every class at its heart is this really awesome adventure, where you walk in sometimes not fully understanding all the different parts of the readings but then you walk out with not only a deeper understanding of the readings but also the interesting and surprising ways that they connect to each other and to your own life. The class was fundamentally a conversation, and it was a conversation that allowed us to not only learn more about the substantive subject matter, but also allowed us to learn from each other. The genius of this class was that it truly gave each of us so much agency in shaping our own educational experience, from leading discussions to conducting our own original research project. Do yourself a favor and take this class.
Take this class if you're interested in history and theoretical concept but not if you're interested in modern topics in education. Some topics touch on modern day issues but not enough exploration is afforded these.
Professor Kloppenberg and Tina are both great.  This course teaches you a lot about the history of education in the US.  There is a fair amount of philosophy in the course, which led to thought-provoking discussions, but sometimes I felt there was too much emphasis on philosophy and not enough on history.
