Great way to learn Irish history and deepen your understanding of British history if you've already gotten the Whig version in some other class. Dr. Moulton makes things very interesting with primary sources, movies, images and literature from every time period. The readings are never boring.
This is a great course to get your feet wet in British history. The Four Nations/Celtic Fringe approach is very interesting and is something that can be applied to other areas of history. Mo and Josh are very knowledgable and passionate about the material and are very understanding about assignments and happy to help and explain things. Some really interesting readings/sources, lectures that are great and go by too fast, and decent section. Because in some ways it's a survey class and because (at least I felt like) since I'm not British I can't have the same level of engagement with the material, it's not necessarily the most intellectually challenging class, but this class was a pleasure and something to look forward to, a nice way to balance out a class schedule.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  Awesome history class with an interesting and even-handed treatment of British experience.  I thought this would be a one-dimensional "grievance class" via Celtic minority voices, but lectures (and the history) were much more nuanced than that, and I learned a lot about England as well.  Mo is a great lecturer, and you can tell she's invested in creating a great classroom environment.  Two thumbs up.
I did not fall in love with this class but it was enjoyable and helped me get a sense of what taking a pure "history" class at Harvard is like.
This course provides a good overview of British and Irish history, with an emphasis on the "Celtic Fringe" (Ireland, Scotland, and Wales) as opposed to the typical England-centric narrative.  It also allows students to specialize in either Ireland, Scotland, or Wales for the three short paper assignments.  Lectures are often engaging, although sections were not great.  I also think the course could generally be a bit more structured in future iterations, with more background information on certain topics.
Don't take this class thinking that you will learn more about English-centered British History. Even for people who have been studying British history of a while this class is a revelation. The times we talked about England were kept at the bare minimum. You will learn a lot however, about British history from the perspective of the Irish, Scottish and Welsh. It is a great class because despite the fact that it looks at four different nations it still manages to progress logically and forces you to think about deep issues relating to British history. The readings are manageable and a lot of fun, the lecture are well organized and never boring. The papers give you space to do independent work. Mo is an amazing lecturer and a great person to talk to, while Josh had always something funny and insightful to contribute to during sections. Definitely a must-take for those who like British history or want to learn more about it.
This course provides some highlights of interactions between England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland over a large number of years, which are not always the same as the high points in general British history. There are many interesting documents and articles along the way, which often have to do with everyday life.
This class is wonderful. Mo is an incredible lecturer and she presents the material very thoughtfully and eloquently. Don't let any of the material fall by the wayside, and you'll be fine.
Be ready to do a lot of assignments like a high school class
This class offers a really interesting and engaging way to look at British history from a four nations perspective. The assignments are fair although writing 7 page research papers (3 of them) during the school year can be very time consuming, but there are only three so it doesn't end up being to bad. Reading is very manageable and both Prof Moulton and the TF Josh are very nice and very easy to reach out to.  Also it is a small lecture class so it is engaging and participation heavy.
The material covered in this class is definitely interesting, and the course materials and lectures are downright fascinating. The workload is reasonable, but the assignments are vague, and the class covers so a broad span of topics that it can feel disjointed at times, and it can be hard to keep the information straight.
This class is a very fascinating approach to British history that really helps supplement an understanding of Britain in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
This class was great.  Professor Moulton was a great lecturer.  The readings/movies/materials were really interesting and well varied.  Make sure you realize that the research papers (three of them! ouch) are actual research papers and take a lot of extra work and reading/research.  The different approach of the class was really interesting though.  The four nations approach to British history should be taught more often.
