Censorship is construed broadly enough in this class to attract a wide range of interests; you do not have to specialize in censorship to find it rewarding. No one should miss an opportunity to see and hear Professor Darnton in a more informal setting, and the readings are diverse are fascinating. An opportunity to broaden horizons and think 'big picture' about the power of the state, meaning and language, laws and customs, etc., while engaging with case studies (through readings that should be read closely) that give classes a grounding in fixed events.Highly recommended
This class was brilliant. Dr. Darnton is very obviously enthusiastic about the topic, and this enthusiasm was contagious throughout the semester. The readings can be tedious, but they are very interesting and inspire good discussions in class. Definitely take this course if the topic interests you!
If you're even considering taking this class, do yourself a favor, stop thinking about it, and take it. You will not regret it. Here is an opportunity to study a topic (censorship) whose relevance has been enlarging here, on campus, in this country, on this planet, faster than a bacteria colony. It's an opportunity to indulge on forays into historical areas (France, Britain, Poland, East Germany, South Africa--you get the picture) whose diversity will astonish and intrigue you. Leading the class you have two of the most empathetic professors you'll come across in this, or any University. (Next year, or, I suppose the year you'll be reading this, that number will be one, I hear.) You don't understand how much of a treat this class is until you're sitting in the seminar room, discussing thrilling ideas, and learning not just history, but also fundamentally what it is to be a human. (And not just from the readings. Especially from the professors.) Really, stop your thinking about taking this class and save it for the class. I can't imagine how you could leave regretting it.
Great opportunity to write a research paper on anything even loosely connected to censorship/surveillance.  Wide range of case studies.  Professor Darnton is incredibly well read and knowledgable on almost all topics.
You look at censorship in a variety of different places and times so there isn't always the time to discuss the historical context of the censorship you are analyzing. Its important to do that research on your own so that you can keep up with the discussions in class
Don't take the course unless you are really interested in studying censorship for its own sake, because the course will not try to apply it to other, larger issues.
Professor Darnton is perhaps the most lucid thinker I have encountered.
