It is particularly easy course. It's a very basic survey of news and if you have any knowledge of how news agencies function, then you're pretty much set.
For anyone interested in contemporary or historical news, this class is for you. Heidi did a fantastic job of organizing this class, with a progression of lectures that built on itself very nicely and interesting mini-assignments each week. I don't know if I've ever gotten the amount of constructive feedback I got in this class from any other class. It made me think about journalistic norms of objectivity and even the role of comedy in our news. Enjoyed every bit of it!
This course is great if you have any interest in news/journalism and its history!  Prof. Tworek's lectures are highly engaging and organized, and section discussions were great.  Assignments are often interesting and not too stressful (weekly mini-assignments, three short papers, and a final research paper or project, as opposed to exams).
This class is very interesting/engaging in both section and lecture and is especially useful for students who rely on news in other areas of research (esp. history/hist&lit concentrators).
I would (and have!) recommended this course to all kinds of students. Anyone interested in the subject matter or anyone considering taking a history course. Heidi is a dynamic lecturer and an instructor who is truly interested in getting to know her students and making sure they enjoy/benefit from the course.
This course is literally perfect. Professor Tworek is awesome, the lectures are interesting and well-structured, you learn a lot of material that is relevant to society and life, section is engaging, the readings are good, and the work is painless (and at times fun!).I highly recommend this course, especially to people with an interest in history and/or journalism!Take it, you won't regret it.
TAKE THIS COURSE!
This is a wonderful course! I would recommend any student with even the slightest interest in knowing how the news we read is generated and where it came from. It has changed my perspective on the news industry and it has changed the way I read news. TAKE IT!
Prof. Tworek is a phenomenal educator who makes the subject matter interesting to everybody no matter his/her background.
This was a really good class, and would be a good intro to the history department if you're a freshman and interested in concentratingthe reading is good but manageable and the final paper is a short research paper, so it's a good taste if you haven't done history research before. Heidi is so nice and Jamie is a really great guy too. It's not too hard, just three short papers outside the final paper, so you could probably take it with a heavier course load!
This is an incredible class! One of the best I've taken at Harvard. The content is fascinating and really helpful in terms of developing an understanding of journalism, its evolution and important implications re public opinion.  The lectures are great, Heidi is fantastic, she is extremely smart and her lectures are also very engaging - she remembers students' names and makes a real and genuine effort to get to know the students in the class.  The TF's were also awesome, Jamie is so great which made section worthwhile. The assignments are a good mix of mini assignments and short papers - none are super time consuming, but they're all interesting. I would definitely recommend this class to anyone interested in this topic -- it's an awesome introduction to the history department and a great way to learn about news.
A great course for anyone who is interested in the development of news media. Also a great opportunity to learn a lot without slaving for hours over readings and assignments.
Professor Heidi's lectures are incredibly engaging and well-planned. She takes the time to experiment with different methods of involving the class and each person as she teaches. It was such a pleasure to be a member of the class and looking back I was so impressed by how much ground we covered, spanning from the Roman Empire to the modern day use of the internet. TAKE THIS CLASS!
I absolutely loved this class. Heidi Tworek is an amazing lecturer and the material is fascinating. You basically get a combination world history and media/communications history course in one. After you take the course, you will not think of any world events the same way again. You'll come to understand the power of the press on a whole new level. The course also has an extremely fair workload, so it won't kill you. Awesome course with great section leaders too!
Professor Tworek is phenomenal and section really allows students to delve into the subject matter. Readings aren't always necessary, but definitely do them because they are enjoyable and never tedious. Assignments are a blast.
Take this class - it is so interesting, well taught, and so fun!
This class is excellent! Heidi is a spectacular lecturer, the interactive mini-assignments are not difficult but introduce you to innovative research methods and materials, the final paper or project can be about anything you would like (that is relevant to the course), and the TFs (at least this year) were fantastic. I highly recommend this class to anyone, whether you are a history concentrator or looking for a fascinating elective.
interesting topic for the most part, class gets better as the semester goes on
This is a unique history class; one that doesn't weigh you down with readings and allows for a more interactive component through the use of mini-assignments and short papers, instead of writing long papers.  The topics coveredfrom newspapers to radio to TV to the internetare super interesting, and gives you a great perspective on how news has evolved over time.
This is a must take if you're interested in news or American history. Do the readings, you'll get a lot out of them.
For anyone interested in news or history, this is an absolutely fantastic course to take! It will definitely change how you view and interact with media in your everyday life. Professor Tworek does a wonderful job connecting the history of news to its use today. She makes lecture interactive and does a great job getting to know each one of her students.
Heidi is terrific and the learning about the history of news and the media is something everyone can enjoy.
This is a fantastic course! Professor Tworek is an enthusiastic and effective lecturer and the subject matter is fascinating. This class definitely changed how I view news today. I feel like I learned so much not only about news, but about the historical context of major developments in information technology (like the invention of the telegraph).
Definitely worth taking.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Professor Tworek knows how to lead engaging lectures so that you enjoy coming to learn each week. I especially enjoyed the weekly assignments, especially the digital ones when you had to write blog posts and could comment on other students's work.
This class is wonderful for anyone interested in how we came to communicate the way we do. It will teach you to evaluate sources, which may not sound extremely useful. But that skill helps immensely in reading anything--you have to know what perspective a writer has before they write something.
The discussion is not always as engaging as it could be but the material is generally quite interesting, Heidi is absolutely awesome, and the reading load is reasonable.
This is an extremely interesting reading seminar! Though some of the readings might seem a bit obscure, and maybe each unit will not interest you, this class goes into many fascinating topics in depth, and you will have a much better understanding of how the study of history works when you leave!
An excellent class if you are interested in the history of communications. Deals mainly with political aspects and the U.S. is the focus of much of the class. Ms. Tworek keeps the discussion lively, makes the material interesting and teaches a lot along the way. An Awesome history course!
If you are interested in how communication among and within societies has evolved over time and how this evolution has impacted our political, economic and cultural life, this course is made for you.
This class is fun and interesting and is relevant to more than just juniors studying history. However, if you are serious about history be warned that many of the fellow students will not be coming from that perspective.
Such an interesting and inspiring seminar! I highly recommend anyone to take this course--regardless of your academic background. Prof. Tworek is not only extremely knowledgeable about the history of news, but she teaches in such an opening and welcoming environment that allows everyone to contribute to the discussion. You also learn SO much about news that you couldn't have imagined--really, it's a phenomenal course!
This class is extremely rewarding if you complete the readings. Discussions in section complement readings in a way that makes the course an overall great experience. I definitely recommend this class if you enjoy history.
