This is US history that is not always taught, but which should be learned by everyone. The themes in this course can help us to be more intentional and conscious of our collective background as Americans.
The instructor is hot and really cool.Ha ha! Its an exciting course that speaks to present day events. Its very relevant to the political culture and policy of today
Sounds very attractive, yet ends up getting bogged down in highly specific events and interpretations, while frustratingly avoiding the big questions and themes of US Imperialism. If you are interested in the social, discourse and identity portions of imperialism, then perhaps this course will be a good match. However if you are expecting a hard-hitting account of US Imperialism, with description of tools, systems, structures and tendencies, then you may be disappointed.
This course is a poorly taught survey course. Lectures are rushed through and is mostly the professor doling out facts. Very little discussion takes place. Section is frustrating as the one  TF for this course knew very little about the material. She was, however, a harsh grader--which is ironic. The Final assessments--1) 12-15 pg paper due Tuesday before finals and 2) a take home final of two more essays two days later on that thursday--make up 55% of the grade so make sure you have nothing to do that week (being ironic here because it's finals). The course needs to be condensed and restructured for sure.
Take this course if you want a solid understanding of how U.S. imperialism functioned in the 20th century.
Don't be fooled by the German accent-- Dr. Droesller not too stern a guy (for a German born professor) and actually a fair-minded, excellent teacher. Inquire about American hip-hop.
This is a great class for any student who wants to learn about trends in, and animating logics behind, US foreign policy from the 1890s onwards. Professor Droessler's lectures were interesting and informative, as were course readings. Kathryn did a great job asking important big questions in section that were hinted at by our readings. The course both questions assumptions about the intentions behind policy and notes the existence of trends that should not be ignored in scholarship on the subject, a rare and powerful combination. The course perhaps did not achieve the deepest, most exhaustive look at trends in US foreign policy, but as the above description should relate, it starts to build toward these. For that reason alone, I think the course is worth taking.
