In would tell them what material history is. It's impossible to know before going in, since it's a "new" field and no one's written about what it entails.
This isn't an easy class and you will be frustrated.  However History 97 is required, and if you want to move away from historical essays/papers and and readings, and examine a side of history you might not be familiar with then try and be placed in this class.  Prof. Smail and Devin might seem abrasive at times, but they do care and work their hardest to improve you as a writer and historian.
This is a demanding class so be prepared to work hard. If you put in the work you will greatly improve as a writer.
It should definitely be labeled as a research course.
This class should be required for all history concentrators, and possibly anthropology concentrators as well, it adds such an extreme level of depth to the most mundane or simple-seeming objects in the world and can lead to some fascinating insight in all fields. It is fantastic and engaging and really a fantastic tutorial.
Tough at first but definitely a useful exercise.
This class is a great way to get trained for writing high-quality history papers. If you're planning on going into academia, definitely take this course.
Take this class if you want to know more about how the objects around you shape the world that you live in and how they shaped the past. Readings are not engaging, but you won't be expected to read them too closely. Professor Smail is absolutely lovely and willing to get to know you and give good feedback your writing
Professor Smail is an excellent professor: he is helpful, accessible, incredibly knowledgable about the topic, and is enthusiastic about the course material. You will learn to look at history from various angles and be a better writer as a result from the class.
I would recommend this class for people who already have some idea of what they would like to write about. Dan is almost frighteningly enthusiastic, and Carla was a great TF (effective writing/revision help) even though she did not have extensive background in material history. This course was very discussion based and somewhat open ended. The title "WHAT IS material history" should have tipped me off about the likelihood of broad sweeping theoretical discussions. Broad, sweeping, and theoretical are not usually words that I find encouraging. However, I still really enjoyed the enthusiasm and constructive-ness (in terms of writing skills) of this class, and managed the semester without engaging too much with texts that I did not understand.
This was a good class!  I learned a lot about how to do history and how to write history papers. It was also interesting and I though the material history aspect was really interesting and great.  Prof. Smail is also great!
If you haven't studied material history than this course will change the entire way you think about history.
I wholeheartedly recommend preferencing this tutorial for 97. You won't find a professor more engaged than Professor Smail. He and the TF Carla are so committed to helping you improve your writing.
