If you want to be in the presence of a brilliant professor who understands how you think and helps you grow, you should take a class with Prof. Kamensky.
This class is useful if you are interested at all in moving past the typical historical narrative of the American Revolution.
This class is a time sink, but, if you have the time for it, it's incredibly worth it. If you're looking for a chill gen ed, look elsewhere--this course requires about 3 hours of reading before each class and will require you to write four papers. There's also quite a big discussion component, so you really can't blow off the readings.  You'll get out of it what you put into it, so if you read and come ready to be engaged, you'll come out of the class having learned a ton about the American Revolution, and, if you're new to history like I was, historical research methods. As a senior, this is one of the best organized and thought-out classes I've taken during my time here, so if you have any interest in the subject matter, or just want a good history class to take, check it out!
This is largely a good class, and you certainly learn a lot about non-traditional narratives of the American revolution. That being said, the class is structured around "group work" and digital assignments, and class feels almost like a high school history class. Lab trips to the archives, map room, and art museum are cool, but I'm not sure I learned a huge amount about the war itself (much more cultural history than political/military history).
This is a phenomenal class! I went to the first lecture during shopping week with no intention of taking it because I didn't think I was interested in the American Revolution -- Prof. Kamensky immediately convinced me that the Revolution was not only deeply interesting, even to someone outside of the history department/not inclined to explore stuff that happened 200 years ago, but also relevant to all kinds of important discussions today. The class changes the traditional narrative of the Revolution quite a bit, focusing on the shakiness of the patriot cause and the experiences of many social groups often treated as peripheral. The war is treated much more like a war than like the intellectual debate APUSH often frames it as. The readings for this course (~200 pages/week, though you can get away with some skimming) are varied and interesting, and the assignments push you to dive deeply into primary materials. Any effort you put in is multiplied many times in the reward -- feedback on assignments is great and pushes you, and Prof. Kamensky is great at integrating good discussion into lecture. You are encouraged to use a lot of different media for exploring history (online, audio/visual, etc.), though if you'd like to stick to more traditional methods that's fine too. Prof. Kamensky and Pete (if he TFs again, he's wonderful!) are both super approachable, engaging, and supportive. I loved this class, even though it was outside my academic comfort zone--you should give it a shot! :)
This is a great class and Professor Kamensky is an incredibly intelligent academic. Expectations for Omeka assignments can be a little unclear at first but in terms of content they are really not that different from conventional essays. This is definitely one of the better classes in terms of experiencing the time period first hand, as the course takes several trips to the Harvard Archives and Harvard Art Museums to look at 18th-century paintings, documents etc. Assigned readings can be a little heavy at times but the actual workload is very reasonable. This class is especially good if you have an interest in early American history, early modern European history, history of the British Empire etc. I'd absolutely recommend taking this course.
This is a challenging course; expect to devote a large portion of your time to it. That said, it is incredibly interesting and Professor Kamensky is incredibly knowledgeable and passionate about the material.
