Professor Lepore is my hero.
This class was fantastic. I hadn't been particularly interested in the early American period, and the class's structure around our own research helped me find something to get invested in.
This was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Lepore is a fantastic professor, and the course is actually designed to guide you through your research (unlike some research seminars where you just mainly do your research on the side of just taking a seminar).
This class is one of the last bastions of field trips at Harvard. You get to go into Boston and see history for yourself. But beyond that, the class is a great chance to work with Jill Lepore and her enthusiasm. The class has a lot of work, but a lot of good discussion.
If you're a history concentrator, or you are just really interested in stalking some random old dead person through history, do it.  But be prepared to sink a lot of time.
Amazing class, but it may be difficult if you have not written a history paper at Harvard before.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Every week you will be surrounded by engaged peers and an absolutely fantastic professor.  The primary project is exciting and interesting but completely manageable because of the course's structure.  This class will remind you why you came to Harvard--it has been an amazing academic experience.
Maybe the best class I've taken during my time at Harvard. Professor Lepore is amazing, so much fun to learn from and so helpful with your work. The class itself is also great as you really get to know your fellow students through a walking tour in Boston, a trip to the MFA, an in-class scavenger hunt, and more. Just a great learning experience with an awesome professor and a must-take if you're interested in the American Revolution.
This is a great class if you have the time to devote to it. There are MASSIVE readings, some weeks 200-300 pages to 'skim.' You have to be prepared to talk in class; class participation is 30% of the grade. You have to know how to manage time WELL, since the final paper is worth 50% of the grade and isn't due till the beginning of finals. But it's a great opportunity to learn about the history of Harvard and Boston, and to get a chance to work with original historical documents. If you've never had the chance to touch a 240-year-old piece of paper with handwriting by a person who lived while this was still England, it's a pretty stunning experience to realize these people were real and they actually lived and worked around here."GO and catch a falling star, Get with child a mandrake root, Tell me where all past years are..." - John Donne.
I loved the course, but I would only recommend it to people with a strong background in history already.
Take this course, if for no other reason than because Jill Lepore can teach you an incredible amount about writing in general and history writing specifically. You will become a better writer, you will learn to view the Revolution in an entirely new light, and you will have some very rewarding interactions with peers and instructors. Highly, highly recommended if you're at all into American history.
