Professor Gordon is an excellent professor with great passion about and insight into the subject matter. Don't be afraid of the difficulty of the subject matter if you have even a little experience reading social theory, the instructors make it accessible. There was a dearth of women in the course, which may speak to the male-dominated environment surrounding social thought at Harvard. I would encourage more women to take the course. There were also a lot of grad students in the course, which could set a stuffier tone for some. There are certainly easier social thought classes, like the Existentialism one, but this is much more engaging in my experience, more difficult in a rewarding way. This class has the highest concentration of hipster glasses at Harvard. I liked it.
This class is a fun and engaging way of tackling difficult and worthwhile texts.
Do all your readings. Make it a priority class.
Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful.
go here if you need a frenchie fix
A great course.  A must-have-read reading list and amazing lectures from Professor Gordon.  Really a quite phenomenal way to learn about these brilliant thinkers.
rough at times, but good all round
If you look at the reading list and don't salivate you are not doing it right.
Take German Social Thought and French Social Thought! What Social Studies 10 should be.
This is a wonderful class if you have any interest in social theory, philosophy or simply in French intellectual history. The reading list is great, but be prepared to read a lot. The essays are fairly straightforward and the amount of work they require is fairly reasonable. Foucault is the best!
It is important to take an intellectual history course with Prof. Gordon.
Absolutely fantastic class. Peter Gordon is one of the very best lecturers I've ever heard--period.
If, skimming through the syllabus, you see titles which interest you  "I've always wanted to read that!"  then I definitely recommend this course.  Professor Gordon provides a very effective rundown of these thinkers, and relates them well to each other as members of a shared intellectual tradition.
This is an outstanding course. Professor Gordon is a fantastic lecturer; I would recommend taking one of his courses at some point if you have any interest in social theory or intellectual history. If you're not engaged with those fields, be careful...the standards for work in the course are quite high.
Professor Gordon is one of the best lecturers at Harvard. If you are hoping to get a stronger grasp on this important material, take this course! You will learn an enormous amount just by attending lecture.
Honestly, just take it. It's going to be a challenge, but one of the most rewarding classes I've taken during my time here. Professor Gordon is one of those professors you need to study under during your time here. He's incredibly brilliant and ridiculously personable (a rare combination at Harvard, to be sure).
French social thought isn't that difficult - if you take this class.
While this course may seem inaccessible at first, the ease with which you will be able to manipulate the material and ideas presented in it afterward is truly a testament to its effectiveness.
Difficult class but ultimately worthwhile and such a valuable array of thinkers to have read.
Professor Gordon is funny and a greta lecturer. He provides a very good way to look at and think about very complex themes within twentieth century French though. This is the sort of class that everyone should take at least once at Harvard.
Wonderful class. I took it as an elective out of interest in French history and social theory, and it was one of the best elective choices I've made here. Professor Gordon is a joy to listen to. His lectures are fascinating and make very complex texts and ideas accessible, even if you have no or very little background in the topic. His lectures are so comprehensive that the readings are not always necessary, although you will want to do them.
The class is amazing. As long as you actively engage with the readings, it's a very straightforward and reasonable class that will clarify a lot of really important thinkers.
Take this class if you are genuinely interested in encountering a full range of continental philosophy.
Make sure you have time to do the reading in a diligent and detailed way and you will get more out of the course.
You need to take this class. Don't take it just because Peter Gordon is kind, intelligent, eloquent, funny, and of a rare humanity. Don't take it just because your classmates will be some of the most brilliant, idealistic, socially conscious and passionate thinkers at Harvard (undergrads and grad students). Don't take it just because you want to learn how society functions, and because these are some of the greatest modern thinkers who can tell you their version of the answer. Take it because you want to learn how to live better, and you want to help others do that too. I don't feel like I am the same person after taking this course. It has made me recognize so many things about social existence that had been utterly invisible to me. Even though I didn't finish all the readings, I am grateful that they challenged me, and that my classmates were really engaged in the material. This is a special class.
This course radically changed my understanding of everything we read. I loved every moment of it. Professor Gordon is among the best lecturers I have ever encountered. The material was fascinating. For much of my education, I felt that there was always something up above, something bigger and more difficult saved for later; this course saved nothing for next time. This was it.
A necessary class (especially in conjunction with German Social Thought from Nietzsche to Habermas) for any students working in fields that draw upon the work of so-called Continental theory from anthropology to literature to political theory. Professor Gordon's engaging and lucid (perhaps too lucid) lectures are this class' great strengths, and this course's treatment of the texts, while still substantially a survey of nearly a century's worth of French social thought, is both sufficiently broad and sufficiently nuanced to provide insights for first time and returning readers.
Ah, Foucault. You're planning on taking this class for Foucault, perhaps? Well, do so. But please, do not only read Foucault. Do not only go to the Foucault lectures. There is so much more to this course than that sexy man. All the lectures are exceptional, really. Professor Gordon has just the right mix of professorial suaveness, academic earnestness, humor, and, of course, genuine depth and breadth of relevant knowledge. Each lecture opens with music, but, really, for those who appreciate thoughtful reconstructions, sincere critical engagement, and appropriate pepperings of historical context, the entire ninety minutes will be a serenade. Brandon, our TF, tasked with the mammoth challenge of facilitating discussion of a vast amount of difficult text (and reading all of our papers) did a commendable job. Though I think some thinkers (Beauvoir and Fanon come to mind) are not given their fair time in the spotlight, the course on the whole does a good job of trekking with its students across vast expanses of nuanced and varied intellectual landscape. A more direct engagement with the parallel and preceding German tradition would be ideal, but perhaps is practically too much to ask given the spatiotemporal constraints most college students and professors face.
Be prepared to do the readings and have to think the whole time, at least if you want to get anything from it.
If you have even the slightest interest in ideas, philosophical meanings, or some big questions that transcend our mundane superficialities, transcend interdisciplinary boundaries, you should take this course, or any of Professor Gordon's courses. He is the "Matres  penser" of intellectual history.
Gordon is awesome: an incredible lecturer and extremely smart. The class has a fantastic reading list with a lot of breadth but maintaining an awesome level of depth into each subject area. Put those two things together and you've got the formula for an awesome class. But it's going to be a fair bit of work; the reading volume is very high, and you really do have to do it. But it's fascinating stuff. Totally worthwhile. Also compliments Hist 1323 really well for a full year overview.
This class is interesting, though it's not as great as German Social Thought.
This class is a rigorous introduction to the biggest names in French philosophy--it serves as an effective introduction to this area of study for those who might want to incorporate social theory into concentration work, etc.
Peter Gordon is an amazing lecturer, and the material is excellent. However, be aware that it isn't a holistic survey of French Social thought; rather, it creates a narrative around a few key authors. So, you end up reading A LOT of Durkheim, Sartre, and Foucault and entirely skipping over others (Batille, for instance). Also the subject matter tends to attract pretentious people (above and beyond the normal harvard pretentiousness), so be ready for that in section.
Professor Gordon is an incredible professor who takes important but difficult material and renders it approachable. You would not regret taking the case.
Don't miss this class. I took it as an elective. It's largely populated with humanities people, but even as a science student or someone who has never engaged in theory -- but who is intimately interested -- I'd encourage you to take advantage of a rare learning opportunity in the Harvard context. Better than almost any other theory class I have delved into. Professor Gordon is a very engaging, clear, thoughtful, involved lecturer, who has keen background both in history and in philosophy and handles the intersection very well. Some works may fascinate you more than others -- take a look at the reading material ahead of time. Be prepared to engage critically and closely to get the most out of it, but it tends to be a great cohort of students. Professor Gordon also makes himself available in office hours and is very personable -- wonderful to get to know regardless. You should welcome the opportunity to engage in this material with his guidance.
An excellent way to approach some of the most difficult but iconic texts of the diverse modern French tradition of social theory. An essential part of a 21st century liberal arts education. Peter Gordon's lecture style is straightforward and unassuming, making very tough texts accessible.
I would recommend this course but the readings are very dense. Either be willing to commit a lot of time to this course or take it Pass/Fail and enjoy the interesting lectures.
If you are interested in philosophy/social thought, you must take a class with Peter Gordon before you graduate. He is brilliant, engaging, and surprisingly prompt/friendly when answering emails. I learned far more about Durkheim and Foucault from this class than I did in Social Studies 10b. This class is seriously what 10b should be. I can't recommend this class enough.
The class is about life and is, itself, filled with just that.
Wonderful course! Take it without second doubts.
Extremely clear lectures where Prof. Gordon breaks down very hard concepts into digestible information, music at the beginning of every class making it even more pleasurable to come to lecture every time, great texts, Prof. Gordon, Prof. Gordon, Prof. Gordon. I would feel so sad every time I missed a lecture. Prof. Gordon brought us chocolates sometimes! Loved every single moment of it. For students without a background in this kind of stuff, I would be a little cautious, as due to the nature of the course, most of your classmates will be fairly comfortable with the same. It's still possible to do well (it will just take over your life), but they're such important concepts, that it's worth it. Now I see Foucault everywhere in my life...
This course challenges mindsets at their core. No thought on diversity, inclusion, dynamics of power, patterns of control, humanism can be fully formed without these concepts ready in mind
French Social Thought from Hegel to Heidegger provides a survey of major themes and debates in modern French social theory over the span of a century, from Durkheim's neo-Kantian theory of the social symbolic to the FoucaultHabermas debate. This course provides an excellent introduction to the arguments and history of some very intimidating (but essential) texts at the heart of contemporary approaches in the humanities, and can be enthusiastically recommended to theoretically-inclined students in all departments. While the course is designed to not require prior knowledge of French social theory, prospective students should be aware that basic familiarity with some of the arguments made by Kant, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, Husserl, and Heidegger will illuminate the historical analysis made in German Social Thought from Durkheim to Foucault. As such, students from Professor Gordon's fall semester class on German Social Thought from Nietzsche to Habermas will particularly enjoy the course (though others should not be dissuaded from taking it). Students who arrive at lecture early will also receive an introduction to French music from Camille Saint-Sans to Plastic Bertrand.
The lectures are fantastic, and there is a lot of material. It certainly feels, however, that we only achieved a superficial understanding of the texts, given how little time spent on them. Interesting trajectory overall though.
In conjunction with German Social Thought, this is a great alternative to Social Studies 10b. You will read many of the same thinkers covered in SS 10b, but the historical development of these thinkers are much more fully contextualized in this class. Readings are tough at times, but rewarding.
I highly recommend this course. Professor Gordons lectures are extremely well-designed and delivered. The readings are very heavy but also very engaging.
Professor Gordon's lectures are without compare. Take this class.
If you want to learn about these ideas and these thinkers definitely take the course but know that it is theoretical and abstract and challenging at times.
If you are looking for an in-depth engagement with the arguments of the texts covered in this class, you're not likely to find it here. The lectures and handouts are excellent for providing historical/biographical details, as well as broad overview of each text. But the wide scope of of information was to the detriment of philosophical analysisand in a course that takes on as much as this one, it seems hard to have it both ways.
Once you get passed the pretentious students in section, the course is great. You just have to learn how to talk like they do. Section discussion in this course is different from other courses-you can do all (most of) the reading for that week and still have no idea what's going on. If you stick with it, though, it's rewarding in the end because you realize you've thought about a lot of important philosophical questions and learned a ton about what intellectuals were thinking in the 20th century.
If you wanna know French philosophy from 1850-1980, take this class.
This is an excellent course that will give a rigorous introduction to twentieth century philosophy, French history, and intellectual history, though with somewhat less of an overarching theme and driving focus as German Social Thought. The readings are powerful, carefully selected, and crucially important. Although listed in History, the course might be more similar to some courses in Philosophy than to other courses in the Harvard History Department.Last but not least, the course is taught by a brilliant, funny, and musical professor, whose words grace the lecture room with that special, thrilling 'unforced force of the better argument' that Gordon always seems magically able to express... If you're interested in the major ideas about society of the past century, then try to take this course.
This is one of the best courses I have ever taken. Even though I had little background in European history or philosophy, Professor Gordon was able to explain even the most complex ideas in concise terms. Professor Gordon is an incredible and engaging lecturer, and lectures are always a must-go. (The reading load is manageable, but the ideas are hard to sift through, so be prepared to be a bit frazzled. The lectures go a very long way in clearing up any confusion you have.) I really cannot recommend this course enough.
A great overview of French social thought, including some astute in-depth analyses. Quite much to read, and difficult texts; but this class will make you feel enthusiastic about very challenging material.
This was a thoroughly engaging class with wonderfully insightful subject matter. If you enjoy philosophy, or are curious about it, I am quite certain you will enjoy this class.
This is a wonderful introduction to French intellectual history, and to theory more broadly. Peter Gordon is an excellent lecturer-- rigorous but charismatic. His enthusiasm is contagious. I found this course extremely useful as a historian (I think any humanities concentrator would feel similarly), and only wish I had taken it sooner. My only critique is that I would have enjoyed more participatory lectures, as we typically only had time for a few questions at the end of class.
Professor Gordon has this course down to a science. It is a phenomenal introduction to many of the greatest French thinkers in the past century, and it forces students to hold up several conflicting texts to resolve which theories best reflect modern society. Durkheim is a stud, and I highly encourage you to read his full Elementary Forms of Religious Life (and to take the TF's comments on Durkheim with a grain of salt. Any notion of Durkheim as Eurocentric and out of touch with the object of his studies is wholly off base. But find out for yourself!) As for Foucault, oh that sexy man! If you take this course for Foucault, you're set. It is a great close to the semester. In all, French Social Thought is awesome, the lectures are off-the-charts (likely the best I've ever witnessed), and although the TFs need some work, they are very enthusiastic about the material.
great survey course of french continental social theory
This is a really great class if you're at all interested in reading authors like Foucault, Derrida, and others whose names get tossed around a lot by "intellectuals" these days, and finding out what they actually had to say. The one drawback is that section is not very well integrated into the class overall, but for me, the lectures made it worth it.
This course is fantastic and life-changing. Professor Gordon is honestly the best lecturer I've ever met. Take it - you won't regret it.
Take it!
Take this class--it will change the way you see the world. Particularly for humanities students, it's so important to be familiar with these theorists. Not to mention that Foucault, Derrida, Sartre and the like actually had really interesting ideas--something that may not be entirely clear when they are exclusively name dropped by pretentious philosophy concentrators. Prof. Gordon's lectures bring together the best of their ideas into complex but comprehensible summaries that will leave you pensive for the rest of the day.
This is a beautiful course, charting ideas and arguments as they unfold and take shape over the course of a long and difficult century. The readings are often difficult, but they are very rewarding, and I would recommend this course to anyone who is even remotely interested in the subject. Prof. Gordon's lectures are very, very good. Beyond the readings, which can be quite time-consuming, there is not much work in the coursethree long papers, and a few response papers. I had no prior background in anything related to the class, and so I don't think that there's any background necessary to enjoy and do well in the class, and to get a lot out of it.
One of the classes I have most enjoyed at Harvard. If you are interested in continental philosophy, look no further: you HAVE to take this and HIST 1300 German Social Though. In no other class will you read the likes of Sartre, Derrida, Lacan, Althusser. Lectures are fantastic and so too are sections -- this class attracts great students and discussions in section were riveting! Gordon is fantastic and brilliant -- definitely make an effort to get to know him through office hours.
This course genuinely changed the way I think about the world and I have to try to not be obnoxious by bringing it up with my friends constantly
Fantastic course - Gordon is an incredible lecturer and you learn a ton about really important figures. Not easy, but absolutely worth it.
