This class is fantastic! Kishlansky's lectures are packed with information, jokes, and trivia. You will learn so much about Britain, Protestantism, and the foundations of democracy through amazing stories and discussions! You will not regret taking this course.
This is a great class! Kishlansky is a great teacher and you learn a lot. The workload is very manageable and the tests are very fair.
The lectures are great, Professor Kishlansky is very engaging.  However, the exams require a lot of memorization (I.D.'s) and the supplementary readings for section can sometimes be long and tedious.
The readings are really interesting, but what really drives this course is the fantastic lecturing by Professor Kishlansky. The midterm is time-tight, so watch your time; the final is just a larger midterm.
This class was phenomenal and unique, as far as I have experienced, among the courses offered. Professor Kishlansky is so passionate and truly an expert on this subject. His lectures are fantastic and I am very thankful that I had the opportunity to learn from him. It requires a fair amount of work, but once you figure out how to balance it, it should not be too stressful. It's been one of the best classes I've taken here!
I do "highly" recommend this course, BUT for people that love history and/or those with a fascination in the Early Modern Period/English History/Stuart Period. The course is a lot about politics - I love politics so it was especially fascinating -- for those looking for economics or social history, you probably won't find that here.
Professor Kishlansky is a master of prose. His ability to tell history as the engaging narrative it can and should be is exceptional in my experience of teaching at Harvard. Take this class and learn the history and how to tell a good story.
Attend all lectures and take copious notes
This course is incredibly well organized. The lectures compliment the readings, which in turn, compliment the section discussions. The course is by no means easy, but it is certainly doable. The material is fascinating, the readings are thoughtfully chosen, and the professor is a phenomenal lecturer. It is worth taking.
A very interesting class with an intelligent and colorful professor. Tends to focus more on the early Stuarts than on the revolutions aspect, but that's really just a matter of taste.
Though I found the course very interesting and enjoyable, the material can become fairly dense, so only those with a deeply vested interest in British or Early Modern European history should enroll in the course.
This class will make you have a deeper appreciation for British history. While elements of it can be dry, the ideas it raises are relevant and applicable even today.
Let's put it this way-- I often found section to be frustrating and pointless. I learned nothing from it.and I still enjoyed the course overall. Kishlansky is a god, or maybe a king, or the Leviathan, or whatever. Before him, you are but a mortal. Take his class. You do not deserve it, but it is there, and it is calling to you.
Kishlansky's lectures are great.  Julie is a good TF who got a lot better with experience, and should continue to improve.  Don't feel afraid to ask the professor questions even though he prohibits questions during lecture.  He is open to questions both immediately before and after lecture and has amazing knowledge of the period.
A very specific interest in the politics of the Stuart dynasty is necessary to appreciate this class.
A great way to fulfill the pre-Modern history requirement, or as an intro to 17th century English/European history. Kishlansky is a great lecturer, but is a bit removed from the actual teaching of the course.
You better be sure you like British history, and hopefully already know at least a little bit about the 17th century, before taking this course. Kishlansky goes into a LOT of detail during lectures, and because you're essentially not allowed to participate (save your questions for section, sorry), you need to already have some interest in the English Civil War and Glorious Revolution if you're going to stay focused for the entire hour long lecture. Take copious notes - they're basically all you'll have to go off of for studying for the midterm and final. In terms of readings: Kishlansky's book is essentially the more concise, more interesting, more eloquent version of his lectures - it's literally the exact same information - and worth the read. The other secondary sources generally aren't necessary, so just make sure you know the primary sources for section. Julie is an absolute dear - a really valuable TF, she's entirely on your side, and while she loves Kishlansky for his genius, understands many of his eccentricities. She is a valuable resource! Basically, only take this course if you're a History or Hist and Lit major - anyone else won't be able to handle the length and depth of lectures, the detailed readings and engaging sections - sorry, it's true. Don't just take this class as an elective. But for anyone looking long and hard for the Early Modern Europe period classes offered (not many at Harvard), this one is worth it.
If you are a history buff, take this course. If you want to be challenged, take this course. If you want a section leader and a professor who love the subject and care about you, take this course. The reading can be long, but not long enough to detract from the spectacular information and its brilliant presentation. Kishlansky is thoughtfully hysterical and wonderfully articulate. Julie is warm, present and caring. She is a great grader and takes her time providing immensely helpful feedback. Kishlansky and Julie make a magnificent, somewhat comical, duo.
This class is a great introduction to the politics and revolutions of 17th century Britain. For anyone interested in American constitutional history, this class is a must because it gives the background of some of the great political thinkers whose ideas contributed to the founding of the USA.
Probably my favorite class at Harvard. I really enjoyed it
This was my first ever history class. It will be difficult to change over to a new writing style but Julie is more than willing to help you really understand what you're doing. Classes fly by and MK is the right amount of funny and knowledgeable on the topic. I ended up ambivalent toward the Stuarts but the love-hate was to be expected with how crazy the Brits were back then. Good readings, among others some diaries of men who almost shot themselves in the eye while cleaning their guns. So many good things, bit still history so drink a cup of coffee before class and stay awake.
This is an excellent and engaging course that I would recommend to anyone with an interest in European History.
Gives a definitive account on the religious/political turmoil in England in the 17th century.
The first few weeks are challenging if you don't know this era of history, but once you get into it, both the period and the professor are compelling.
This class is an awesome history class. The readings and assignments are not bad- you really see how they fit in with the material being taught in lecture and in section, and because there isn't too much work you know that the work you are doing really matters. Professor Kishlansky is hilarious, and Julie is really enthusiastic, helpful, and kind too.
This is a good class on the political history of 17th century England.  If you're knew to this time period and region, there will be a lot of information to absorb and make sense of.  Professor Kishlansky is a wealth of information, but sometimes his lectures are boring.  Julie is a fun and dynamic TF and is very willing and available to help with assignments.
You will learn a lot about the 17th century in this class, and the TF is wonderful; she is open, personable, and helpful in grading and answering questions. But the content can get confusing at times (which may have more to do with the content rather than course structure, but still). But if you do what is asked (readings, study for exams, etc.) you will succeed.
This class is a great way to learn about 17th-century Britain. It's a joy being able to learn directly from one of the foremost scholars in the field. The workload is very fair, and the lectures are very entertaining.
I took this class as my premodern history requirement and enjoyed it after taking Maya Jasanoff's British Empire class.  Kishlansky is an engaging lecturer, but if you missed a lecture it was hard to catch up because the powerpoint slides don't match up with the lectures.  I found the reading level manageable, especially for a history course, and the two papers were not too difficult.
This is a really great class. Professor Kishlansky is very knowledgeable about the topic and his lectures are really interesting (even the parts about 17th century taxation seem interesting). It isn't easy but the workload is definitely manageable and the readings are very well chosen. If you're interested in history at all, take this class!
Listening to Kishlansky's lectures is just plain fun. Amazing storyteller. I knew very little about British history so the class was engaging, finding out what exactly happened. (Spoiler: Lots of people died.)
Professor Kishlansky is easily one of the best lecturers in the Harvard History Department.  I would honestly attend a lecture where he just talked about whatever was on his mind, but alas, Harvard would never allow it.  That being said, since he knows so much about seventeenth century English history, his lectures are always fascinating, and he brings a passion for the material which brings it to life.  Easily one of my favorite history courses at Harvard.
This is a difficult and demanding course. To do well you need to have a genuine interest in the material and be willing to consistently put in work throughout the semester.
It was a great class, even as an elective. You learn about a period of history that is extremely relevant and at times, especially under professor Kishlansky's comments, hilarious. Readings are amazing, and rarely cause you any troubles. Papers, midterms and finals are fair and Ruth is an amazing TF. By far the best TF I have here at Harvard. If you are interested in British history, or European history and political theory in general, take this class. It will teach about Hobbes and Locke in context, as well as the very beginnings Britain came to be such a powerful entity. The struggles it went through. I only wish the course could have continued beyond the Glorious Revolution and up until the Act of Union in 1707.
This was an AWESOME class. I went in not knowing anything about British history and thinking that I would always and forever only like American history.  Professor Kishlansky is an awesome lecturer - his lectures are engaging and although pretty fast-paced never boring. [sidednote: be aware this is a lecture class - you don't have the chance to ask questions in lecture really, but there is section for that.] The readings were pretty substantial but also very interesting so I didn't feel bored at all. The fact that it is only one century covered lets you go pretty in depth into the events, and it is such a crazy century in British history that every decade is important. Definitely take this class!!!
the material is good and Kishlansky's book is fantastic---but read the book, don't take the class
A good course overall. Midterms and Finals were quite reasonable. Kishlansky's lectures are performances. He's very old-school, as he does not take questions, doesn't work off a power point etc.
Professor Kishlansky is an interesting lecturer and an expert in his field. I found the course material fascinating and was ok with just trying to get good notes during lecture. Section provided a better opportunity for discussion and focused on reviewing the readings. There were 2 papers, a midterm, and a final. Our TF, Ruth, made herself accessible and her feedback helped me make progress from the first essay to the second.
After taking this course as a freshman, I would recommend it to anyone interested in getting an introduction to the history department. Professor Kishlansky is beyond knowledgable about the subject, and his enthusiasm rubbed off on me. A great course!
