HIST 1008 was a phenomenal overview of the Zionist project and Israel as a state. One of the chief strengths of the course lies in Professor Penslar, a brilliant scholar who is as personable and glib as he is knowledgeable. Our 90-minute lectures never dragged on, particularly because the final 30 minutes were usually dedicated to audiovisual sources (mostly video). And, besides making himself available to his students, Professor Penslar did a nice job with the course assignments: we had a small document analysis, a midterm exam, a final paper (either analytical or research-based), and a final exam (this could be shortened if you chose to do a research paper). The reading load was on the heavy side, but it was all quite interesting, and certainly relevant. Do be aware that Professor Penslar attempts to be as neutral and objective as possible in the classroom, but that's not the case 100% of the time. Regardless, though, I would definitely recommend HIST 1008 for anyone with even a remote interest in studying Israel and how its past affects the present in the Middle East.
Professor Penslar is a great lecturer and does a really good job integrating interesting and engaging material. He addresses unique themes about Israeli history and the course presents a really complete, multifaceted, and objective view of the country. If you have any interest in Israeli history, definitely take this class!
This was a great class. It was not too difficult or controversial, as many classes on this subject are. We learned a lot about Zionism and israeli politics and society. The lectures were extremely interesting. Would definitely recommend!
This is a fantastic, rich, thought-provoking class. The readings are engaging, the lectures are stimulating and it is thoroughly academic without ever feeling dusty or dry.
I really enjoyed the readings for this course. However, I wasn't a huge fan of the sections, and some of the lectures were a little disconnected from the readings.
It was a very extensive survey of Israeli history that provided a full picture of how Israel went from being an idea to being a state. I particularly enjoyed the last few weeks of the course, when we delved deeper into contemporary Israeli society, popular culture, and politics. Perhaps a highlight of the course for me was that it highlighted the diversity of groups and ideas that exists in Israel: the Tel Aviv secular leftist is indeed very different to the religious settler in the West Bank. I also really liked how Professor Penslar chose readings that also explored the Mizrahi experience in Israel: the group that Ella Shohat calls "Israel's Jewish victims". It would be nice to have more readings from the Palestinian side (the absence of Edward Said from the reading list is just a little bit outrageous), but I do understand what Professor Penslar means when he says that this is a class about Israel, and not one about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I would particularly recommend this class to anyone who, like me, comes from a background where Israel is presented a single monolithic entity, rather than as a complex country where extremely different views continue to fight each other every day.
Amazing history class. you gotta take it.
the class is super interesting and Professor penslar is an amazing lecturer with with unparalleled experiences in the field. the class was definitely geared towards people who have a specific background/interest in the field rather than more of a survey history course. the section were often disconnected to what was going on in lecture, and there are a lot of readings--sometimes it was unclear which readings were most important
Great material - hopefully organized/taught more effectively
Professor Penslar is fantastic. His lectures are engaging (he makes jokes!) and he makes himself available to students.
