This is a great class for anyone who wants to take their research on health and medicine in Africa to a new level. However, if you aren't dedicated to the subject matter, the reading load may seem heavy and perhaps even a bit esoteric, and discussion could drag for you. (It is a two-hour class.)
I had never studied medicine or disease before, and I really enjoyed all the topic covered and the scope of the readings and semester. Professor Akyeampong is a great professor, and Funke was always available and incredibly helpful and approachable.
This course provides an invaluable opportunity to get a deeper appreciation for the impact of mankind on disease and ecology as well as to learn briefly about a number of different countries on the African continent. It will allow you to add multiple different lens to your toolbox for analyzing history and the present that is extremely desirable.
The learning curve in the class is quite satisfying so it's fine if you don't have any background in history but are interested in the subject matter.
One of the best classes I've ever taken.
History 87a gives students a great frame to view some of the more significant debates in public health.  It contains a deep appreciation for cultural expression and the power-knowledge potential of medicine and the ability to diagnose pathologies.  This is helpful in framing the colonial response to the disease, and the past provides a useful comparison to the present.
50% of the grade is the final paper..that's a lot to gamble
This is a very focused course that a student who is interested in African medicine and health should definitely consider taking. A historical perspective of health, African culture and civilization, and environment is informative for someone interested in more modern global health problems.
good way of getting a closer look at the history of global health in Africa
For students who have interest in Africa, this course provides a new framework for thinking about health and healing and disease.
