Take this course!! Professor Tworek is amazing!
The discussions were invigorating. The readings were easy to skim, and even if you didn't do all the readings very closely for the week, you could still participate in discussion. The final paper was so fun to write: the length was relatively short in comparison to other social science classes, and the support given by Heidi and Charles is invaluable. 100% recommend this class to any History student for their seminar requirement.
This class has been one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. It required a lot of work, but was very rewarding. Discussion was always engaging, and it was the fastest-passing 2 hour class I have experienced! I thought the course was structured extremely well. The syllabus was more thematic than based off of individual organizations, but we learned about many individual organizations through the students' papers. Heidi and Charles were great, both in creating a comfortable and fun learning environment, and also in helping us through the writing process. If you're considering this class, I highly recommend it!
This was one of the better seminars I have had at Harvard.   The subject matter was very interesting, and class discussions were always engaging.  Heidi is a great seminar leader and really takes time to get to know her students.  The final paper may seem daunting, but it is structured so that each week's blog assignment contributes to the final product, and constructive feedback is provided throughout the process.
This class provides a wide-ranging but not very involved survey of issues surrounding international organizations. Discussions in class were not very engaging and did not help me learn. The final paper was a good assignment, and Heidi and Charles helped me develop an interesting project, but my paper was graded far too leniently. This course is interesting, but superficial and not rigorous enough.
This seminar is perfect for prospective history concentrators who would like to learn more about the department's expectations for written work, or for any student passionate about conducting research on a topic of their choosing. Be aware, however, that the independent research essay is the central component of this class, so you may not learn as much about international institutions as you would like, and the reading is heavy (some weeks you only have to tackle an academic article or three, but other weeks you will have to read entire books) but these readings not as fluidly integrated into course discussions as would be ideal. Still, you will definitely learn all the skills you need to write an epic research paper! 

Professor Tworek is a great seminar discussion leader with a positive attitude and genuine commitment to her students whose knowledge of international institutions is peerless, and Charles, this class's exclusive writing fellow and TF, offers excellent feedback on your written work and is a very accessible.
This course prepared me very well for historical research and gave me the opportunity to do a rigorous study of an important issue within the umbrella of my Social Studies focus field. However, the focus of the course is very much the term paper, to the detriment of all other subject matter of the course.
This is a very interesting course, but it can at times seem unfocused, and loses out on some of the nuances of the subject through its broad focus. The discussions are also very moderated, which can hamper the free flow of dialogue at times. Overall though, it is a good course that allows you to pursue your own research in an interesting field.
