Read ahead in the syllabus... a lot of the stuff listed later in the course is helpful to know when you START teaching for the first time.
Use it as a real opportunity to be a better teacher. Think about what kind of teacher you want.
It's like 3910, it's inevitable people will dislike it, but it is nice to see the cohort and it's a useful thing overall.
Yes, we grad students tend to grumble about having to take the G-3 teaching seminar.  Yes, we're busy.  And yes, many of the individual section meetings won't rock your world.  On the other hand, the sum of the course (readings, meetings, and your own thoughts provoked by the above) is really very helpful for figuring out what teaching is all about, honing your own approaches, learning/trying out new tactics, and hearing about how it all fits into your professional role as an academic teacher.  Despite all the grumbles mentioned above, I'm glad I took the course!
As almost all of the guest speakers will tell you, courses like this are a rarity, and we should consider ourselves lucky that we're able to take part in this one. It's a remarkably helpful course for first-year TFs--we were able to learn about different strategies for teaching, and then get fair evaluations on how well we were putting them into practice.
G-4s and higher should come to the Spring sessions -- some very helpful tips that get bandied about!
This is a terrible class that made me realize the Ponzi-scheme that is graduate school. Why are we accepting so many students in our programs if we can't secure jobs for them?
This course is an excellent resource for History graduate students, but you must take from it what is most important to you. Use it to think about how to organize your professional life and seek advice from faculty and graduate students you will meet through the course.
The success of this course is contingent upon the faculty running it.
It's required, joke's on you!
It's a great resource for obtaining candid advice about teaching, grad school, and the tenture track process. Particularly if your advisors do not concern themselves with the career aspect of advising.
For a departmental requirement, it's got tons more practical merit than 3900. Show up and pay attention in the first three or four weeks; put honest work into the grading exercises and section-taping. Try not to get too cynical about the Bok Center 'pedagogy creep' that seeps into the course and the commodification of learning through a heavy emphasis on Q scores.
Use it as an opportunity to ask questions and brainstorm based on actual experiences you're having teaching.
It's mostly tedious but it's not bad to have a place to talk about teaching, and if you like your cohort then it's a chance to see them periodically.
Though it seems like it is "just another" drain on our time, the safe space is really important for peer support and rejuvenating.
The class is very useful for someone who is teaching sections or working as a tutor for the first time. It is important to make a video recording of your section(s) as soon as possible and get an early feedback from course instructors. The section on grading papers is especially interesting. Do not miss it!
It's a prerequisite now, but I'd support the course even if it wasn't.
This course offers a very good opportunity to know about what experienced professors and TFs have been through in their teaching history, and a nice chance to share your own puzzles with others who have the same puzzles with you.
This course is an absolute waste of time.
History graduate students should be thankful to have an organized forum to develop their teaching skills. Although the course was sometimes a bit open and more of an opportunity to ask questions and discuss, there were also plenty of important resources about teaching that were made available and that first-time teachers should take full advantage of.
Well, it is a required course, and I am guessing it varies significantly from year to year, but it did not always feel terribly worth the time.
This is a good opportunity to take a step back and think systematically about that which is probably the most important thing we do as academics in the humanities - teach. Professor Kloppenberg and Abby were truly excellent instructors, fittingly intentional about the way they conducted this colloquium.
This class is extremely helpful for first-time TFs.  Of course, it also takes up additional time, which can be difficult for first-time TFs, but the class is worth it.
Since it is required by the department, my recommendation isn't really all that important. However, I DO think that all Harvard graduate programs should offer such a course - if nothing else, it shows the department's commitment to undergraduate education.
