Have fun.  This class is a delight to be in.
A great way to understand the rationality behind the Tea Party! They are but an extension to a rich tradition of populism our country has had since its infancy.
This class is really rewarding if you have the time to devote to it. It forces you to develop your own stance on the material as opposed to simply providing facts and arguments that you can regurgitate on a test. However, this is a demanding task and it's very easy to fall behind quickly.
It really helped me understand the "dissent" that seems to appear in political ideologies of the 20th century, that isn't necessarily dissent.
Really engaging course with charismatic professor. Reading assignments are both informative and enjoyable.
it sneaks up on you in a lot of ways, Professor is fantastic, but its really stressful
Start writing the final paper early.
Brett is awesome. Even if you can't take this course, take whatever else he is teaching because I guarantee that you will enjoy it. By far one of my favorite classes here
A very interesting history course. Professor Flehinger gives awesome lectures. The downfall is the immense amount of reading that really cannot be skipped as it is the focus of section.
Everything was great. I think it's so rare to have a course where both the professor and TF care deeply about the students and I really appreciated that Brett and Summer did care. More practically, the lectures were engaging and I felt the sections fostered interesting discussions.
One of my favorite courses I've taken at Harvard so far. If you engage with the material and Professor Flehinger/Summer, you will not only learn an incredible amount but have a fantastic experience.
If you take a history class at Harvard, do yourself a favor and take one of Flehinger's. I prefer this one more since I was not totally familiar with what populism was in American history.
This is a great course, in which you will learn a lot. Lectures are generally interesting and Prof. Flehinger is one of the most personable, caring professors you will have here.
Its amazing and not very stressful if you put your time into it. You will learn a lot.
This is a great class, but not an easy class. There is a significant amount of work at the end with the paper and the final. It is definitely worth it though. Brett is an incredible lecturer and a nice guy.
What a course. This is the kind of class that every Harvard student should take. Professor Flehinger--or, as he prefers his students call him, Brett--is perhaps the most engaging Harvard professor that  I have ever met. He regularly meets with students and actively takes an interest in getting to know them as individuals. The topic is fascinating and the materials are really engaging. Take this course!! You really should! I was a freshman, and, while I found the course to be challenging at times, it was definitely doable. The TF our year--Summer Shafer--was really great, too!!
Brett is the most wonderful faculty member I've come across, and Summer is without a doubt the hardest working TF at the College. The lectures are fascinating, and the course material is carefully selected and usually interesting reads. You won't regret taking this course and will probably end up looking at American history in a new light. On a coursework note, the meticulous preparation for a 12-15 page paper may seem tedious at times--especially for upperclassmen. But on a non-academic note, Brett and Summer genuinely care about the undergraduate experience and what you're taking away from this course and from college.
Lots of reading but the course covers a really important aspect of American history AND contemporary politics, so anyone who wants to have a political career should take this class. The research paper was not that helpful and was a pain but you can get by in the class by taking good notes in lecture, reading the most important books thoroughly (namely, Hofstadter, Postel, and Kazin) and skimming everything else (reviewing for the midterm and final). The class is interesting to think about, not dogmatic, and won't take up your semester, just some of it.
If you don't really mind never learning what populism is, you'll be fine.
theres' a lot of reading so be prepared for that but the subject matter and lectures are fascinating.
Wonderful class! The second half is a little disorganized, but generally excellent.
the teaching staff is #1, make sure you know what you're doing
If you have any interest in studying history, either as a concentration or an elective, take this class or any offered by Brett. He is a fantastic lecturer, and made the class so enjoyable. Him and Summer were so helpful, always approachable and ready to help with any problems. Brett's focus is really on undergrads, so you get a great experience in this class. In terms of populism in general is provides a fantastic, in-depth review of the transition and historiography of the subject; take this class just to watch Brett and Summer disagree with each other. In a broader historical sense, it provides a great inlet into American political history of the 19th/20th century.
This class is extremely rewarding if you engage with the material and keep up with lecture. The research paper is also a great opportunity to explore a topic you actually care about - take advantage! Brett is great, lectures are interesting and never a chore to attend. Just beware of missing class; you will miss material! The lecture slides alone do not give you all the information.
This class is absolutely phenomenal. Professor Flehinger and Summer are amazing. Lectures are incredibly interesting and sections are incredibly useful. The material is fascinating and enlightening. The readings, though heavy, are very interesting and useful. Though the class is formatted as a lecture, Professor Flehinger engages with students and really cares about the kids he teaches. I don't know what else to say, because I could go on for days about this course. Seriously, seriously take it. If you have any interest in American history, take this course! It very well may have made a history concentrator out of me.
Brett is absolutely amazing. If you don't take this class with him, you need to take another with him before you graduate. He pushes you intellectually and if you get to know him (go to his office hours) he can become like a mentor to you. I took this class as a freshman being afraid of the research paper. I'd say go for it if I was advising any underclassmen who were considering taking this course. It's also a great introduction to the history department if you're even considering concentrating in history. This is the type of class I came to Harvard to take--it pushes you intellectually, you work hard but it's rewarding and manageable. You also manage to build a great relationship with Brett if you take advantage of office hours.
This class is challenging, but in a good way. It is worth putting the effort in to make connections throughout the course and to form relationships with Summer and Brett. They are both interesting, smart people who you should talk to about history, harvard, or most other things.
This course is particularly great for people who haven't taken a history course before - Brett and Summer make the history and the methodology very accessible.
Take any course that Brett offers, or that Summer is TFing- a bonus if they're together again! Brett is seriously the best professor I've had after my four years here. Actively participate in the course, do the readings as they come, and I promise it'll be thoroughly rewarding.
Brett is a fantastic lecturer, and you will never be bored in class. He truly is fantastic - so unique in how he is able to make students feel comfortable and intelligent for asking questions. Summer seems stand-offish at first, but she will grow on you as a TF, and you'll realize that she actually cares a lot about the course and about improving it. Interesting material, flexible final paper topics. I took this course pass-fail, and even for pass-fail, I had to devote significant amounts of time to pass. Don't anticipate a light workload - there is heavy reading each week and both a final paper and a final exam.
This class is a great way to orient oneself in America politics.
a lot of reading!
Fantastic lectures but cross your fingers for a good TF. Mine was not good and really put a damper on the class. The material is really interesting, something that one wouldn't expect to hear about a course half-focused on 19th century American history.
it's the best class I've taken at Harvard
The topic seems a little random, but I promise you, you will be convinced of it's relevancy after taking this class. If you're looking for a quality US History course, this is it. Professor Flehinger analyzes the past 175 years through the perspective of the Populist movement, and gives a great history of past politics and how they've affected current politics. Good introduction to some current events as well. Professor was one of the best I've had in my years here.
Take it!  This is a very unique and interesting class that looks at American history through an innovative lens.
This course is hard work, but if you commit yourself to it (and have Brett as a section leader), it'll be the best course you take at Harvard.
Very interesting material! Brett (the prof) is extremely accessible, knows everyone in the class by name. I had a great section leader, but the other one apparently was not very good. Do the readings if you can, you will get much more out of the class. Lecture is pretty good, but not always super organized and doesn't really do a great job with introducing new themes in a clear way.
This was a very good course, especially for anyone interested in history. The subject matter was fairly narrow, but examined through many different ways. The difficulty in the course was a result of the subject matter rather than the workload.
It's a good class, but I wouldn't recommend it for people with a solid grounding in US history. It's fairly introductory...
Very engaging lectures and readings. Though I occasionally sensed a liberal bias (and I'm liberal myself), the course really was fantastic. Looking at a broad scope of American history through the specific lens of populism made the class unique.
Fantastic professor, and wonderful material, if you're interested at all in 19th/20th Century American History.
Though you might actually become more confused about what populism is, you will learn so much about its place in American history and politics. It was by far my favorite class this semester. Not too much work, but if you don't do the weekly readings you won't get a lot out of the course.
This is a great class that is fabulously taught.  The material is pretty interesting, especially the more recent material.  Brett is awesome, his lectures are engaging, he's really accessible and helpful, and as Res Dean of Lowell he understands what students' lives are like and how busy they can be.
Brett is a fantastic lecturer, Asher was a great TF, and the materials/lectures were remarkably engaging and interesting. One of the best history classes I've taken at Harvard.
brett is great! he is so helpful and makes lectures super interesting
It's a lot of fun.  If you're looking to take a history class just for the heck of it, try this one.
Take it regardless of who you are or what you like. This course really makes you a better student and thinker in general.
An interesting survey of 19th and 20th century American history through the lens of Populist rhetoric.A must take if you are a history concentrator or anyone interested in political history. Flehinger's lectures are great. workload is very manageable.
Terrific, engaging lecturer. Fascinating materials. Incredibly relevant to the present day. Definitely take this class
This course absolutely succeeded in that it made me start questioning traditional narratives of history and understanding that all history is interpretation. Brett is a fantastic professor and lecturer who truly understands and is able to connect with his students, and as I found myself thinking about populism in 21st century politics outside of class, I realized just how much this class has taught me. I would caution, however, that because this course relies so heavily on the student making sense of the curriculum, it may be wise to save this one for after you've taken a few other history courses here.
I cannot recommend this course strongly enough. Brett is an incredibly engaging lecturer and really makes the hour fly by. The material is fascinating. Asher was my TF, but it seems that both TFs were really rooting for their students and wanted them to do well. Definitely take this course.
Brett is a fantastic classroom presence and a great lecturer. Great class for history and literature students.
Prof. Flehinger is an engaging and insightful lecturer, and it's a joy to listen to his lectures. That should be reason enough to take the class.
This is a great history class. Brett is an amazing lecturer and so supportive. It isn't too hard, and very doable, just be sure to go to the lectures because that makes everyhting worth it.
This class covers the history of an extremely relevant aspect of American politics. Professor Flehinger's lectures are captivating and entertaining (he makes ample use of Prezis filled with YouTube clips, for example), and the readings are enjoyable as well.
This is a very interesting and generally enjoyable course that provides a decent understanding of populist thought and rhetoric.  Professor Flehinger is a very engaging lecturer and is very accessible outside of class.  My only complaint would be that the lectures and readings seemed a bit unfocused/disjointed at times, especially during the second half of the class (on the 20th century).
Take this class!
This class is fantastic, but be prepared to do a lot of reading every week.
This was such a great class. Brett is an incredibly charismatic lecturer, and you manage to learn about American history through the lens of populism. I think it's really important for people who live in a very "liberal" environment like ourselves to understand the undercurrent of populism in America, so that we can better understand people very much unlike ourselves.
Really interesting course that explains a lot more about contemporary American politics than you might expect. Brett is a fantastic lecturer and really cares about his students.
current material, founded in very old roots of americanism. really interesting lens through which to see politics today and the way we speak about politics today. also, take any chance to meet brett that you can, he's a harvard anomaly and we are all lucky he's here.
This course is really interesting and not too difficult but it is often confusing. Be prepared to approach this material in a different way than you would in other history courses.
Awesome, relevant, and fascinating course - Brett is great!!
Brett is an excellent professor.  The subject material and lectures are fascinating.  Make sure you get a good TF, or try to get into Brett's section.
Populism is an integral part of the American political landscape, and Prof. Flehinger does a great job of giving a unbiased, yet deeply understanding perspective on this movement as it changes through American history. This is a class you should not miss if you are interested in American politics.
This class is a fascinating look at the populist undercurrent in America from the nations founding up to present day political situations; materials are presented in an interesting and engaging way, and Brett is a fantastic lecturer, making every class fun to go to.
It's a great way to get into political history. Brett's lectures are engaging and he takes the time to genuinely get to know students. For me, the first half of the course was somewhat slow because it was often economic and we spent a lot of time on topics that are not inherently exciting. However, this definitely changes with the second half of the course.
Interesting material, but work-heavy in a way that leaves you doing a lot of assignments that present no clear value.
Brett and Summer are the dream team when it comes to Harvard educators.  It was a joy to work with them this semester, and I certainly want to take more history classes because of these experiences.
Great class - get ready to read a lot!
This is a great class! It is fantastic having both Summer and Prof. Flehinger, who play off of each other as they have very different opinions about the material. Prof. Flehinger's lectures are incredibly dynamic and this is a unique course in that it is actually a presentation of an argument about history, not just various dates and events that happened.
If you want to actually take something from this class, don't take this class if you don't know American history. Otherwise not a very difficult class.
this class is definitely worth taking! I now understand a completely different way of looking at American Politics. The professor is phenomenal, and the material is engaging. Take this class!
Brett is a great lecturer, Summer is a fun TF. Its an interesting, good class with a moderate  work load. Its solidly good, but not great.
This is a great course. Brett and Summer are both very enthusiastic about the material, and having taught it several times together, compliment each other's teaching styles well. They both have different perspectives on the material, which encourages students to look at the material in different ways, too. Brett and Summer are also very engaged and willing to meet with you whenever you need help and provide a lot of useful feedback on assignments; they are genuinely invested in your success. The material is also interesting, and you're guaranteed to look at the Populists and Tea Party (among other movements) in a new light.
This class is dope
2015 was a rough year for History 1433 because snow days had a really big impact on course organization. The basics are all there--course has a good thesis, reading, and professor. Just didn't come together perfectly this year due to the snow.
A difficult course with a lot of reading, a lot of test taking, and a lot of writing. Unfortunately, the unfocused and frustrating central theme -- the search for "populism" in the various political and social movements that together make up American social history -- did not render all of this work particularly rewarding. Take it if you like Flehinger, who is a good lecturer, and don't mind history courses that participate in a great deal of fuzzy thinking.
i.	This class is incredibly organized and well-taught. Brett and Summer are a fantastic team and genuinely care about their students learning. They encourage students and want to engage with students more than any other professor-TF team I have had at Harvard. They go out of their way to learn everyones names and answer every question. You have to make an initial effort and demonstrate your interest, and after that, you are set for the semester and beyond. They offer incredible help and advice both inside the classroom and outside, and the assignments and exams reflect this attitude that they want students to succeed. Everything is very fair. The material is engaging for any student interested in American history; dont be turned off because you arent interested specifically in populism. I came away from this class thinking differently, and I have grown so much intellectually and academically from the requirements of this course. Everything you would expect of a quintessential Harvard course before you get to Harvard!
Be prepared to do a lot of reading--interesting, engaging reading.
Prof. Flehinger has an entertaining style and during reading week its easy to think that it will be a super fun class but the class is poorly organized and the lectures become a little rambling.
This is not an easy history course, but if you're in to American history (or just social/cultural/political history in general) I would highly recommend this course. Professor Flehinger is a fantastic (if sometimes disorganized) lecturer, and Summer is a top notch TF.
The approach to the second half of the course can be frustrating. The redeeming part is section where new perspectives are encouraged.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard.  The content is fascinating and though somewhat familiar, presented in a framework I've never focused on before.  There is a fair amount of reading, but not too many assignments at all (midterm, research paper + draft assignments, and final), and doing the reading (which most people do) really contributes to the intellectual curiosity and rigor of the course.  Brett is an engaging lecturer and Summer a fantastic TF, and neither expect or even encourage you to agree with their definition of populism--they instead challenge you to shape your own. GAH I LOVE THIS CLASS.
If you're interested then take it, I just don't think history is for me.
This is an incredibly well-run course. Lectures are entertaining, the reading material is always relevant, and section is interesting and thought-provoking. I would highly recommend it for students both inside and outside of the history department. That being said, the reading load is quite heavy (although it's not necessary to complete all of it).
This class is wonderful. Brett (Prof. Flehinger) is amazing and his lectures are some of the best at Harvard, because he's not just standing up there and talking at you. He lectures socratically which is undeniably more effective. 95% of the room is engaged during the class which is much more than any other lecture class you'll take at Harvard. The content of the course is also very interesting, and Brett has a very distinct argument that helps you understand the content while also allowing you to take your own stances on how you view things in the class. Everyone who's even remotely interested in taking a history class should take this one. It's a real keeper.
This was one of my favorite courses I've taken at Harvard. Brett and Summer are fantastic and really care, and as I second-semester Senior studying a science, I felt incredibly mind-blown, challenged, and supported at every point in the semester. This course changed the way I viewed how history is made.
Great history course if you're interested in American history or political movements.  Be wary that you have to put a bit more thought into the course than others may require, as the end of the course basically asks you to define what populism is and how it evolved through the ages.
Be ready for a ton of reading, and a really heavily weighted final.
If you love American history, take this course. If you love politics, take this course. If you're on the fence about American history or politics, take this course.
GREAT CLASS. BRETT ROCKS. This class provides a great understanding of thematic history. Good use of primary and secondary sources.
This was an interesting course. I come from a rural area in the upper Midwest so many of the people I lived around as I grew up hold many ideas that are considered populist. It was interesting for me to learn about ideas and values I took for granted growing up from a different perspective. The teaching staff does not make their political leanings a secret, but they do a good job of presenting conservative populist ideas fairly when other people might mock or dismiss them without bothering to understand them.
This class provides an excellent presentation of material from one of the most important themes in American history. Brett is a FANTASTIC lecturer and is super dynamic. Summer is an incredible TF and facilitates super interesting discussions about the readings, which are really great. This class is one you should definitely try to take at Harvard. It causes you to think deeply about American history in a very specific way and pushes you to think about your own position.
Professor Flehinger and Summer created a great environment in which to study a fascinating aspect of American history. I really enjoyed this course for the materials and the lectures/sections. Populism is a rather unwieldy topic because it is difficult to define, but it's a challenge worth confronting. For anyone interested in American history, this was a very good course.
This is an engaging, exciting course taught by people who clearly care about and are very good at teaching.
Brett is a fantastic lecturer, Summer is a fantastic TF. They are always more than willing to help. This is a great class for prospective History concentrators, grizzled veterans, or for people who just want to know more about farmers and Sarah Palin. Take the course, you'll be glad you did.
It was very scattered and might take another year of focusing itself before it reaches its full potential.
This is a really great class! Brett and Summer work really well together and the material, particularly the modern stuff is fascinating
This is an amazing class. It's a lot of work so definitely don't take it unless you're really interested in the material and willing to devote time to it.
This is a great American History course. I would recommend taking it early on, because it is applicable throughout any and all future American history courses a student will take.
Incredible professor.
Awesome course. I would definitely recommend it to anyone interested in American history.
engaging professor who loves students and engaging reading that's fun to complete
This course is both an excellent survey of American political history and a fascinating analysis of what exactly populism means in our political discourse.  The best part, though, is easily Professor Flehinger.  Quite simply, hes one of the best history professors Ive had at Harvard.
This class provides an excellent introduction to a very salient issue and a fascinating historical debate.  Not only does it shed light on the most interesting chapters of American political history, it also goes a long way to demonstrate how historical arguments should be constructed and interact with one another.
The definition of populism is hard to grasp. You must keep up with the readings and actively think about the subject.
Interesting course material. Take if you are interested in American history. Covers major events through a different lens.
Its a lot of work and a lot of reading but if you are willing to do it then its fascinating.
This is a good class and you will definitely come away with a greater understanding of American Populism and how certain aspects of it were applied throughout history and today. You gain a better understanding of how Populism is used today and what it means, both when figures claim to be Populists and how populist ideology and methodology is used in politics towards the American public. However, unless the course changes, beware that it does try to cover too much and feels a bit rushed, in particular the secondary readings. The lectures are fantastic, but sometimes they too feel rushed in trying to cover too much.
It is very interesting, but tough.
I keep thinking about populism and how it manifests itself in everyday contemporary life. This is a testament to how Prof. Flehinger can bring the ideology/cultural movement/political movement (however you define it) alive and pervasive throughout the 1800s to today.  His engaging lectures and amicable, welcoming relationships with students is refreshing.
An interest in politics and a commensurate knowledge is required for this course.  The more you already know about 20th (and to a lesser extent late 19th) century politics, the bigger an advantage you'll have when you walk through the door.  As someone with only basic knowledge of these subjects, I felt somewhat challenged at times.
Take any opportunity you can to spend time with Brett! He's really smart, funny, and actually cares about getting to know students (he's the Lowell Resident Dean, so he gets us).
Highly relevant to American politics, historical or modern.
