A really fascinating and fantastic course, and very accessible to those with little background in the subject (like me). It's really too bad this is its last year Harvard is going to have a hard time finding someone like Mottahedeh (if they even try).
Excellent survey course about the Middle East from 1055 to 1517. Also zooms into various political, social, and cultural aspects of the region.
You are being taught by a giant in the field, take advantage of it.
Professor Mottahadeh is amazing.
This period of Islamic history is fascinating, and even more when it is taught by Prof. Mottahedeh, one of the most interesting and friendly professors I have had at Harvard!
Professor Mottahedeh is a rare professor here at Harvard - his enthusiasm is amazing, and he is by far the most knowledgeable professor I've ever had. There isn't a question about the topic that he can't answer.
The topic is fascinating, and Prof. Mottahedeh has an incredibly deep understanding of all the major themes and aspects of the history of the region in this period.
This course teaches the history of an often-forgotten "middle period" in between the great caliphate eras and the age of empires (i.e., it teaches what happened between the fall of the Abbasids and the rise of the Ottomans and Safavids). Because it is often neglected in history courses, it's wonderful to get a taste of the primary and secondary literature that deal with this period, and learning more about it is well worth it! Additionally, students should take any opportunity to learn from Professor Mottahedeh.
Professor Mottahedeh is a real credit to our institution and, from what he repeatedly says, he may not be teaching for much longer. For anyone who has even the slightest interest in Islam or the Middle East, it would be a real shame not to take the rare opportunity of taking a class with him. Equally important, the course is a survey of one of the most interesting and exciting periods in the history of Islam and the region more generally.
This is a wonderful course which provides great insight into innumerable topics in Islamic history. The professor's own interests and wisdom come through in the lectures, which manage to provide both a strong background for those new to the discipline and countless rarer insights which the grad-student and concentrator will find immensely valuable.
It helps disillusion students who might have too rosy a picture of the various empires' medieval past but is fair and sensitive to Islamic theory and ideals due to the professor.
