I can't even describe how amazing this course is. If you have space in your schedule, take it. if you don't have space in your schedule, make space in your schedule, then take it. I'm not a history person, but prof flehinger makes the material SO interesting and engaging, and it makes sense to me in a way that i had never even thought was possible. it also feels so profoundly relevant to your own life -- i never understood why people would concentrate in history before, but after this class & seeing how passionate prof flehinger is about it and how truly he believes in the power of history to help you understand your own world... i'm sold. he also does an incredible job of getting to know his students & making your opinions feel valuable and validated. also teaches you so much material in such a short time. i'm going to miss this class so much -- take it!!! you learn the material, but also about history as a discipline, your own environment as a product of its past... so many different, important, valuable things.
I am enthusiastically recommending this course because of its encouragement of intellectualism - thinking for thinking's sake. The captivating reading list in itself is enough reason to take the class. You have Americans from Angela Davis to Ronald Reagan included on the syllabus; the primary sources were rich and engaging to read. Professor Flehinger was a very engaging lecturer, and very funny - one of the best I've seen at Harvard. Flehinger also encouraged us to think critically and fostered a sense of intellectualism that I found valuable.
A great class for freshman of sophomores looking to explore 20th century American history and politicsa gateway to think about other classes/professors with whom to work in future years at Harvard. Brett is a wonderful lecturer and a teacher who is committed to his students doing wellhe will take time to meet with you, get to know your strengths/weaknesses, etc.
This is an awesome course!  There isn't too much reading and Professor Flehinger is great.  We basically cover a new decade/movement each week, which means it moves quickly but you never get bored.
Brett's a great lecturer, although the class is often more sociological than historical.
If you are interested in expanding your knowledge of US History, this course may be for you, though it is certainly not a foundational course in US History. A fair amount of weekly reading and worthwhile lectures.
Very good course. Not life-changing, and probably not a TON of information you couldn't get elsewhere... but well-taught and interesting readings. It's a great course to take if you haven't got any other courses you "need" to take this semester, but I wouldn't move mountains to make time for it.
This course discusses patterns and themes vitally central to our American history and today.
This is an amazing class to take either as a history concentrator or as someone looking for an interesting elective. It may seem like there are a lot of readings but the vast majority of them are incredibly interesting sources. Brett is one of the best teachers at Harvard - beyond being a great lecturer, he actively gets students to participate during class. He's also extremely available outside of class and one of the few professors I've had who makes an effort to make students feel comfortable seeking him out. The class actually played a big role in convincing me to become a history concentrator - if you're interested in modern politics, it provides a really fascinating way to look at the subject that you won't get out of gov classes.
1) This class probably has a high Q score. It did when I took it. I don't know why.
2) This class was an organizational disaster. Pages were readings were sent out late, and often not at all; sections were canceled half the time, etc. Very few people were taking this class seriously by its midpoint.
3) This lack of seriousness should not make you think this class is easy. There's a research paper. You're given no guidance.
4) Lectures start off very strong and quickly become a weird combination of vauge and overly specific. 
5) Please don't take this class.


1) Organization. The lack of organization (especially during the second half of the class) directly hindered everyone's capacity to take the class seriously. Pages for readings were sent out late, then not at all; I went to a total of five sections in my assigned room at my assigned time, etc. Everyone I talked to found this aspect of the class laughable several weeks into the semester. I don't know what exactly butted the seriousness of this problem--maybe it was the small group of dedicated, vocal students who continued to devote a lot of time to thinking about the course--but I would highly, highly recommend making organization a priority in future years.

2) Lectures. Lectures were generally fluid, sometimes interesting, frustratingly pedantic at times. This was a class largely driven by broad themes, themes which were lost in a barrage of weirdly excessive detail during some lectures (Vietnam and McCarthyism come to mind especially). The Socratic method, often ill-suited for lecture settings, frequently became comic: "What do children become?" Adults, right?

3) "Write a 15-page primary source research paper on some aspect of 20th century American history" is a really tough assignment for non-history concentrators (I'm a history concentrator)--I think, largely due to the difficulties associated with actually knowing how to locate and delve into proper primary sources and secondary texts in a relatively short period of time. This is a niche skill, and this class seemed to have lots of non-history concentrators (which is great!) who didn't really know where to start with this. This is more a general problem I have with the History department here than a truly specific complaint about this class--there really just need to be more assignments that a) provide a set of primary sources and b) demand more than a "close reading" (thanks, English!) of them. There's just simply not enough time in the average student's day during the academic year to properly research and treat primary sources.
This class is great for anyone interested in American History. Professor Flehinger is a great lecturer and the course is really well organized with a stellar reading list. It is a good deal of reading, but well worth it. I cannot recommend  it strongly enough.
Brett is a great and enthusiastic teacher, lectures were interesting and the reading was great
This class is a great history class for non-concentrators. Brett is a gifted instructor who teaches not just history, but the historical method extremely well. A fun elective for those looking to get their feet wet!
As someone who loves government and is especially interested in American life during the 20th century, I was excited to take this class. Unfortunately, though Professor Flehinger is an enthusiastic lecturer and teacher, I found the class to be less substantive and organized than most courses I've taken at Harvard. We often didn't receive reading assignments until the day they were due and sections and assignments were canceled on very short notice. Regrettably, by the end of the semester, I felt like I learned more in my high school AP US History class than I did from History 1434.
This class is a great, quick overview of the 20th century, interesting mostly because the way the course material is presented thematically. It would be fantastic even for someone who isn't a history concentrator, and most of the coursework is quite digestible. Moreover, Professor Flehinger is a phenomenal lecturer--he brings great energy to the class, and I looked forward to going to lectures.
History 1434 was a great course that I highly enjoyed and learned a lot frm. Prof. Flehinger is a great lecturer and really nice person. I was never bored or not paying attention in lecture, even when I was really tired or stressed, because he is very engaging and interesting and is able to involve students in lectures. A lot of the readings are really interesting and not painful to do. Prof. Flehinger was pretty bad this year about giving us the page numbers for readings, so you might have to hound him for those. Also there is a midterm paper and exam a week apart and both a final paper and exam, which sucks but the class is worth it.
I really enjoyed this course. If you have any interest in 20th century American history, I really recommend it. It helped me view American history from a different perspective, from the point of view of public vs. private, rather than as linear cause and effect relationships. It's well-organized and taught well.
Amazing course. Brett is the best lecturer I've had at Harvard, and the material is very interesting.
A fantastic course with fantastic teachers! Prof. Flehinger and Irvin were both amazing. The lectures are engaging and fun; section is informative and never boring. Definitely take this class if you are at all interested in American history- or if you just want an exciting and reasonably easy class!
You will learn so much, and 100%, absolutely walk away with a better understanding of American history, and the relationship between the government and population in our country.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Lectures were always fantastically engaging and stimulating and provided a lot of information without feeling burdensome. Readings, though long at times, were always interesting and felt irreplaceable in the syllabus. The course gives you a new perspective on twentieth century American history instead of rehashing the same arguments of other history classes. I came away from the course with a better understanding of how politics worked in history, and, as a result, a better understanding of how modern politics and social movements were formed. This is definitely a must-take class.
Bottom line: lecture is phenomenal and beyond engaging, section is very stellar. This has been one of the best history courses I have taken here. It is not without its flaws, but overall stellar.
This class is awesome- so engaging, participatory, and not a super high stress.
The premise of this class is fascinating, but the quality of the teaching is inconsistent. Lectures can be great or unintelligible,  readings can be illuminating but then ignored in class and section even when they are very applicable or assigned at the last minute with an unclear connection. In terms of the reading and writing, it's not terribly hard and you don't need a ton of history experience. But the disorganization can be very frustrating, so beware.
This class is excellent! Professor Flehinger is a great lecturer and presents the material in a very cohesive way.
Interesting perspective on American history in the 20th century. Lots of reading and lots of work. Take the class pass/fail if you are taking for an elective.
You will come out of this class with a really wonderful understanding of how the role of the US government changed over the course of the 1900s and how important the 20th century was in helping create the government that we currently have. The reading is manageable, Professor Flehinger is a great lecturer, and this is a really, really interesting class.
Great lectures from professor Flehinger. It is a lot of work but a great way for history to be taught
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.  You won't be bored in lecture, and the material is great.  Highly recommended!
This course is a very interesting take on 20th Century American History. Even familiar topics were approached in a new way that tied everything together with common themes.
Take this class. Brett is an amazing teacher. I read some of the best books I have read thus far in college.
I really enjoyed this class at first, but it definitely lost steam by the end of the course. Essentially, Professor Flehinger gives some great lectures and gives some lectures where he doesn't get through any of the material and he spends the whole time taking questions from students.
Prof. Flehinger is a great lecturer and he does a great job in this course of getting past the usual first level of historical scholarship and exploring some more complex cultural and social issues in America. If you want to understand the way America developed over the last 60 years in particular, this is a great course for you.
It's a lot of reading, and the combination of an essay, a midterm, a research paper, AND a final makes for a lot of work, but it is an AMAZING history course. The readings are interesting, the section discussions are great, and the lectures are some of the best I've ever attended. If you're interested in American History at all, this is a course you should definitely take.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Learned a tremendous amount from the lectures and the readings. Can't recommend it highly enough.
Professor Flehinger is a great lecturer. He is engaging and takes an interest in his students. The TFs are also of very high quality and are easily accessible. The grading is very difficult.
I was planning to be an English concentrator until I took this course and am not Hist and Lit. Brett is one of the most accessible teachers I have ever had -- he volunteers to set up study sessions, hold review sessions, and even edit drafts of papers. He is an extremely committed teacher and an engaging lecturer and will show you why American history is vital to you. Take this class. There are a lot of readings, but they're very interesting and you'll get a lot out of them.
Fantastic course - a lot of reading but all of it is extremely interesting. The exams are fair and the papers aren't bad. Get to know Brett too, he's awesome!
If you have a good working knowledge of 20th c. American history, don't take this course; you just won't get a ton out of it. That being said, Brett is an incredibly engaging, dynamic lecturer who really cares about his students.
Absolutely incredible. This class fundamentally changed the way I look at modern-day American politics. Flehinger is the best lecturer I've ever had at Harvard; he really respects his students' comments and thoughts and makes every second of lecture highly entertaining. There is a pretty ridiculous amount of reading, though, and even though it's all more or less fascinating, it can get tedious. Don't take this class if you have an otherwise reading-heavy semester, because you'll want to be able to put the time in that it demands.
Solid class, lots of interesting readings, and Brett is an engaging (and very Socratic) lecturer.
I absolutely loved this class! Professor Flehinger is amazing -- he is so smart, engaging, funny, and ridiculously approachable via e-mail and in person. All you have to do is talk to him once and he knows your name and you feel like he is there to help you. The subject matter is super interesting (a great survey of American history in the 20th century) and the readings each week were so enjoyable -- I didn't find a single one slow! TAKE THIS CLASS.
This is not a full survey of American history in the 20th century
Brett is a terrific lecturer, the best I've ever had, and is nothing but enthusiastic about teaching and speaking with students. Unlike other professors, he is open about the holes in his own arguments and happily and openly welcomes feedback. I feel fully engaged in Brett's classes.
Would you like every lecture to be taught with enthusiasm and knowledge? Then I beg of you to take this course.
A good class that goes beyond high school United States history through thematic lectures (though still chronological) and a close analysis of primary works.  The professor has his ups and downs, being very caring towards students and enthusiastic, but his lecturing style can be unusual and is sometimes incomprehensible.  Have an idea of a topic you might want to research.  It is a solid class- definitely consider taking if you are interested in history and government.
Professor Flehinger is one of the best professors I've had in my 4 years at Harvard! The subject matter was incredibly interesting, and though there's a lot of reading, they're never dense or boring. Definitely take this course if you're looking for a history course to take!
If you're going to take one history class at Harvard, make it this one: Flehinger is amazing and makes the subject matter--which is already highly relevant--fascinating. He will force you to look at American history in new ways.
I learned so much in this course. Definitely take this if you're interested in American history.
For any lover of American history or for someone maybe looking for one history class to take during college, this is a must. Professor Flehinger is a great lecturer, quite funny, and very friendly. He actually knows most students' names and tries to get to know them. The readings are mostly wonderful - many of them are fundamental primary sources of American history (e.g. The Feminine Mystique). The exams must be studied for but not are too overwhelming. The papers are difficult - give yourself a lot of time to do the research paper well. I took this class as a first year, and it a fun, challenging way to check out the history department.
Interesting class. A LOT of reading
This course tells you a lot of vital things you need to know to understand contemporary government and politics. You feel like you learn A LOT. Be warned though - it is a lot of work. At times, the content presented can feel overwhelming and confusing, but the teaching is great.
This course has a very random syllabus and while the teaching staff might think they present an intellectually unified survey of the 20th century, it comes off as a very scatterbrained approach to thinking about the 20th century. Professor Flehinger is very friendly and is a dynamic lecturer, but he wastes an incredible amount of time, focuses on things that dont matter (we once spent an entire lecture on mundane and unimportant details of watergate), and doesn't offer a refreshing take on the history of the 20th century. His most interesting critiques are that americans respond to changing economic structures (like the rise of corporations before the progressive era) but none of the readings address such critiques and he leaves them undefended, as if they are givens. I'm pretty certain I learned more from my AP US history course than I did hear, except I didn't read primary sources then.
Be ready for a grade a little lower than you normally expect from your average history classes, and a professor who seems to help you with everything but what you really need. Brett really helps history majors think, and the lectures are phenomenal, but be ready to be swamped with a LOT of material, a sometimes confusing narrative, and lower grades than you may expect.
This is a great course for sophomores considering history as a concentration or for anyone looking for a 20th century survey course. It is also great for upperclassmen looking for something intellectually rigorous. This is one of the few courses where participation and debate are encouraged throughout the lecture (not only at the end of class).
Professor Flehinger is a great lecturer and has structured the class really well. The class drew me to political history but I don't know if it was because of the content or the election cycle.
If you took APUSH and feel like you learned a pretty good amount, this class won't offer all that much in the way of new material. Some of the readings, both primary and secondary, are really interesting, Brett's a great lecturer and really helpful in office hours, and the teaching staff are all great. However, in terms of what you come away feeling like you've learned, I'm not sure I can explain 20th century changes in American governance any more coherently after taking this course than I could before taking it.
This was a really engaging and interesting course that I would recommend to anyone looking for a solid background in the subject.
Professor Flehinger is a fantastic lecturer and was consistently funny and engaging. Although the time period covered by this course initially struck me as sort of random, he managed to draw connections in really interesting ways and provided a compelling narrative of the 20th century in America as one of alienation and adjustment. The syllabus is a knock-out: a lot of the readings were great, but the article about the rise of suburban shopping centers was probably the most interesting article I read all semester in any class. This course is highly recommended for anyone interested in 20th century America.
The lectures just aren't that good, the readings aren't great, and it seems like its A.P. U.S. history all over again.
Prof. Flehinger is awesome. But be prepared to read and analyze.
The reading was a bit disorganized.
If you love history, that alone will make this an enjoyable class. If you don't, the organizational failings can prove frustrating.  I belong to the first group, so I had a wonderful time.  Brett is incredibly knowledgable and a terrific lecturer, but he drops the ball administratively.
Do the reading.  There is too much of it, but it's valuable.
This is a great class that will teach you important things about the foundation upon which modern American politics rests. It is very interesting, the professor is great, and it is a must take class.
TAKE IT. Fantastic class, most captivating lecturer I've ever heard. If you ever have a chance to take a class with Brett don't pass it up. It's filled with upperclassmen, but I took it as a freshman and loved it.
It's graded toughly, and isn't particularly organized.  Even if you are interested, I would recommend staying away.
This course is an able survey of 20th century American social history, and does well to thematically connect social movements across the century.
Sections and lectures are very interesting.
Very similar to McGirr's 1960s class. The first half of the course is phenomenal, the second half is a little less well-organized and scattered.
Lectures are fantastic and the reading list is full of stuff you've always wanted to read about anyway.  The course jumps around a bit and focuses on some topics more than others and Bret may call an audible on an assignment from time to time; it keeps things exciting, but it definitely irked those who like to have things really organized.
This class is fantastic and it will fascinate not only history majors but also econ, government, and social studies majors. It covers an incredible breadth without ever losing sight of over-arching themes. The lectures are the best I've ever experienced. Doing the readings simultaneously makes the classes even more effective and enjoyable.
This class covers a lot in a short amount of time, but it gives new interpretations on frequently studied events.  It is also a good experience to read so many excellent primary sources, including Hull House, The Feminine Mystique, and various pieces of Civil Rights literature.
Take it -- it's worth it.
Brett is great.  Lecture is an absolute pleasure.  This course explores themes and movements that weren't likely to be mentioned in high school American History, so it's incredibly interesting.
This course a really interesting aspect of American history. Brett is a great lecturer, he keeps your attention the entire time.
Brett is amazing
Awesome instructor
This is a great course! Brett is an amazing professor- great lecturer, super accessible, and loves to get to know his students and help them out. The course material is really interesting and Brett presents it in such a great and interesting way.
The most engaging history course at Harvard. A model for how History should be taught in the 21st century.
Do the readings and go to lecture.  Also, attend as many of Brett's optional discussion sections as you can.  And office hours.
This class presents very interesting information from economic and cultural angles, and Brett's lectures are great. Unfortunately, the course is a little disorganized. But, if you're prepared to make the extra effort to get to know the professor and teaching fellows, it is definitely worth taking.
