A great class to learn Ottoman history, teacher is excellent, open-minded and encouraging, assignments are stimulating and challenging. Lots of reading required. Also start thinking and researching your term paper as soon as possible, because digital assignments and course readings take a lot of time.
the instructor is very dynamic and has moments of pure genius and inspiration. This, however, is not consistent and, therefore, the content of the course can sometimes verge on the incomprehensible (difficult to follow, lecture does not augment/build on readings)
Professor Kafadar's lecture style tends to bounce all over the place, and we were always behind the syllabus. This made section difficult, because the readings we went over never matched up with lecture
This was a fun course, and a great overview of the period. Though the readings are long and seem tough, the thing is you don't actually have to do them all.
This class is really interesting material, and if you have an interest in Ottoman history, you should absolutely take it. The assignments are not difficult, but the readings are quite lengthy.
This course is an expert look at the second half of the Ottoman Empire. You only need to have a liking towards history to appreciate this course. Even if you have never heard of the Ottomans, Professor Kafadar's lectures will mesmerize you with his stories about war, diplomacy, coffee, romance, and religion. He is as knowledgeable as anyone in this field!
This class is a worthy followup to History 1878a. While it can be a bit scattershot at times, by the end of the class, one has a complete and wide-ranging mental image of what both state and society in the post-classical Ottoman Empire looked like, and how issues in the Ottoman Empire effected the rest of the world (and vice versa).
Prof. Kafadar is amazing - so knowledgeable and very skilled at establishing a professional yet comfortable classroom atmosphere.
This is a great class taught by a great teacher.  It may be more social history than political history, but Professor Kafadar knows the subject extremely well and his lectures are very valuable.
Great lectures, heavy reading, and you need to do the reading in order to understand what is being talked about in the lectures.
This course is very interesting is great for developing an understanding of how global socio-economic forces affect history.
Kafadar is one of the best in the department, and the material is interesting and under-appreciated.
Take good notes for the exams!
Take advantage of Kafadar's infectious enthusiasm and get into some of the fascinating social/cultural asides he mentions in class for a final paper topic- really rewarding.
The theme is an excellent one, and it may be the only chance you have to take a course on the Ottoman Empire. Still, the syllabus is somewhat disorganized, and Prof. Kafadar, while a smart lecturer, often fails to convey the larger point of his points, while being prone to digressions. It's worth taking, but caveat emptor.
Look at Europe from a new perspective with the help of an amazing professor, who just seems to know the smallest details in history!
Dr. Kafadar is one of those rare professors who is simultaneously a luminary in their field and immensely personally engaging, so a valid reason to take the course is just to get to know him. However, to get the most out of the course it is important to do the oftentimes quite extensive readings.
This is a really good class! Professor Kafadar is fantastic and is exceedingly knowledgeable in many areas in addition to the Ottoman Empire. It is the perfect amount of work- the exams are fair and the readings are definitely manageable. Definitely take it!!
Easy and interesting lecture course. Either as a preparation for the generals or for anybody who would like to get a sense of the Ottoman Empire.
The course has a profound emphasis on social, economic, and cultural history. If you have a strong preference for the "State" side of "Ottoman State and Society," you may be disappointed by its under-representation in the lectures.
