Professor Cott is a wonderful, engaging lecturer. This course provides an excellent introduction into the history of sexuality in the US and Europe.
You should realize that this class is mostly focused on American history and only touches on European history insofar as it informs American history.  That was my biggest disappointment.
Super interesting material and really good lectures. Professor Cott knows her stuff
Professor Cott certainly knows what she's talking about.  However, it was unclear to what degree she actively participated in our evaluation process.
Great, great, great class.  Your views on sexuality will be entirely transformed. Seriously, everyone should take this who's at all interested in these issues.Need to write awesome papers to get A's, but I suppose that's how it should be.
It has entirely changed my modern view of sexuality. I think i am more understanding now.
Professor Cott taught a great class that covered lots of really interesting, topical issues like sexuality, marriage, women's rights, and LGBT history, and definitely forced me to reconsider my beliefs concerning these issues.  However, I probably wouldn't recommend this as a first history course for non-concentrators, as the material was very abstract at times, and almost everyone else in the course was concentrating in history, social studies, or WGS.
This class gives very useful background knowledge for anyone interested in further pursuing theoretical or historical work about sex, sexuality or modern western social patterns. It is not always very exciting but it is a consistent, well-organized and the professor is incredibly knowledgeable.
it is a history of the united states through the best lens through which to study that history. it intersects racial politics, economics, science, and religion and is a major factor from the earliest encounters of the europeans and native americans.
This class is really fascinating. Professor Cott is incredible and her lectures are always engaging. I think everyone should take this course!
This class is fascinating and will teach you a lot about sexuality and gender in America and the world that will change the way you look at modern society and history. It is definitely worth taking, and Professor Cott is really interesting.
A great class, provides a thorough history of sexuality in America, very interesting and relevant stuff
Prof Cott is great and the material is very interesting
The readings in this course are very diverse and effective at starting good conversation, probably an interest in the topic of sexuality will help you enjoy the class the most
I really enjoyed this class. The readings are selected specifically and are fascinating, and are a great addition to the lectures which are extremely engaging as Nancy Cott is a great lecturer and knows a great deal. The workload is manageable.
Its a lot of readings. You can get by oin this class without engaging, but you're missing out on a lot of amazing sources. Truly enlightening if you're interested in sexuality in any regard.
I took this class on a whim because I knew literally nothing about the history of sexuality and I was not disappointed. I feel like I took a lot from Professor Cott's lectures, and I definitely enjoyed attending them. One thing to keep in mind is that this is most certainly a history class, rather than a theory class, so you should be less prepared to discuss gender studies than to discuss certain period's views of sexuality. Section was a little diorganized, but on the whole this class was not a huge time commitment. Also the take-home essay final is pretty nice.
This is an absolutely fantastic course. You are guaranteed to learn a lot and you will be challenged in your beliefs. Professor Cott is incredible and definitely try to be in Mycah's section, she's fantastic!
This is a very good class that will give yo a broad knowledge of sex, sexuality, and sexual mores in America and Europe pre-colonization. Nancy Cott is a very funny and intelligent professor whose knowledge about sexuality and sex is astounding. The TFs are also both really knowledgeable, though their styles are very different. This is a good course to take if you're willing to work hard on the essays -- they are surprisingly difficult and graded very harshly for a general education requirement. Otherwise, I would definitely recommend this course to expand your thinking and as a chance to connect the past to the present.
It's interesting but sometimes unengaging.
Interesting class. Lectures were either hit-or-miss each week, with some being very interesting and others being less intriguing. Course is very section-heavy, so be willing to participate heavily in discussion.
I really liked the class! Grading was pretty difficult for a gen ed, but it also teaches you to think critically about sexuality, which I found very enlightening.
This course is really interesting, but not particularly diverse.
I think in theory, this course sounds really awesome. I found the topics and the readings really interesting - however, I don't think there's much guidance as to how the topics connect or what the bigger arc of the material we are covering is - in that lectures didn't really provide much of a roadmap to how we should be synthesizing the readings. To that respect, the take home final was really difficult.
This course gives you a basic historical and theoretical framework for understanding some of the most important developments of our time with regard to gender and sexuality. The lectures and readings are essential for any well-read student of American history, but especially for those interested in the ways that sex and sexuality have changed and changed in meaning over time.
This has been my favorite class that I've taken so far. If you want to learn about how sexuality and how the perception of sexuality has changed over time. take this course! Lecture is so awesome, I had to miss once and was really upset about it.
This course will be interesting for people of all identifications.
be prepared to write a lot
Professor Cott is fantastic and section discussions offer frank and challenging (i.e. often uncomfortable) conversations about gender, sex, sexuality, race, ethnicity, stigaa, oppression, etc. Reading load looks heavy but the section responses and essay assignments allow you to focus on those that most interest you, so you are not responsible for minutia across sources.
Really great course--probably one of my favorite classes so far (I'm a junior). Lecture was usually very interesting, and the readings especially were fascinating.
A lot of reading, lectures somewhat drier than what you might expect. You should not come in with a WGS mindset expecting a WGS stlye class--this is a history class, and that became apparent very soon.
I took this for the gen ed, and while it required more reading than some of the other easier CB options, I thought it was worth it.  You can get by with skimming most of the readings, and the graded assignments included a 3-page paper, a 5-page paper, and 3 3-page papers for the take home final.Prof Cott is raelly nice and does really interesting work.  You learn a ton in the class even if you don't put in that much time.  Good class to take if you're taking other difficult classes.  Well worth my time.
Professor Cott is the best and the sections are great! Do the readings, they're usually really fun and interesting and its worth it even if they're long.
-If you are familiar with WGS concepts, it may not be that challenging, but Professor Cott is a great lecturer and the syllabus is very engaging. If you are unfamiliar with the study of sexuality, the course has the potential to be eye-opening.
This is the best class you will take at Harvard. The best class. But I also would not take this until you are at least a junior. I think it requires a level of maturity that I would not have had as a sophomore or first-year.If you want to completely revolutionize you think about gender and sexuality, take this course.
This was a very interesting class.  Professor Cott is fabulous, and the course changed the way I understood secuality and gender throughout history and today.  I would recommend it for students both in and out of history concentrations, but the weekly reading is considerable and the grading was rigorous.
This class is really interesting but is not without its flaws. Grades are not a given and you will get zero credit for the amount of work you put in.
Nancy Cott is apparently retiring so i'm not sure whether i can give useful advice here. anyway, lectures are interesting and summarize the readings well. make sure you have a good TF who grades fairly and who is not biased towards certain students in the class
Amazing class overall! Nancy Cott is not only extremely cool but is also very well informed and gives incredible lectures. Sections are low-key, fun, and engaging. The content of the class is interesting and refreshing, especially since the Harvard culture tends to shy away from talking about these kinds of things. Be prepared for a lot of reading though.
This course is everything that a Harvard course should be. Professor Cott is a great, interesting instructor, and she created an open educational environment for students. The course material itself was also fascinating, given how prominent sexuality is to life. A great course to take--would recommend with enthusiasm! It's manageable but challenges you to think differently about important subjects.
You will learn a lot and the readings are great.
I'm a senior, and Nancy Cott is probably the best lecturer I've had at Harvard. She has all the gravitas of a Minerva McGonagall, and imbues her lectures with insight and dignity. TAKE THIS CLASS!!!! The workload is *very* manageable, and the material is so interesting I can't imagine why anyone would study the history of anything else *but* sexuality. One of the best classes I've taken.
It was a fabulous course with a fabulous teaching staff that truly works to engage you with the material that is genuinely new to most students of the course.
decent gen ed. interesting lectures from cott. exams and papers far weaker.
I would consider taking this alongside, or before or after, a course on Eastern Sexuality or some kind of Eastern tradition.
Great class, sometimes a bit slow, sometimes some readings are not even necessary.
This is a good class for those who are interested in both women and gender studies as well as history. I unfortunately do not favor the history part, though that was a very interesting aspect of the course. I would suggest you take this if you want to know the origins of a lot of what WGS is about today.
Take it ONLY if you are interested in sexuality and gender. While this is not a hard class, it will be tedious if you are not interested in the topics, and tedious means that it becomes hard, which completely takes away the "not a hard class" component that you originally enrolled for. Be interested in it, or don't take it at all.
The material in this course really makes you question a lot of what you think you know about sexuality, gender, and sex.  That's a good thing, because so much of the discussion today is a direct result of historical context.  Understanding that makes talking and thinking about sexuality so much more productive.  It also makes you question yourself in a lot of ways to analyze why you do what you do, and why others do what they do.  The readings are good (though sometimes lengthy - you can put what effort level you desire into them), lectures were okay, and sections were awesome (Andrew was my TF - amazing).  Makes a great gen-ed, though you may need to get used to what it means to write a "historical thesis" (this can be learned pretty quickly).  Overall, highly recommend, especially on the grounds of the material and what you get out of it.
This class is great. The take-home is a 10-page paper essentially. There are two other papers and a group assignment. Beyond that, reading is 140 pages a week. It is simultaneously a challenging gen-ed and a wonderfully enlightening and comprehensive study of sexuality in the realm of (American) history, acknowledging that sexuality is governed by realms of power primarily! Which is super important for us all to be thinking about.
Nancy Cott is fantastic, but make sure to talk to her in person! The class is large and it's easy to get away with doing nothing and just talking in section and writing the papers the night before, but you won't get much out of it if you do that. The material is very interesting (with the exception of a couple of incredibly obtuse/confusing articles that will hopefully be cut next year) and it gave me a completely different perspective on sexuality and on the political, economic, and social forces than affect it!
Take this class. It is the kind of class that will make you question everything you think you know about a subject, and you'll bring that into your everyday life. The lectures are entertaining, the discussions are great and the readings are fascinating.
This class was frequently interesting and not very difficult. But most of it has absolutely no application in today's world. 75% of the semester is spent on pre-20th century material. The only part of the class that was relevant to today was the last month of the semester. Otherwise, it felt like we were studying things solely for an academic purpose. Sometimes the analysis was tedious because it felt like there was really no reason to be looking so deeply into the material.
Section will be interesting and lectures too, generally.  Most of the people who end up taking this class will have prior interest in the material.  It'll be tempting not to take any of it seriously, but bear in mind that you'll be in the company of people who do.  Fun class either way.
A really amazing class that is so relevant to current concerns around sex and gender
The readings are great, and you really get your preconceptions on sexuality/narratives challenged. Also, talk to Professor Cott!
This was by far one of my favorite classes at Harvard (and I'm a senior). The material was interesting, the readings were phenomenal, the assignments were actually fun to write, and section was something I looked forward to every week. It has changed the way I view the past, and how I look at contemporary society. I had never thought about sexuality as such a pertinent issue to how society functions, and looking at this with a historical perspective was fascinating. It made me wish I had studied history/ wgs all along. Professor Cott is awesome, Andrew (TF) was excellent, and I loved every second of this course.
This class was really interesting and I loved Professor Cott. The readings were interesting and the essays short. This class was low impact, but I feel like I learned a lot. Definitely take it if you are interested in issues surrounding sexuality. However, know that this is a history class so if you just want to talk about issues of the 21st Century this class may not be for you.
This course was excellent. Lectures were always clear and very interesting. Section always clarified the readings and provided useful contextual information. The readings were carefully selected and I never felt like I was doing any repetitive work. The standard of writing for the papers is very high, but the teaching staff is always very willing to provide feedback. I never felt that I was doing busy work and the assignments are well selected.
The material is really interesting and fun to learn about, but the lectures aren't always as interesting
The lectures and readings are extremely interesting.
Get Andrew as a TF! He is so great. The readings are great, too--make sure you do all of them, or the majority of them, though.
The readings are phenomenal. As are Professor Cott's lectures. I especially appreciated that she chose to talk about very specific themes each week, instead of devolving into gross generalizations about sexuality during that time period. Many of the essay topics, however, would have served better as thesis questions, so I found it fairly difficult to wrap these into 3-page responses. Overall, especially considering that I am fairly knowledgable about queer history, I learned a LOT that I previously did not know about sexuality, marriage, etc.
Not quite as great as I hoped it would be.
It's extremely interesting, and definitely challenges how you'll view the construct of sexuality.
This class is great. You'll learn things about the sexual history of the U.S. that you really never could have imagined before. The readings are all excellent. The only downside is Professor Cott's lecture style. It isn't the most engaging, and she reads from her notes the whole time. That said, what she's talking about is fascinating, the delivery is just subpar.
The readings are phenomenal and Professor Cott's lectures are information-packed and very insightful.
This class doesn't assume anything, so if you want to challenge your assumptions and learn something not just about sexuality in history but also about yourself, then this course is probably for you.
This is a fantastic course that teaches you so much about sexuality. I have studied this stuff quite a bit and this course still taught me to think about sexuality and gender in new ways.  Professor Cott is brilliant and knows so much about the course material. She is a wonderful resource and a wonderful lecturer.
Stay away!
Very interesting- especially for those who like very relevant history courses. Not too much work, but shows that the notions of sexuality in our past are not completely true
TAKE THIS CLASS! It's absolutely wonderful. If you know nothing at all about the history of sexuality, prepare to be amazed. The lectures are fascinating - short and engrossing, every single week. Your mind is blown by exactly how much sexuality is a social construction, and how the definitions and norms associated with it have been altered and revised over time. Totally changed the way I think about and conceptualize homosexuality, heterosexuality, gender roles, sex identification, etc. Take it!!!
Really interesting class, though there are long readings and a lot of your classmates will be history concentrators, so it's definitely not an easy gen ed.
This class is awesome! The professor was an amazing lecturer. The course work is extensive, but never boring. And section discussion is stimulating.
Good course in general, but sometimes as a straight white male it was hard to relate to some of the subject matter
Professor Cott is a fabulous lecturer. The course is incredibly interesting and informative. Readings are extensive but worthwhile. However, your grade will likely not suffer by not doing the readings, until the final exam. I highly recommend this course, even if you don't think you have very much interest in history.
This class opened my eyes to the ways sexual beliefs and practices have varied throughout history. We always tend to think sexuality is a private matter based in biology, but even our own desires are shaped by our social, political, and economic context. There are a lot of readings for the class (look at the syllabus for an idea), but they are all interesting. If the class sounds good to you, then you will probably enjoy the readings. Although we almost always focus on the past, there are clear implications for how we might think about sexuality in the present day.
A great introduction to the history of sexuality. It is satisfying that the course is grounded in concrete historical events, so the theory doesn't feel overly indulgent or nebulous. I learned a lot that I didn't know before, and was able to bring the knowledge I was gaining into conversation with people who were also interested to learn the new things. Many of the readings are interesting, I'll be honest I definitely didn't do all of them, and I still feel like I got a lot out of the class. The writing assignments are all relatively short, but they challenge you to think hard and be selective and focused about what you choose to say. The grading is not easy, but it's thoughtful.
This class will really force you to rethink some of your assumptions about sexuality and sexual mores. The topics covered are fascinating and range from the conception of homosexuality to legislative wars over pornography. Assignments are sometimes a little vague, but I would still heartily recommend this course!
This class was fascinating. Lecture and readings were always extremely interesting. Fair warning that essays were graded harshly and, as a non-history concentrator, I never quite understood exactly how to write a good historical essay. The take-home final was also killer. Despite these, I'm still glad I took the course as it really was one of the most interesting ones I have taken.
The lectures can be disconnected and sometimes dry.  Similarly, if you are looking for a more rigorous theoretical take on sexuality, this isn't the class for you (although those parts were my favorite).  Otherwise, the class was great and opened up an entire area of history and theory that I had never really engaged before.  Section is great and you should take advantage of it.
The class is good but not great. Lectures are quite unhelpful and dry. The reading is good but there is way too much reading and it could seriously be whittled down. The section component of the class is great, and you can honestly only go to section and do the readings at get just as much out of the class
This class made me think more outside of class more than any other class that I've taken.
This course is a must take, the historical perspectives that you learn about are extremely beneficial for a more cohesive understanding of history and of human beings in general.
The course is exceptionally well-constructed combining a high volume of interesting reading, captivating lectures and challenging content. The coverage is comprehensive and the professor is as friendly and accessible as she is dedicated to her subject.
The course is very interesting and the lectures are good.  Not a great amount of work and you get out of the readings what you put in.
This class is not a lot of work, and sections are great. The primary sources and readings are pretty interesting and can give a lot of insight into the cultural elements of society before us, rather than just looking at the facts.
Hands down one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard. Completely changed my understanding of sexuality and gender. Extremely interesting. The weekly response papers don't take too long. Seriously, take this class.
This course provides only a cursory survey of the history of sexuality. There is little in-depth examination into the topics, especially with the assignments. Workload is manageable, though there is too much reading each week to effectively complete all of it.
The course will provide a solid comprehensive history of sexuality without too much bias or opinion thrown in.
Very interesting course that gives a historical look at the evolution of sexuality and gender in the west. If you're interested in historical viewpoints of sex, sexuality and gender this is a great course to take. However, this is a history course, not a WGS cousre and you should take note of that fact. Everything is based in history and articles about history, so topics such as intersectionality are often not addressed. This can be frustrating, but is understandable because this is a history course. Overall, I thought it was well taught and interesting. I would advise to do the readings because it will make participating in section much easier and you'll get much more out of the course. I think most people should have knowledge about the history of sexuality in our country, so I would advise taking this course
The subject matter is very rich and will completely change the way that you view gender and sexuality. The weekly assignments were often tedious and the readings sometimes sometimes dense. Overall, however, this was an amazing course.
this is an amazing class that will alter the way you think about sex, sexuality, gender, and other stereotypes
The readings are all very interesting and the discussions in section are some of the best I've had in any sections. The course is very well structured and you will gain insight in a very fulfilling way - it definitely provides an individual experience.
This class is great. It reveals that a lot of our modern thinking of sexuality has been carefully crafted over time (do you even know when the term homosexual first came into use?). Professor Cott is a great lecturer and Eva was a great TF. The middle part of the class was a little dull, but overall a great class.
it's a really good class, but probably more reading than you'd expect. as long as you're willing to do the work you'll get a lot out of it
Great Introduction to the History of Sex. I learned a massive amount.
The lectures are extremely engaging. You can tell that Professor Cott is an expert on this topic and that makes it so much more interesting to come to class and do the readings.
History of Sexuality has been one of my favorite courses so far at Harvard. It's truly a humanist's view of the past 500 years of Western history, and rekindled my interest in American history particularly.
Interesting material, but lectures were often boring. I didn't feel that grading policies were all too transparent, which was frustrating.
The course material is fascinating, so doing the reading is what made me enjoy this class so much. The lectures themselves can be a bit drier, but are still interesting. There can be a lot of reading, but otherwise, there isn't much work (a couple of short papers), so the workload shouldn't scare you off.
An extremely interesting class relevant to any student, regardless of concentration. You will learn so many things about gender and sexuality that you would have never known otherwise, and which make you reconsider our society's values and views on the topic. Section part of the course is very engaging and encourages discussion on any aspect of the readings one find is most interesting. There is a lot of readings each week and it does take up some time as you also have to write a response paper each week - so I think it is a lot more work than someone would normally expect from a GenEd class. Nevertheless - strongly recommend it - can't imagine you will regret it!
Interesting topic, gets more interesting in the second half of the course. Lots of reading, but you don't necessarily need to do the reading in order to participate in section, do the assignments, follow along in lecture, etc.
Take this class if you want to learn about the history of sexuality in the modern West. Otherwise, do not take this class.
This class will completely change your views on sexuality, past and present. Be sure to come in with an open mind, a desire to learn about the history of where we come from as sexual beings, and you will be sure to get so much more out of this course than you will ever imagine.
This has been my favorite class at Harvard - fascinating and eye opening!
