Writing a thesis may be a lot of work in the spring, but it is worth it!
After watching many friends across different departments go through the thesis process, I can say confidently that History makes it as enjoyable and painless of an experience as possible. Although the thesis inevitably comes with moments (or periods) of stress, 99a/b are structured in such a way that you will not be left scrambling as long as you keep on track with the intermediate deadlines.
You have to take this course to write a history thesis (which is a fun thing to do).
N/A
It's one of the better thesis writing courses.
It's required so this is kinda irrelevant but take the guidelines & timelines they give you seriously -- they're very helpful -- and don't be anxious to reach out to Carla or Greg for extra help, they're alway generous with their time
This tutorial makes it extremely stress-free to write a thesis. You find a team of thesis writers who are generous with sharing their tips for research and writing. Additionally, the deadlines help you pace your progress and ensure you're not scrambling to finish a half-baked piece of writing before the deadline.
Take it if you want to write a history thesis.
Writing a thesis was hands-down the most rewarding academic experience I had at Harvardeven though it was at times immensely challenging. I felt like it was a meaningful way to apply a lot of what I've learned over the course of my time at Harvard to an independent project. Fortunately, History 99 provides a good deal of structure, which ensures that you will have a enough time to revise your thesis towards the end of the process. I really appreciated how much support the Department gives senior thesis writers (the 99 tutors, Departmental Writing Fellow, etc.), especially when compared to a lot of other social sciences and humanities departmentstake full advantage of all these support systems! I felt very lucky to be a History concentrator because of the 99 program.
Writing a history thesis is a stressful but great thing to do, and History 99 is a key part of the process.  Greg and Carla were fantastic this year, and I enjoyed our class meetings over the course of the spring.
History 99 was a crucial part of my thesis-writing process. Without the structure and guidance afforded by this class, I would never have been able to finish my thesis and feel proud of it!
I highly recommend writing a thesis.
You have to take this course if you want to write a thesis. The thesis process can be extremely rewarding, but is undoubtedly time-consuming and exhausting at the same time. If I wasn't writing about a topic that I really loved, I think I would've been dragging by the end. It's a long process of research and writing.
You have to take it - make sure to find mentors outside the class
The thesis course is generally unhelpful, especially in the second semester. Honestly, you need to have the skills long before senior year - this is just a means of getting together with the other seniors
Compared to other concentrations' thesis tutorials, the History tutorial is pretty helpful. Carla and Greg are really friendly faces to reach out to for help and for feedback. However, at the end of the day the onus is on you to produce work in a steady fashion. If you're not careful it is easy to just scrap together a chapter draft the night before it is due and be stuck writing your "actual" thesis in February and March. Take the course sincerely and you will do great.
If you are writing a thesis, this class will be your best friend. It is so incredibly helpful, both in the skills it provided and the timeline and deadlines we were held to.
I mean you have to take it if you are writing a thesis.  It is better than the tutorial for some other departments and it is nice to have something outside of your individual advisor.
If you're writing a thesis, you have to take it. It's a pain, but it doesn't meet that often, and it's a good way to bond with other seniors writing theses. A bunch of us still drink wine together, because, you know, senior spring.
great community
Well you have to take this to write a thesis...Wednesday evenings: a time of pure dread and anxiety in my stomach all the way up to my throat. Constant fear that I would not finish a thesis. Betsy More's implications that I was about a month further along in the process that I was. Feeling incompetent and awful in comparison to my peers. Terrorizing Betsy and Guillaume with questions and wildness. Usually had to have a rehabilitative ice cream after leaving 99. March 10: I turn in a thesis I am actually incredibly proud of. I haven't really slept in a few days and am high as a kite on hormones. This is so worth it.Take advantage of your advisor and don't be afraid to have a grad student, since they're wonderful and actually give a damn and have time to spare for your project.
Be cautious. This is a big commitment, especially when off the normal cycle.
If you want to write a thesis, do it. Dont do it because you want to take 99.
The process of writing a thesis is hugely rewarding and draining and was simultaneously be one of the most exilharating and debilitating academic and emotional experiences I've had at Harvard. Ask your advisers and support systems to be strict with you about getting your work done. Cite as you go along. There's so freaking much to say. This course as it was last year was quite frustrating and not supportive in the ways many of us felt like we needed. Hopefully they will adjust it for when it's your turn!
You have to do this if you want to write a thesis, and writing a thesis is a great process!
Take the course if you want to write a thesis.
