97 is the sole reservation that might make-or-break your feelings toward the history concentration. However, it's not impossible to get to the other side, and afterwards it will all seem worth it. This is essentially Expos 20, version 2.0.
This class was an excellent opportunity to learn about how history is "done" and start to develop my own (nascent) philosophy of history. Professor Miller is a wonderfully enthusiastic teacher, and the selection of readings that he provides is uniformly thought-provoking and readable. I really enjoyed applying an environmental lens to history, and actually found it to be a very universal and essential approach. Although Carolin won't be TFing the course in the future, she was an excellent TF whose feedback and advice was absolutely invaluable.
this course is AMAZING. if you are having a hard time deciding which seminar to take, choose this one because anything can be written as envrionmental history and the professor is great.
This course was fantastic. The papers are difficult and add a lot to your workload for the semester, and it can be draining to write about the same topic all semester. However, if you pick something you love, you'll be proud of the effort you put into the course. Don't let the workload affect your opinion of the course--Professor Miller is a fantastic instructor and very engaged with every student. He makes a big effort to reach out to students to help them with their papers and get to know them as individuals. Seminar discussions are always fast paced and thought provoking, and tutorials are a great way to critique your own work and learn about what your classmates are doing. You get to know your classmates very well because the course is small (8 students). If you have a TF like Carolin that gives honest criticism of your work and provides as much help as you need in improving, you'll be a much better writer by the end of the semester. I don't plan on studying environmental history, but I'm happy I took this 97.
This course offers a tremendous introduction to the history concentration. Your approach to historical writing and reading will improve tremendously, as Professor Miller and Carolin offer helpful feedback on all essays and make themselves available for meetings to help with research and writing. You don't even need to have a specific interest in environmental issues to enjoy this course, but if you do I highly recommend taking this course.
Environmental history is a really interesting field, integrating natural history and human history.  If you're interested in the subtopic and willing to put in the work, then the tutorial will be great.  If not this is definitely going to be a difficult course.  But environmental history is awesome so you should definitely take it :)
Not an easy class, but the sophomore tutorial is required, and that's why most of us have to take it, and if you have to take one, this is a really good one in which to enroll. This class is not just for the tree-hugger at heart. Really, I think environmental history is a good tool for any aspiring historian to have in his or her repertoire. Also, Prof. Miller is very dedicated to his students, and is both willing and able to help you improve.
This class was not at all what I expected. Chaplin is a good professor but Shuichi contributed very little. Seeing as he was the one grading the work, it seemed unfair. The feedback I received did not help me develop as a historian.
This is a good class, and Prof. Chaplin is a great professor, but at the end of the day this is tutorial and won't be the most stimulating class you take at Harvard.
A lot of writing assignments...but a good opportunity to improve writing
This class can make you a better writing in history, but you might not learn that much about environmental history beyond a few obvious definitional issues.
This was the first year of the new tutorials, so I know that they will get better. I really like Professor Chaplin, but I thought at times discussions were a bit fluffy. A lot of the people in the class didn't seem to engaged with the material, but this could have just been an isolated case for this year.
There were a few gem readings, but most of the readings were quite bland and monotonous. I don't think that the course fulfilled its potential. However, class is purely discussion-based, which is refreshing!
I would recommend this class to future history concentrators, because Environmental History is a new and interesting field, which makes the many paper assignments a little more interesting.
There is no doubt that History 97D is by far the best of the History Sophomore Tutorials. This class is tough, and it's meant to be tough, but Prof. Miller goes out of his way to be there for you every step of the way. From sending personal emails to check on our progress to bringing pizza and snacks to class, he was incredibly supportive and so generous with his time. Matthew was the most committed TF I've had at Harvard, and I cannot thank him enough for helping me grow as a writer. You can't go wrong with this tutorial section.
History 97D was the best class I've taken at Harvard. I came in as a student from another concentration who had never taken a history course, and switched into the concentration at the end of the semester. The 97 series is pretty brutal overall--almost weekly paper assignments, which are graded very strictly--but I think 97D really made the growing pains of learning how to research and write history worth it. Professor Miller was so kind, knowledgable, and a fantastic section leader who really pushed his students not only to respond to his questions, but to really respond to each other and push each other in our historical thinking. The readings offered a wonderful survey of the landscape of environmental history as a discipline, and offered extremely helpful theoretical and structural frameworks with which to work on my own final paper. If you're trying to decide which 97: I came into History 97D with an interest in environmental science, but the definition of "environmental history" is so much broader and more nuanced than the name suggests. We actually had an assignment for us to reflect on "what is environmental history?", and at the end of the day we realized that the relationships between people, their material surroundings, history, and even the definition of "environment" can be used in so many different ways. I'm biased, but I think environmental history may be unique in its versatility, and in the ways it will push you to look at the world around you, past and present. No matter which interests you come in with, environmental history will enable you to research them, and probably discover things about them/ways to think about them you never would have otherwise. 97D was also, I think, the smallest or one of the smallest sections--we had 7, while some of the other larger sections had 17--so we all really got to know one another and Professor Miller. It also meant that Professor Miller and our TF Matthew were able to offer substantial feedback on every assignment, and everyone really got to be heard during group discussions. 97D was the kind of course that small seminars are meant for, and the teaching staff will make sure that you come away having learned the skills necessary to continue the history concentration.Of course, it should be noted that 97 overall really is just a difficult and time-consuming course, probably 1.5 classes' worth of work as you run around trying to find sources, refine your research topic, etc. Decide on a narrowed research topic as early as possible, really go out to the libraries to find a wide range of sources, go to office hours--you'll need all the support the course can offer.
History 97 is by no means an easy course. It is demanding--you are expected to read and write a lot at a high level while engaging in thoughtful seminars (I found these 3 hour seminars to be long and taxing). But, of all the sophomore tutorial options, Environmental History is an amazing choice. Professor Miller and Matthew (there might be a different tf in the future) are so passionate about both the subject material and making sure each student grows as a writer and student. The small class size allows you to really learn from your classmates and receive lots of individual attention. You will emerge from this class a better writer, more thoughtful historian, and stronger scholar.
This is a challenging class, but one that makes you really become a much better writer and understand the significance of environmental history. Professor Miller is one of the most enthusiastic professors I've ever had and the feedback is tremendous.
very interesting material but also a lot of work
Contrary to EXPOS, 97D did serve as a useful foundation for my studies as a history concentrator. It was thought-provoking, and rewarding as much as it was challenging. You get what you put into this class; environmental history is refreshing and intriguing, Professor Miller wonderful. It is inspiring to learn from academics like him and Matthew.
