There are a lot of readings, but the assignments aren't too overwhelming.  Overall the class is definitely worth it if you are interested in the period of Japanese Imperialism.  Additionally, Professor Miller is a wonderful professor and very approachable.
I would suggest that they enroll in this course regardless of whether or not they have an east asian studies background.  I had never registered for a Japanese History course and was blown away by what I was able to learn from Professor Miller this semester.I would also strongly suggest that you take this course only if you are a serious History student.  This is not a class you can play catch-up in; though Professor Miller will not cold-call you, it will be awkward if you do not have anything to offer to class discussion.  That is the double-edged sword of the small, discussion-based class.
The reading is a little on the heavy side, but it is a great mix of secondary literature and primary sources with opportunity for close discussions of the readings.
Take this course if you have a strong interest in the material.
This could be a very good class but I wouldn't take it if it looks like it will be at capacity. The strength of the class is the discussions and that is lost if there are too many people.
Professor Miller is wonderful.  I found the workload to be manageable, and Prof. Miller is very helpful when you need to figure out a topic for a presentation and for the final paper.  Even if you're not a history concentrator, I highly recommend this course.
It is important to keep on top of the readings.  And be sure to do the response papers, because they really help you absorb and get a handle on the sources and material.
Redefines the way you think about history and Western wars.  Issues of Japanese imperialism reaches all sorts of interesting topics: nature of colonialism, historical determinism, and morality of war. Prof Miller is also an amazing teacher: very kind and knowledgeable, and makes the class a delight. I found it a very enjoyable seminar. Also, no background is necessary. Prof Miller is very supportive of everyone--freshmen, senior, history concentrators, and those who have no background in the humanities. Take it!!
Professor Miller is the professor who has been most engaged and shown the most interest in his students that I have met at Harvard.  He really cares about his students and is interested in helping them develop, so I highly recommend taking a small course with him.  However, I would only recommend taking this class if you are strongly interested in Japanese history and have at least some background in it.
This seminar course is extremely interesting. A lot of the new knowledge I learned from this course is shocking in a good way because it gives me completely new perspectives on how to examine the Japanese Empire. Discussions are very inspiring, especially when it reaches the philosophical realm where there is no right or wrong answer. It is also important to note that the knowledge we learn from the Japanese Empire can easily be applied to examine government in other time and location. For me, the interaction between Japan and its "colonies" are the most interesting parts of the course. I definitely recommend this course.
