I'm certain any class led by Alexia Yates and Eva Bitran would be an intellectual gift, and I'm so happy to have been part of this oneincredibly thoughtful, respectful, and challenging discussions prepped with awesome readings.  The writing assignments had high standards, and helped me improve historiographic researching, writing, and thinking very quickly.
Solid amount of work but very rewarding.
Alexia and Eva were both FANTASTIC. Although I am a history concentrator, I often felt uncomfortable since I didn't have a lot of knowledge about the history of urbanization and the theory behind it. That being said, I have usually found that such classes force me to work that much harder to grasp it, and that's exactly what happened this time around. Wonderful experience!
Dr. Yates is very knowledgeable and engaging. This course has a great format and is an interesting introduction to urban
The class can be very interesting and I did enjoy it, but it is more of a history class than a sociology class. That being said, the readings can be dense but the class does not require huge inputs of work. If you do the readings then you will find tutorial/section very rewarding because the topics are very, very interesting.
An absolutely phenomenal, life-changing experience. At the risk of sounding a bit histrionic, this has been one of the singular Harvard-defining courses I have been in search of since freshman year. The course has been challenging in the most rewarding of ways, forcing me to elevate my level of academic workmanship to another level. The varied discourses regarding urbanization and globalization were seamlessly integrated into the course, resulting in a uniquely provocative reflection on the city as the product of economic, social, and historical discourses. Though each of us were tasked with exploring a particular city, at no point in the course did this focus become mawkish, as we were required to evaluate the work of our peers who worked on other cities. The readings for the course re-emphasize the global aspect of the city, and places as disparate as Lagos, Dubai, London, and Berlin are united under the umbrella of the "global city" effortlessly. Taught by a passionate, witty, and tremendously erudite professor accompanied by an equally passionate, accessible, and intelligent Teaching Fellow, this course has been nothing short of an academic revelation.
Blog assignments always take far longer than anticipated and are often confusingly worded
This class is pretty frustrating. The readings are really dense and there are a lot, especially considering you have to do a blog assignment or update your blog (which is actually really hard) every week. The grading is pretty tough, definitely not an easy class to do well in. Some of the stuff is really interesting and the class discussion setup of the class is great, but it's definitely not an easy course. Professor Yates is hilarious though, so you may want to take it just for her.
great class. the mapping assignments are refreshing (even though they seem arbitrary). the grading for these assignments seem a bit arbitrary. but the class readings are GOOD
a historiographic survey of The City as a historical concept, spanning continents, time periods, and methodologies. A fascinating and expanding study of urbanity, but subject to the idiosyncrasies of whoever your classmates happen to be, and also to the teachers.
Interesting course materials and great professor.  The blog assignments take some getting used to and take a good amount of time.
