Great opportunity to talk about interesting aspects of Roman history with some very smart people.
Take this class. Particularly if you can take it with Professor Dench and Rowan. It is a great opportunity to work closely with two incredible instructors. Be prepared to do a fair amount of reading if you actually want to get something out of this course. This course is a great way to prepare to write a thesis.
Professor Dench and Rowan make an extraordinary teaching team.  They're both hilarious, knowledgeable about the subject matter, and extremely approachable.  They clearly expect a lot out of their students and provide them with the support necessary to succeed on the final papers.
Very interesting class - great opportunity to explore roman imperialism from different perspectives and a great analytical experience
This is a great class to take if you want to explore what excites you in the ancient world, learn to evaluate ancient sources, or even just experience Emma Dench's good humor.
Professor Dench is one of the History department's best professors, if not one of FAS's best. The topic (imperialism) is also of interest to any student of history, so this is a wonderful way to learn about it in a very engaging class environment.
I always came in with much anticitipation, and left with excitement. Prof. Dench's interest for the material is totally contagious. I have become so interested in the Roman empire that I am considering ways to incorporate aspects of it into research interests of mine. Also, Prof. Dench is such a  wonderful person, teacher and scholar. You just want to sit there and listen to her.
Although the class is hindered by a weak integration of chronology and theme and some students lack the basic knowledge necessary to deal with this more complicated topic, Professor Dench makes the class very fun (and knows everything), Andrew works really hard, and the freedom in the paper topic is nice.
The instructor is enthusiastic and absolutely "gets" learning - she creates an environment that is encouraging.
Prof. Dench is a wonderful teacher - very engaging and entertaining. The material is extremely interesting.
You will be happiest in this course as a Classicist rather than as a historian.  Yes, we discussed topics in Roman history, but there was no attention paid to narrative and no real historiography or argument over evidence.  I found the weighting towards primary sources lopsided and frustrating.  I found the course to be lacking in focus, and for this reason the student should be comfortable discussing disparate topics--doing something akin to "Topics in Roman History"--without adhering to a theme or central investigate question.
Great course, one of the nicest professors at Harvard, and extremely knowledgeable and approachable.
Professor Dench is one of the best instructors you will get a chance to interact with. Even if that be your only reason for taking this course, take it. It's worth it.
I'm not sure, but I think this class would be better served with only juniors and sophomores, capped at 15 people.
This is a great course, and Emma is a fantastic teacher.  I learned a lot, and discussions in class were wonderful.  The class is a fair amount of work, and readings can at times be kind of dense.  If you're able to put the time in, then it's a fabulous course and I would definitely recommend.
Roman Imperialism is a terrific history course, that allows you to engage with some fascinating materials.  Professor Dench and Monica couldn't have been more knowledgeable or supportive.  The only thing I'd warn of is that students who've never studied Roman history before may find themselves initially overwhelmed.  It's a very in-depth course, and covers many high-level academic texts, so if Roman history as a whole is new to you you're probably going to struggle a bit at first.  Nevertheless, it's an excellent history class that fulfills its project very well.  If you have any interest in ancient history at all, you'll have fun and learn a lot.
If you have the opportunity to take a course with Professor Dench, you should definitely do it.  She is fantastic, and the workload is completely manageable.
Emma is fantastic! The freedom to explore topics of interest throughout this class (readings, response papers, research paper) is a great strength. You WILL learn about Rome. However--and this is probably my most important note--you will probably learn a FEW things in great DEPTH. This is the opposite of a survey course. I know I would have gotten a lot more from this course if I had had a background in Roman history.
Although I am a history major, this was still a very challenging course for me. I have not dealt with ancient history extensively, but Professor Dench and Monica were superb in engaging with both those with limited and more broad-based understandings of Roman history, imperial or otherwise. I enjoyed the way that this course encouraged me to dig deeper, to wrestle with questions and themes, and to really put a lot of effort into the final paper. I would recommend this class for those with a particular interest in Roman history!
Professor Dench is easily the most enthusiastic professor you will find at Harvard.  Her love of all things Roman is present throughout this class, which promises to make it a memorable experience!  You may get more out of this course if you have some background in Roman history before taking it.  I took it without any background and at times felt lost in the material, though that didn't detract from the interest and my ability to enjoy the class.
This is a great course for finding out about a variety of different aspects of the Roman Empire, from its army and its government to its religion and language. Just remember to do the reading, but be ready to feel lost a little anyway.
Take this class! The professor is amazing and the subject is unlike any other history you've studied before.
