Ozment is a champ.
Provides good background for areas that might include the Renaissance and Reformation.  Also, in general, a good history course.
An interesting class where you can learn a lot if you do the readings.
It is not demanding and Professor Ozment is chill.  If you like history, it is doable. There was only one paper the whole semester, so, again, it is not demanding.
Take this class if you are interested in the period, and really trust yourself to be a self-starter. This class is not particularly hard, but the more enthusiasm you bring to it, the more you will get out of it and likely do well.
If you are interested in historiography take it. If not, then don't.
Professoz Ozment and Michael were great in facilitating this class.
It was very interesting. It was a historiography seminar and as such we focused a lot on style and methodology, we didn't spend as much time discussing the time period as I expected.
It's not heavy workload, and if you like the topic, go for it.
Shame this class with Prof Ozment wont be around anymore
Only take it if you are really interested in the subject material or need to fulfill your pre-modern requirement.  If you are really interested in the subject material, I could see this class being really great because you get to work with Ozment.  I, on the other hand, only took the course because I needed to fulfill my pre-modern requirement.  But it was great to get to know Ozment because I really like him as a person.  Very sweet, caring teacher.
The class is not fun, but you can learn a lot of very valuable approaches to history just by doing the assigned reading.
you have to like history, and you have to like pre-modern history, then you also have to like being in charge of the pursuit of your interests.
This class requires you to be very proactive, so get started on your research paper early and explore the topic a lot. Use Professor Ozment for help, he's extremely knowledgeable and very friendly!
Only take if you are a self-starter and have an interest in the Reformation.
If you are interested in Renaissance history, I strongly recommend taking this class. Professor Ozment is the preeminent scholar in this field, so you will gain a lot from being able to learn from a man who has done it all in this field. Class discussion are lively, and the final paper teaches you how to think critically about history.
Professor Ozment is great and very knowledgeable, but the course is a bit lifeless.
Ozment is a champ.
The class is almost no work, literally. Professor Ozment is very low key and an enjoyable professor, but the course really doesn't offer too much.
Professor Ozment is a cool, laidback guy, but he can be pretty disorganized and goes on long tangents a lot.  I hate to say it, but I actually didn't learn very much from this class.  However, it is pretty easy - there's minimal reading for a reading seminar and there's only one paper.
This is a very laid-back reading seminar. It is slightly disorganized, but I do think you can get a lot out of the readings, but it all depends on what you want to put into it. It doesn't require a lot of time or effort, at least until the final paper.
