a type of class rarely found at harvard, an intimate lively discussion of history that is relevant to today
This course is a unique experience.  If you want to understand Paris in an intimate fashion, or modernity in general, take this course.
If you're interested in the subject, and willing to dive into it completely, take the course.
Professor Higonnet is an enjoyable teacher with whom to spend two hours weekly.  He knows a great deal about his subject matter and tales many a good story (tangential or otherwise!).  You can create your own path in terms of workload -- response papers and final paper are completely open ended.
This class is very similar to a history and literature course, so bear that in mind. This will not interest any Guns and Politics style history students. However, Professor Higonnet is a great man and teacher, and if you have the slightest interest in this subject matter, it would be worth taking this class to learn from him.
Professor Higonnet is brilliant, but you will only get out of this course as much as you put in. That being said, I recommend putting in the effort.
Stay in class for at least the first two weeks to determine if you'd like to take it.
This is a great class for people interested in learning about how individual events fit into a worldview of history. It is a completely discussion-based and paper-writing course, so make sure you're prepared for that.
This is a wonderful exploration of the incredible city that 19th century Paris was. The reading list is phenomenal, but heady. You'll do a lot of writing in the course - two pages a week and a long final paper - but should find it valuable. Professor Higonnet has a wealth of anecdotes, jokes, and wisdom to share which made class time quite enjoyable.
Wonderful reading list - you get to read seminar 19th-century French novels - and the weekly 2-page response papers are very helpful, especially when you start deciding upon a research topic. Very Hist-and-Lit-y. Professor Higonnet is a delight.
