Want to learn the difference between Plato and Aristotle, Marcus Aurelius and St. Augustine of Hippo?  This class will give you the foundational knowledge you lack about these great thinkers.  Prof. Hankins is great at explaining complex philosophies succinctly and intelligibly.
If you want to get a good overview of ancient philosophy and western intellectual history, this is the place to go.
This is a great way to fulfill your gen ed requirement or just to gain a better understanding of classical philosophy. Lectures were fine, and Professor Hankins peppers them with some hilarious analogies and metaphors. The reading isn't too bad, but some of the texts are more demanding than others. This is definitely a worthwhile course, if not just to understand other texts better.
the intricacies of ancient philosophers are fascinating, however their perspective on life is refreshing, unprecedented, and still truly applicable to considering life today
Lots of reading, but a good overview of a subject you should know about.
If you're at all interested in the ancient philosophers, this is the class to take - as of right now, the Phil department doesn't have a survey course on ancient philosophers that's not an intro class, and all upper level classes only focus on one or two thinkers. So for an in-depth survey, this is great (and although t's not straight philosophy, you get more historical context which is nice).
This is a class everyone should take. The material provides a good background for all of Western philosophy. If the first lecture does not overly excite you, keep in mind that Hankins lectures will grow on you. He is extremely knowledgeable and does a great job of being illustrative while concise in his presentations. I also found section to be very rewarding, as the material is naturally very conducive to discussion.
I took this because past Q comments have said there wasn't a ton of reading. I'm a slow reader and unfortunately don't have enough time to commit to a given class (especially a GenEd class) to get through more than a hundred pages a week. I found the amount of reading for this course still to be overwhelming. And it isn't the sort of course you can get by in without doing the reading. If you aren't prepared to seriously commit several hours a week to getting through the assigned readings, I would not recommend this course. Further, I assumed I would be interested in these great philosophers, but aside from their ethics I found their works to be largely irrelevant and uninteresting. This may sound like sacrilege given how influential these guys have been to the development of Western traditions, but I encourage anyone who thinks they're interested to research Plato and the like ahead of time to be aware of what they're getting into.
I definitely learned a lot but if you're interested in learning about philosophy, it might be better to take a class in the philosophy department where you can engage more with it. In this class, you were expected to just learn about and understand the philosophies rather than consider their strengths and weaknesses and discuss them. Lecture and section weren't very enjoyable so although the material is good to know, there are better ways to learn it.
Pretty solid ethical reasoning gen ed.  If you're like me and prefer history to philosophy, you will enjoy all the context provided in this course.  Light workload, readings that will make you feel exceptionally ivy league, and interesting discussion potential.
This is a good survey of classical literature and thought, presenting the material in a useful and comparative way. Moderate amount of reading.
Don't take this class just because it has no papers. It has a very low workload if you don't do all of the reading, but if you are someone who is not interested in useless, impractical, and dry high level philosophical material you should take a class that is slightly more interesting and practical and has a slightly greater workload. The professor tries, but lectures are boring and he doesn't manage to help us think about the material at all--he mostly just summarizes. This class would have been infinitely more palatable if they had focused on one or two philosophical works or philosophers, let us read smaller chunks of them every week (philosophy reading is SO dense!), and then actually focused on helping gain understanding and form opinions about the philosophies instead of just wanting us to memorize a whole bunch of facts about a ton of different philosophers. Pretty useless class overall, I'd say I got less out of this class than I did out of any other Harvard class I've taken
This is a fairly easy course with a light workload (one 300-word response paper a week) that nonetheless manages to cover a lot of important thinkers and events in ancient philosophy.
This is the quintessential Harvard course on the history of philosophy. If you want to learn more about those famous philosophers you somewhat touched upon in high school (i.e. Plato, Aristotle, Socrates, etc.) this is definitely the course for you. With 300-word response papers every week, you get a chance to really think succinctly about each philosopher and how you personally feel about each. I thought this course did a fantastic job of going over the great minds of the ancient world not only in a philosophical context but a historical way as well. Lectures are jam-packed with information (which may or may not be confusing) and weird cat jokes (always a good thing) but sections are extremely helpful despite the difficult topics.
If you're looking for a solid understanding of the development of the foundations of the Western intellectual tradition, this a useful class to take. Also, it's a rather painless Ethical Reasoning, since there are no papers, only short weekly responses, a midterm and a final. Readings can be good, but can also be annoying; lecture is actually important, and often covers stuff that's not in the reading. If it's a choice between doing the reading and listening in lecture, listen in lecture - that's where you get the exposition of the development of philosophy, a framework for understanding the reading; you will also often be able to answer at least one of the questions from the knowledge you glean from lecture alone, and the reading will usually take longer than 53 minutes. In short, if you're looking for a reasonably good Ethical Reasoning, or want a solid background in Greco-Roman philosophy, take this class! But Phil 7 might be better for the philosophy itself, even though it doesn't fulfill ER.
You know nothing about ancient philosophy? Want to know what those great thinkers like Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and St. Augustine were all about? What to know the story behind common terms such as "stoic", "platonic", and "eudaimonia"? Love just thinking about stuff?Then take this class!
One of those courses where you may feel lost for a while, but once you reach they end, you realize the incredibly detailed history you've covered.
Excellent course for expanding your knowledge about the basis of moden psyche.
If you are interested in Greco-Roman philosophy, take this course.  If not, do not.
I loved the course. A weekly response paper, and doable midterm and final. I'm glad that I took this course. Han Hsien was a great TF and discussion was always thought-provoking. I loved the set up of the course so much that even though I initially had no plan to, I'm considering taking part II (HIST 1301).
Materials are interesting but the reading is barely covered in lecture so not much is gained from the reading unfortunately. Only take this class if you are interested in the material because otherwise you will hate his class. Lecture is useful.
This course provided a well-taught and thorough introduction to ancient Greek and Roman philosophers. Coursework isn't difficult, and the readings can be overwhelming but are ultimately fascinating and not too hard to get through.
This is a superb Ethical Reasoning gen ed. There's a scary amount of reading, but the TFs were both super nice, Prof. Hankins is secretly hilarious if you're paying attention and is passionate and knowledgeable about the subject, and you learn a lot about different philosophies' takes on how to live a happy life and be a good person.
This is a great course for anyone who wants to know why we might think the way we do. It's the roots of western thought presented in a thorough but accessible way.
This is a great intro philosophy class.  You should know these names, and you know you won't download Plato on your kindle for pleasure, so you may as well take this class and be forced to read up.
Everyone should study the intellectual tradition of the West; everyone should read firsthand some major thinkers of the Western Canon; everyone should explore the alternatives to modern thought, namely the Ancients and the Christians.  This course covers all in one, and Professor Hankins does a good job in lecture of sorting each thinker out.
Take for a relatively pain-free ER experience. Lecture is dry, but the workload is pretty light. It's harder if you want to actually do all the readings (but if you actually want to do all the readings, maybe you find the readings easier?). Response papers are easy and the exams were fair (probably should make sure to put in time for the passage ids, but since they're only a small component of the exams...). What I found most frustrating about the class was that the most of the staff did not seem particularly invested in it. Maybe I would have been more invested if they had seemed more enthusiastic. But probably not.
Do the readings; lectures are boring but the notes are helpful; exams aren't too difficult.
Lots of reading along with weekly response papers. No papers in the course but two exams. You will come out of the class knowing the basic theories of major philosophers.
This class offers exposure to some of the most famous texts in ancient philosophical thought, so if that interests you you should consider taking it. However, the lectures can be somewhat tedious.
Great GenEd if you are looking for an Ethics fulfillment. No essays, just weekly page-long reading assignments. Definitely keep up with the reading. Lectures are a bit dull, but try to engage as you will learn a lot through them.
This is a good course to get acquainted with all those classic works of philosophy you've always meant to read but haven't - Plato's the Republic, Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics, Augustine's Confessions, etc. Workload is light (a 300-word response paper a week), section discussions are usually light and enjoyable, lectures are short and a little dry but manageable.
I took History 1300 because I wanted to learn something about classical philosophy at Harvard, and knock out a Gen Ed in the process. The readings are sometimes dense but often really interesting; there are a lot of them, but selectively picking out important parts is usually enough to understand the material. Prof. Hankins lectures well, and I thought the course was well structured. While this course cannot compare with the most memorable ones I have taken at Harvard, it certainly did what I wanted it to: a gap in my knowledge has been filled, and the things I learned are already making themselves relevant in my decision-making.
This class truly illuminated a very important part of history--knowing the basic ideas of Plato, Aristotle, and other ancient/hellenistic philosophers is very worth it. It is a very good guided introduction to ancient philosophy. I came into this class knowing nothing about Plato, the Epicureans, or the early Christians (for instance), and came out with a solid, basic understanding. It's not too much work (no papers), and the exams are nothing complicated. Some of the lectures, particularly on science, are quite confusing, but the material isn't the kind of thing that's easy to grasp in the first place. I really enjoyed taking this as a history class--with an emphasis on the ideas and their impact/importance to history.
You need to engage heavily with the readings, they are the course
This is an excellent class to take if you have an interest in the works that the course covers. The workload is light throughout the semester, but enough to keep you reading. I recommend this class for anyone who has an interest in intellectual history or in the great thinkers of antiquity. Plus, reading Plato and Aristotle seems SO Harvard
the readings are very interesting and you will learn a lot about the origins of western thought, but the professor's lectures can be boring at times
This course is definitely a great alternative to the generic ethical reasoning courses.
yeah, you want to know all this stuff and this is a painless and fun way to dotake the course, child
Covers a great deal of material, and concepts are not very well explained.
It is a very worthwhile course for anyone, but all the readings must be done in order to fully understand and appreciate the discussions and lectures.
Lecture materials are very well-organized, readings are excellent - do the readings and engage in section discussions, and you will learn so much!
This class is harder than it looks. The weekly readings are long and the midterm and final assume perfect knowledge of all the material covered. On the other hand, the lectures are quite good and you will come out of the class with essential knowledge about fundamental texts in the Western philosophical and scientific tradition, which is invaluable. All in all a great way to fulfill the gened. In all likelihood, I would take this class again.
This class, more than any other I took, will improve you as a person.
Take it if you are looking for a solid foundation in Platonic and Aristotelian thought. Some of the lectures in the first part of the semester are true gems, while you should not be disappointed if the second half is different.
This is a solid class to fill the ER requirement. I definitely appreciate my greater knowledge of western intellectual history, and am glad I was made to read the texts that we read in class. Lectures are not especially exciting, but this is not for lack of effort by Professor Hankins, who means well and whose jokes are criminally under-appreciated. Section seemed too large, and although Stuart was a good TF it was often unclear to me how much I had gained from section attendance.
If interested in learning about the different schools of ancient philosophy this is the class for you.
The take-away from the course is wonderful: it passes the Gen-Ed test in that you can use what you learned and read later in life or even later in a conversation with a friend or colleague.
This class is easy enough, and you can put as little into it as you want, but it feels like a slog.
This is a good course with engaging and fundamental texts. However, lecture is rather irrelevant to the functioning of the course and fails to fully address the philosophical texts examined in the class. Section is by far more enjoyable and engaging and the TF's do a wonderful job of leading students through the readings. Good class with great readings and sections, though lecture leaves much to be desired.
This class is great because ancient philosophers did not have the same type of rigid, logically sound philosophy we have today. But it is fascinating to see how their ideas influence one another, their respective city-states, and then emanated over time to influence areas like modern Christianity. Plus, you will now have a far better understanding of "Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure."
It was an okay class. You should only take it if you are interested in the material.
Great class--if you've wanted to read these texts or learn more about ancient philosophy you should definitely take this! It's much heavier on reading than on writing--writing assignments are only a page per week so that's nice.
This is great way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement: the reading list is terrific, the workload very reasonable, and the lectures engaging!
The readings are not necessary outside of skimming for quotes for the response papers.  The lecture notes are extremely helpful.
I honestly couldn't be happier that I decided to take this course. The course material is made up of works that every adult needs to read at some point in their lives, as they are the basis of Western thought and philosophy. The sections are great and the lectures are well-structured and informative.
I really enjoyed this course, and Professor Hankins is a great lecturer. Furthermore, the readings are great texts and I think having read them adds to ones intellectual horizons. If you want to do well in this class, be prepared to do the reading, which can sometimes take a while as Philosophy can be pretty abstract.
You'll come out with a much better understanding of the ideas of early Greek and Roman philosophers. Readings can be lengthy but completing all of them is not necessary to do the weekly discussion questions. Not having papers is also really nice. A really great way to knock out the ER Gen-Ed if you are at all interested in Greek philosophy.
Professor Hankins is a great lecturer and is very enthusiastic about the class. Anyone interested in the classics or in philosophy should enjoy this class.
It's a very good choice for ethical reasoning. You get to read Plato and Aristotle and gain an overall understanding of Greek philosophy. The weekly response papers are good for keeping everyone on top of readings and aren't too bad.
This class is extremely difficult--not in the assignments (it is only one 300 word response paper per week) but in content. It requires reading original texts of Pre-Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Lucretius, Epitectus, Iamblichus, Cicero, Augustine, and Boethius, which can be unwieldy at times. Nevertheless, the class is not impossible (I think I can say that as a non-humanities major who managed to do well in the end). My advice would be to seriously take notes on the books you read. Additionally, write down everything from section because the questions asked could pop up as essay questions on the final exam. I definitely recommend this class if you want to learn what you think about life and how others before you have approached the same questions: what is the meaning of life? what is the best way to live life? etc.
The material covered by this class is very interesting and the readings aren't bad. It is interesting to learn about the figures and movements that formed the foundations of western thought. The expectations for this class are very realistic and it is manageable as a gened. The lectures are informative and spiced up by Hankin's side comments. The sections are good for reinforcing your understanding of the readings but the reduction of your grade for being late to section is annoying.
Basically run like a philosophy course, but in the history department
This course is fairly easy; weekly response papers, one midterm & final, no essays. That said, it is not particularly enjoyable. Lectures rehash what is relayed in the main text for the course, and section does the same. There is no real reward to reading the ancient texts for class. Of course, reading the texts is rewarding, but the class does little to deepen appreciation for them.
Not a difficult class, and after studying for the final, I realized I learned a significant amount about different philosophical traditions and their main ideas. This is first and foremost a history of philosophy course, not a philosophy course. We discussed how philosophers were similar and different and influenced each other. We did not learn how to write philosophical papers or generate our own opinions regarding their metaphysical/ethical/etc. ideas. Response papers each week forced us to engage with each work, and the amount of reading was absolutely manageable! Worth taking for the History's pre-modern and ER requirements.
This course was a great overview to Greco-Roman philosophy and its most influential thinkers. I took this class mainly because it was a gen-ed (ethical reason). The workload is very very doable: one response paper a week answering two questions on readings, a midterm, and a final. No papers! The readings, however, were often quite dense and hard to get through. Overall, this class was pretty good.
This is a phenomenal course. The lectures are okay, but the readings are life-changing. Seriously, they will change the way you view everything -- progression of ideas, growth in society, religion, civilization, school, thinking, and your purpose in the world. You probably don't need to do the readings to get an A as the course materials are great, but if you put effort into the readings (which aren't really that difficult) your historical, academic, scientific, and societal perspectives will radically expand. These readings teach you how philosophy searches for truth and more importantly how these definition of truth are tied to the historical context. The TFs are great and passionate as well, and section discussions are actually fascinating. Note that I am not a humanities concentrators and do not spend my time philosophizing or reading classical books. I've never taken a philosophy or history course and concentrate in math, but have now been converted to a passionate reader of history and philosophy. Taking the course will reveal to you your insignificance (both on a historical and natural level), but will also show you how this insignificance can lead to the highest levels of happiness. I believe this idea is the fundamental concept behind all religion and philosophy and therefore has played a fundamental role in creating our society. Taking this course will allow you to glean these ideas from those who first wrote them. You must do it. Also, it's a pretty easy course with low workload. What more can you ask for?
This is a class that surveys the highlights of early Western thought, with which everyone should be familiar.  This is the sort of class that should be required of every Harvard freshman.
A relatively easy survey of ancient Greek and Roman philosophy. Not terribly rigorous as a philosophy class, but it's nice to have the historical context.
only take it if you like the subject matter.  hankins is not the most engaging lecturer.
The pace is quick, and you have to internalize the material. This is a broad overview course. Do not expect to go into depth into any philosopher. You will gain exposure, and you can take more specialized courses in the future. However, the professor and TF's are open to explore the issues deeper if you make the effort!
if you don't love philosophy, don't take this class.if you need an ethical reasoning, don't take this class.if you think this has anything to do with history, don't take this class.if you want to enjoy your classes, don't take this class.
This is a really great course to take--excellent way to take your Ethical Reasoning gen ed if you're not a philosophy person.
This is an awesome chance to read about these philosophical schools. I feel like there was a big gap in my knowledge of the world I lived in (academic institution) that this course filled. No matter how hard the readings appear, the course is definitely doable
Gives you a solid, standard overview of fundamental ancient thinkers in Western Tradition. Nothing radical, but provides basis for other courses, personal investigation into specific topics.
You need to want to read ancient philosophy to enjoy this course. If so, you'll get a lot out of it. If not, you'll be bored.
The prof is great and the lectures are really interesting. Lecture notes so helpful!
This is the best survey course on ancient philosophy that you will find at Harvard!
Take History 1300. If you want to escape the usual biased gender studies of history and really engage with the foundational texts of Western Civilization, give James Hankins a chance. The TFs are trustworthy and care about the material. The lectures are engaging and give a very good overview of material than any academic should know. The reading is heavy, but it is manageable, and well worth it. Even if you don't do the reading, you will still learn plenty.
If you've ever felt that the books on this syllabus were "things you should probably get around to reading at some point," use this class as an excuse and realize just how right you were about needing to read them.
Grading is fair but realize that the weekly reading load is quite high (although this is coming from an eco major, so a gov or classics major might not find the reading load too substantial)
Excellent course material, highly enjoyed reading and discussing the content.
Pretty painless way to fulfill a gen ed while reading some great books.
GREAT course to take for your Ethical Gen-Ed- i thought it was really entertaining and interesting, with great section leaders and definitely a reasonable/manageable workload (tending towards the lighter side). I would definitely recommend it if you're looking to fill that Gen-Ed!
This a good Gen Ed with solid readings that demands thoughtfulness without punishing you for having little background in the area. Definitely a good option. If you want to read the books, take it.
Good material to learn, but the lectures are uninspiring. Also, the pace is such that it's hard to understand who is saying what.
This is a really great course to take, especially for ethical reasoning. You get a great foundation in the important works of Plato, Aristotle, etc., and it's a very moderate and manageable workload. Hankins is a very good lecturer, and you should get Michael as your TF--he's a great discussion leader.
This was one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard. Not always the most organized, but I learned so much from it!
Some historical reading/philosophy background would be helpful, but I've never taken a philosophy class, went to an ok high school, and was ok. Not great, but ok. If you're a slow reader plan out when you'll do readings and break them up. The lectures are boring, but you should go. Get Michael as a tf. Now he's goingto be oversubscribed. I don't lpknow Gladden so can't say.
A great class... Beware. You will want to just read the texts and be done with it.  Don't give in.  If I could go back, I would read the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy for every single text we read alongside the text (or even before reading the text). It helps put sometimes ridiculous prose into important context.  Also, I would make a chart of topics like "creation of the world, what makes knowledge, the soul, the gods or God, physics, happiness, evil, the goal of life, how to achieve it, materiality/immateriality of souls, etc." So that you can create easily comparable documents as you go.  Also, don't worry about taking extensive notes. I often just write down everything but never used it once.  The lecture handouts (with some writing atop if necessary/critical point is made) should be sufficient.  Response papers are deceptive and take a lot to master. Do them swiftly and the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (that the course recommends) is YOUR BEST FRIEND.
If you're interested in the Western philosophical tradition, this is an incredible, thorough, and accessible course.
This course is a great way to learn about ancient philosophy if you have never studied it before.  But be prepared to not understand a lot of it.
This is the kind of course that you walk out of feeling like you've read the things that make you a better citizen and a more educated human being. Hankins' lectures are dry and sometimes arcane, but I think it's still worth it. Just promise me that you'll DO THE READING -- there is no way that this course will be worthwhile if you don't take the time to do the reading. They don't assign all that much, and the vast majority of it is fascinating, if you get excited about it.
This is the best class I've ever taken. Ever. It gives one the overview of the canon of classical education-- the thought that has underpinned of western civilization. Hankins is unbelievable. This is not to be missed!
The material is really difficult but rewarding. This is one of those classes that you'll be happy you took after you graduate.
To me, this is the ideal of a Gen Ed class: Challenging enough that you learn a lot, and get a solid exposure to important works of literature (Plato's Republic, St. Augustine's Confessions, etc), but easy enough that it's not intimidating, and can be taken alongside other challenging classes.
It was fine.
Professor Hankins is a great lecturer so go to class
This is one of the best survey courses I've taken at Harvard. It gives you a totally comprehensive sense of greco-roman thought, without getting too bogged down in the technicalities of philosophical argument. The structure as an Intellectual History course is excellent and highly recommended for anyone interested filling their Gen-Ed or Core. Professor Hankins gives very thorough lectures, and the section was one of the best I've had at Harvard in 4 years.
This course was well taught, I think: the professor is a good lecturer, and Michael is a strong TF. Having said that, I found the content of the course to be entirely uninspiring. I never got a handle on why I should care - at all - about ancient history of ideas. It's possible that this points to a shortcoming of the teaching staff in that I didn't feel that the material was at all relevant to me. However, I know several class mates enjoyed the class a lot.
This is a fine class.  These are great thinkers to have read, but they may be more satisfying to study in a philosophy class.  Hankins is clearly very knowledgeable but lectures are often not that engaging.  Also, there is very little attention paid to moral reasoning or philosophy, despite its classification as a moral reasoning class.
It's a survey class that covers a broad spectrum of thought over a span of many centuries. So, as is to be expected of a history course, it provides solid summary knowledge of various philosophies from a historical perspective, without delving deeply into any arguments in particular.
This is a PHILOSOPHY course and not a history course. Although you are given some historical context, this course is based entirely on understanding the schools of thought in the ancient west. If you are looking for more history (e.g. what were the conditions of the time that caused philosophers to think the way they did, stories about the philosophers in their life, etc.) this is not the course for it.
Take it.
Somewhat dry readings full of strange proto-science, but the core ideas are really worthwhile. Grading isn't too harsh, don't worry about catching everything in the lectures.
A very good introduction to the foundation of much of the thought in our society.  The lectures on Christianity are excellent.  Not too much work, and a really great reading list.
The class covers a lot of philosophers, but none particularly in depth. It provides a fairly good overview of trends in ancient philosophy, but I wouldn't say I came away with a deep understanding of any particular school. This is useful in its own right, though.
Take it, especially if Michael Tworek is still the TA.
Solid course that will give you a good background in classical history. Pretty accessible even for people who don't have a background in intellectual history or philosophy.
Take it! You don't want to graduate from Harvard without knowing this stuff.
Take this class only if you're interested in the material. IT will go into very very detailed descriptions of different ethical and metaphysical accounts. Be aware that we sidetrack political theory. but definitely a very fun class, great sections, and lots of fun
This is a tremendous survey of the origins of Western thought and the Western tradition.  The readings I did for this course have appeared in some form or another in my three other classes this semester, all of which are in different departments.  Hankins is an excellent lecturer and scholar, and Tworek is a great TF.  Definitely the best course I've taken at Harvard.
This is a great course if you're interested in reading these Greek & Roman philosophers, but don't take it if you're not going to do the reading!  And if you already think the ancient philosophers are outdated and irrelevant, I'm not sure this course will actively convince you otherwise (though you're wrong!). Professor Hankins is a masterful lecturer; he both gives historical context and helps to explicate the philosophers' ideas.  I'd say about a third of what I learned came straight from him, not the texts.   But he also throws in awkward comments about Greek sex from time to time, so you have to be okay with that.
I would not recommend this course for students unless they have a real interest in the pre-modern texts on the syllabus.  The material and lectures would probably seem dry otherwise.
You should probably not take this course, unless you really feel comfortable interpreting loads of ancient texts all on your own, with little help from lecture.
Professor Hankins is a gem, and you should take this for his lectures alone.
I'm conflicted about this class.  On one hand, it seems like one of the best ways to get really important foundational information.  On the other hand, there are definitely major flaws in terms of the disconnect between day to day class and expectations.  Also be warned, the conduct of the professor in class may make you uncomfortable.
