Professor Nichols should be the future of the Harvard history department, and his classes are always phenomenal. Do you want to be able to explain why the US economy exists the way it does, how all the components of the US economy have interacted over time, and what causes and how to predict financial crises? Take this class. I cannot stress enough how important it is for the history department to invest itself in professors like Shaun Nichols who understand that the content and quality of your arguments matter more than their political bend, and who teach classes with real world applications. This is how history should be at Harvard.
This course is a great opportunity to analyze author perspectives and styles rigorously and in-depth, something that doesn't happen very often in History seminars. It's not a course for people mainly interested in learning the history of American recessions. Take it for the mind-blowing discussions about the structure of capitalism, but be prepared for the prompts to focus on authors' views about the structure of capitalism. People who are looking for an economic history course may find that this isn't the same thing.
Professor Nichols is a wonderful professor who brings both enthusiasm for teaching and expertise in economic history.  If you have any interest in economics or finance this is a wonderful way to ground discourse around more recent crises by placing them in historical context.  The workload is reasonable and Professor Nichols is very available to provide support for the written assignments.
The course provides a remarkably interdisciplinary and in-depth study of a broad range of sources from multiple perspectives. The course covers economic theory (which I loved), as well as historical accounts (of course), cultural studies, and contemporary commentary. Some discussion was difficult to engage in due to my limited background knowledge of certain crises and periods. Though, the course provides a beautifully messy view of economic crises, as it avoids simplistic accounts and points dramatically differing accounts into dialogue with one another. While at times unsettling, the course provides a more productive analysis of crisis than most other Harvard courses, so I would strongly recommend.
I wish I would have taken this class earlier in my college career-- it would have helped me become a better writer and thinker.
Shaun is an amazing teacher, though he may not hand out amazing grades he clearly puts a lot of thought into the course and conducts great sections. If you are a history concentrator make sure to take one of his courses and you'll understand the comment.
The readings will prepare you both for class and the papers, so do them! Prof. Nichols will give back as much as you give on your papers.
A really interesting course that surveys American history through the vantage point of crisis. Very interdisciplinary, though a slight emphasis on finance/economics I found. Sometimes the discussions/readings were a bit inaccessible if you weren't well-versed in financial/economic terms and theories.
If you want to be challenged, change your perceptions and previous thoughts on economic crises as well as better your writing definitely take it!Be ready to work hard but also grow a lot as Prof. Nichols is absolutely incredible and will push you out of the comfort zone to think, write and listen (to your classmates) better.
This is an ambitious course for ambitious students. The workload is quite high, and the payoff is sometimes hard to grasp. I think many students will find the course fascinating and engaging. Others may leave more confused than they were when they began. If you do take the course, I would recommend the research track.
