This is an excellent class to obtain background in international relations and specifically Soviet/US Cold War foreign policy. Professor Plokhii is a very intelligent teacher who is very willing and able to offer help/advise to students.
The class requires a lot of reading, but is worth the effort.
Good discussion of the Cold War from an international relations perspective with a great use of sources
The readings are great, worth reading even if you're not in the course.
This is a very fun class which has a different insight into international history and is worth taking. You get out of it what you put in, in terms of speaking in class and researching the final paper.
Anyone interested in and passionate about the Cold War should take this class- you will learn a lot whether you come in with a lot of prior knowledge or are looking for an overview of the entire Cold War period. Be forewarned, however, that you will be expected to do a lot of background reading and studying on your own if you are not very familiar with the events surround the summit meetings, in order to contribute meaningfully to discussion.
I recommend this class to anyone interested in a fascinating subject matter with a terrific professor. You cannot go wrong with this class.
A great class if you're interested in learning Cold War history.  The course is very focused in that it is designed around a series of summits - but in studying the summits, students get a broad view of Cold War history as well.
This is a unique and fantastic history course. The Professor is fantastic and can generate enthusiasm and appreciation for the source material in his very subtle and calm way. I truly enjoyed this course and its different take on the Cold War and the role of summits. To be honest, the fact that it was half graduate students, probably changed the nature of the course. I learned as much from them as I did from the Professor. This was a great class that had great people and gave you a ton of flexibility to write your final paper on any subject you wish, so long as it was Cold War related. I really enjoyed this course, especially the fact that it does not assign reading when you are working on your final paper in the last 3 weeks of the course. This allows you to actually work on your paper, making your end of the semester much less stressful, and actually use class time to get feedback on your paper through your presentation. Take the course, you will not regret it.
