This is one of the best classes that you can take at Harvard. If you have a proper economics/history background, this class is extremely rewarding. You'll get to know two of Harvard's best professors in a personal classroom environment.
The readings are long and dry
This is one of the best opportunities to engage with two of the best professors at Harvard and 20 of their brightest acolytes. While not the easiest class, it is well worth the effort.
This class is fantastic. The reading is fascinating and the professors complement each other well. The material is very balanced, with many of the readings for a given day arguing different sides. The course does a pretty good job of teaching you how to think like a historian.
Do not take this course just because you are interested in economic history unless you are willing to do an immense amount of reading.  If you are not knowledgeable about European history, you will be at an extreme disadvantage and you should expect to work 5X as hard.
A great chance to work with two amazing professors in a more personal setting.
Great class, material is difficult. Do not undertake unless you are very serious and have a background in economics and financial history.
Quite simply the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. Inspirational professors, superb class participation, dynamic discussions and an overflow of enthusiasm from all who took part.
This course is so important as a part of general education and learning about the world we live in today.  Professors Ferguson and Maier facilitate discussions that shed light on the most important events in history, up to today.
Best class at Harvard. Two star professors, amazing discussions, good group of students.
Take this course if you can
This course is amazing!
This is a good course because you engage with two of Harvard's best professors. However, don't be fooled by this opportunity -- the reading is dense, dry and there is a lot. You should have a genuine interest/background in financial history/economy/global events in order to effectively participate.
Be prepared for lots of reading.
If you're at all thinking about economic history then you really should take this course. The class is heavy on financial history, but it is very accessible regardless of background in economics. Overall, this class is what Harvard is about: getting to not only sit in on a discussion guided by two superstar professors, Niall Ferguson and Charles Maier, but being able to bounce your own ideas about the material off of them.
It's a great course! You will never see contemporary events the same way but don't think that because it's a "history class" the discussion won't get technical. Be ready to do a lot of readings (and some not very stimulating).
This class has moved in the direction of financial history but even if that isn't your thing, it is well worth taking. Prof Maier and Prof Ferguson are both fantastic teachers. It was let down somewhat this year by the quality of student inputs, but that is probably anomalous.
Good discussion, dense readings, course should be a little smaller
Take this class.
The quality of this course will depend mostly on the other people who take it. Maier and Ferguson do a good job of animating discussion, but if the class does not have a core of motivated people, apathy can creep in.
it's an amazing class which sharpens your background in the field of (economic) history. the class is highly interactive. if you are interested in history and economics, you should definitely take this class!
You will not be disappointed with this course. Definitely freshen up on your macroeconomics if you are not an Econ major. The readings and discussions are fantastic.
Ferguson and Maier are both awesome professors--sharp, knowledgeable, approachable-- and the course material is fascinating. Unfortunately this year enrollment was so high (27) that what was supposed to be a seminar devolved more into a few people talking a lot and some not getting the chance to talk at all-- hopefully in future iterations the course will be capped at say 15.
Niall and Maier are amazing there's no two ways around it but I wouldnt take this class unless you want to read A LOT about each week's subject and actually be involved in the discussion, which is likely to be lead by about four people each week who think they're the smartest person they've ever met. However, that being said it was an interesting class, and a unique opportunity to interact with these two minds each week of a semester.
You will be required to read a lot but it is a fun class. You learn about the history of finance, you read the most relevant historical-financial work, and Prof. Ferguson and Prof. Maier work well together.
Great class if you are motivated enough to do the readings (which can be long). If not you might not get that much out of the class, though the written assignments are very manageable.
This course is incredible.  To learn economic history from two giants in the field is an opportunity you cannot pass up.
Great class led by first-in-class professors who complement each other well. Both Ferguson and Maier rank among the best-humored at Harvard, and discussing financial history with them for 2 hrs/week is a privilege. Enroll and don't look back.
Please go through the syllabus in great detail before you commit yourself to taking this course. Also, be sure to have sufficient background in modern history as the other students in the class are mostly seniors and graduate students. Don't take it as a Freshman or a Sophomore and be sure to have taken a few history classes before taking this course. Also, do not take it if you want to hear Prof. Ferguson or Prof. Maier lecture as they serve the role of facilitators of discussion as opposed to lecturers.
Excellent minds at work, but active participation and detailed study of the readings probably necessary.
