Good way to fulfill a Hist Core requirement without bitching out and taking something fluffy. This is real stuff that people should know about.
These are some of the books you definitely want to read before graduation. Prof Hankins does a great job of exploring the relevance and the historical quirks of these timeless thinkers.
This is an excellent course for students of history, philosophy, and Social Studies; Intellectual history is at the margins of these disciplines, and provides great insight into each of them. Hankins is an incredible lecturer, Michael is a wonderful TF  especially if you make the effort to meet with him during office hours, and the course is challenging without being overwhelming. This course is manageable for students with little experience in history and philosophy, but should be helpful even to students with considerable background.
This is a fantastic class, but it is a lot of reading and a lot of information being thrown at you. The professor is occasionally hard to follow but clearly incredibly knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the material. Just make sure you stay on top of things (and go to lecture!) or this class will overwhelm you, but it's a great class and very much worth taking.
This is a great course; interesting material and an engaging teaching staff leaves you with serious knowledge.
This is a great way to read and understand some really important thinkers! Take it!
This is a must-take course for really anyone. I think this material is so important to know for any field.
It was really interesting and gives you the discourse to discuss philosophers intelligently, but lectures are a bit dry (not much of a reason to go if you read the handouts online) and its important to remember that this is a HISTORY course so you'll mostly be discussing the intellectual foundation of philosophical movements rather than the ideas themselves.
Be prepared to do the work and stay on top of it
This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. It is a great way to learn about some of the greatest philosophers in Western history, and the professor is amazing!
Take it. If you shop it and the first few lectures seem boring, don't be scared. Hankins is insanely knowledgeable and keeps the class loose, and will grow on you a lot. The course is low stress and runs through a selection of works that are surprisingly and consistently fascinating.
You only get out as much as you put in, but its totally worth it. It will revolutionize your understanding of Western philosophy.
Excellent class, either as an introduction to Intellectual History, as a gen ed, or as an unusual and stimulating elective in which you read essential thinkers. Professor Hankins is deeply committed to teaching and Michael was a phenomenal TF. The visit to Houghton alone justifies taking the class. It is, however, extremely easy, almost too much so at times.
Very enjoyable course if you have some interest in Medieval history.
You gotta read this shit and know these mofos. This class is an entertaining and efficient way to do it.
Take it if you have some history background and like the subject matter.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard so far. It has changed my intellectual perspective and outlook on the world more than any other class I have taken. After the two-semester series, you will have read 22 of the most pertinent works of philosophy, and you will have gained a concise yet coherent understanding of the evolution of thought and philosophy during the two millenia. My biggest complaint is that professor Hankins does not offer a third part that explores modern thought!! Take His1300 beforehand, if you can.
This course has given me tools of understanding which I know I'm going to use in many other courses and in daily life. It is extremely worth your time. Professor Hankins is a really engaging lecturer.
This is an incredible class if you want exposure to some of the major themes of Western Philosophy.
The lectures can feel a bit dry, but at the end of the day, the class teaches really valuable material about Western thought.  The reading list is incredible.
Incredibly interesting course. highly recommended.
This is the sort of course you need to take at Harvard.  It covers a wide range of great thinkers, and Prof. Hankins is very good and explaining their complex philosophical ideas.  Do not miss this opportunity!
Attend for exemplary lectures.
The class material is fascinating, and though the lectures are dense, the professor is accessible and you will learn as much as you put into the class.  (Un)fortunately there are only response papers, a midterm, and a final.
I enjoyed reading the authors in this course, but it can be tough to differentiate between them, especially without a solid background in the history of the time period.
This is a fantastic course that will give you a broad overview of pre-modern to early modern philosophy. It is very fast-paced, so make sure to keep up on your reading. But you will learn a lot. James Hankins is a fantastic lecturer, and he is more than willing to talk with any undergrad about their ideas or interpretations.
This is an absolute gem of a course.  Actually learn about a ton of influential/famous thinkers and their works in a historical context (Thomas Aquinas, More, Descartes, Spinoza, Locke, etc), while taking on a totally manageable workload.
Take this class! The lectures are phenomenal, and the readings tough but worth it.  I learned so much, and feel like I'm walking away from this class a changed person, with a new awareness of the limitations of my own modes of thought.  This is probably the best class I've taken at Harvard; I only wish I could have taken it sooner.
This class is pretty good, be warned though that lecture can sometimes be a bit dull.
This is a great class. Professor Hankins is a great lecturer and he makes the material very interesting. I took this class as an easy gen-ed, and I'm glad I did. The class was enjoyable and I actually wanted to go to every lecture (even though it's not really required). There's a lot of reading, but you don't really have to do it all in order to do the response papers (but it's all interesting reads and I'd recommend doing the readings). The only thing that stops this from being a really interesting and also really easy gen-ed is how the grades are parsed out. The midterm (30%) and the final (40%) account for 70% of your entire semester grade... and that's not fun. Even though they weren't necessarily that difficult, it was still stressful. Other than that, the response papers are very short and easy, and the sections aren't boring. I'd recommend this class.
This class is a must take for anyone interested in learning about the Western tradition. Hankins's lectures are excellent -- so much information. His lecturing style grows on you, so don't be turned off if he seems boring during the first lecture. Stick with the class and you won't regret it.
This isn't the most fun or interesting class, but you'll learn a great deal about western philosophy, read a lot of famous works, and become more well rounded.
I took this course to get a basic intro to philosophy and to enjoy the great reading list. The historical focus of the course was more to my interest than the actual philosophy, so it was fine by me that we didn't go into /great/ depth into each philosopher's ideas.
A great survey of important thinkers. An important topic in a time of the primacy of "science" and the devaluation of historic thought.
Listen up. Yeah, you. You've heard of writers such as Aquinas, Locke, Hobbes etc, and you may have read them in high school on some superficial level. However, you did not have the badass formerly known as James Hankins as your professor, who is quite possibly the smartest professor I have encountered at Harvard. While his lectures may be dry at times, and he may be less than politically correct on occasion, his intelligence and passion for these works shines through and will make you chuckle. He is also the only professor to have ever come to one of my section discussions, so shout out to that dedication. The course isn't too difficult; the weekly response papers are manageable if you take the time to sit down and plow through around 80-120 pages each week. My section leader Han Hsien was very kind and encouraged discussion. I honestly am not sure what grade I will get in this class, but if you're someone willing to stretch yourself and take a class like this who really cares (don't worry you will still get a fine grade). Take this class. Don't be lame.
This has been a great overview course and it is manageable for people who have not taken history or philosophy in college. It is a great way to gain a better understanding of the developments of western intellectual history between the 12th-17th century and helps you see how different aspects of modern thought came into being at various points in history.
The reading list is incredible, but you will struggle to get to lecture. Hankins is funny and obviously eminently knowledgeable, but he can be quite boring.
This is a fun class if you want to learn about philosophy and the history behind it. The weekly papers are nice so the work is evenly distributed, so it never feels like a burden.
This class was very interesting. It was really awesome to learn where the logics that defined the thinkers I read in Social Studies 10 came from. I now feel like I have a pretty solid grasp on the history of Western thought, and I am prepared to critique it. The course was very structured, which was nice. Hankins' lectures were engaging, informative, and very witty. The workload and reading load was very manageable  it all seemed very intentionally chosen, not overwhelming. Departmental gen-eds are the way to go.
This class will give you an amazing understanding of the broad themes of modern thought, and how they arose from medieval scholasticism. Take it; it's great.
The final counts for way too much.
If you need to fulfil CB, but really aren't comfortable with/don't have time for big papers, this class is for you. Weekly 300 word response papers, a midterm, and a final. If you have an interest in the subject matter, then definitely take this class.
Looking to learn something that matters at Harvard, faced with a choice between myriad courses that treat subjects ranging from the willfully obscure to the unselfconsciously ridiculous?  Look no further: take this course for a whirlwind tour of the ideas that shape the thinking of all the people around you every day -- without them even knowing it.
This class was really interesting. The readings were hard, but otherwise it wasn't a lot of work. It made you understand how society became 'modern' and it forced you to read a wide section of key thinkers that contributed to this development. Awesome class.
A fantastic Gen Ed. I took this class as a STEM concentrator that wanted to get more out of my liberal arts education, and this class guided me through some of greatest thinkers in Western history. The workload was steady and very manageable, the readings interesting (although the earlier ones might be a little dry), the sections engaging, and the lectures cohesive. One caution: there's a lot of theology, so that could be a plus or a minus depending on where you're coming from.
Really good course, and one of the most enriching ways to fulfill CB. Prof. Hankins is brilliant and the reading will change the way that you think about history and life in general. Be ready for some dense stuff (i.e. Medieval proofs of the existence of God) though.
This is a good way to fulfill the premodern course requirement if you're a History concentrator. Professor Hankins is nice and although lecture can get a bit dry, he has a sense of humor and clearly cares a lot about undergrads and the quality of the course (he makes a point of going to each section at least once and then also even shows up at the start of the final to answer questions, which apparently all faculty are supposed to do, although of course most don't). You can get away with not doing a lot of the reading, but if you do they are interesting (and leaving college with a familiarity of Hobbes and such is probably good). Exams were very fair.
If you want a relatively undemanding class that has pretty clear expectations to fulfill the history department or gen ed requirement--especially within a busy schedule--take this class. I think you maybe get out of it what you put in. So if you're really interested in the material, it could be amazing for you. If you're not, you can get by without spending a ton of time on it.
Hankins is kind of a legend. However, his lectures are interesting, but can be a little dry. He also has a tendency to ramble. The good thing is you can somewhat get away with not doing the readings, but it won't be as rewarding. Grading is easy depending on the TF
Good class; Professor Hankins gives very interesting lectures.  They are really the heart of the course, so I encourage anyone taking it to go to them.  After all, he is the world's leading expert on this subject.  A lot of the learning/digesting of Prof. Hankins's material, as well as the analysis of the text, takes place in section.  If you have a good TF like I did, this one hour period every week will be invaluable.  The course itself doesn't require that much work (just reading + 300 words a week), but I felt like I got a lot out of it.  Great way to satisfy Culture and Belief, as well as Study of the Past.
This is a cool course--you'll learn a lot.
If you want to get a lot out of a gen-ed, including very useful and thought-provoking philosophical ideas - TAKE THIS COURSE! The lectures that Prof. Hankins gives are amazing, and he is so wonderful at distilling complex ideas in ways that are at once powerful and simple to understand. However, it does come with relatively more work than some others, and is one of those classes that doing the readings also makes the course much more rewarding and enjoyable.
This is a fantastic course that gives you great insight into the philosophical past of western civilization.
Important foundational knowledge for students from any concentration.
A great class to help you understand why we (in the West) hold many of the philosophical beliefs we do, and to understand Western thought in its historical context. Prof Hankins was a great lecturer and always made things interesting.
This class will teach you a lot. The readings are, for the most part, fascinating, and Professor Hankins does an amazing job at synthesizing them and putting them in context. There is a lot of work, but it is so rewarding to look back on the semester and realize you've learned so much. You will actually have fun on the final.
This class is really solid. You get to read the great thinkers and works over 500 years and watch them go from monastic traditions to modern times. The workload is pretty small, but you get to learn many interesting stories and philosophical concepts.
This is a great way to cover all of the great books and philosophers that everyone should read. Lectures aren't very engaging but are a bit of a necessary evil, especially since some of the reading is dense and hard to understand on your first going-over. Definitely worth taking.
a lot of reading but well worth it to get a general grounding on the western intellectual canon
