This course provides a rich yet accessible introduction to the history of the medieval and early modern Ottoman polity, situating important conjunctures and patterns of change within the context of broader global and regional phenomena.
This course is not your typical harvard course. The professor is very engaging and cares about his students very deeply. He has an extreme amount of experience with the topic and is truly the leading academic in his field.
The Professor is very enthusiastic and knowledgeable about the subject. He makes the lectures interesting and fun for students.
Definitely consider taking this course if you like the Professor's personality. The first couple of sessions are very indicative of what the rest of the course will be like. Some of the reading is a bit dry, but simply skimming them will give all the information needed.
Ottoman History is a very interesting course!  I did not know anything about the subject going into the course and managed just fine with the material.  Professor Kafadar is a very nice guy and is fun and engaging to listen to; lectures are more of stories with him than lecturing with a powerpoint.  As long as that style sounds appealing, you will enjoy this course!
Please continue to do the reading. It might get boring at times, but you gain a lot out of it and since the exams are take home you don't constantly have to keep reading last minute if you know what the sources are about.
This course is very interesting and the professor is extraordinarily passionate and knowledgable. Take this class!
Great introduction to Ottoman history with many opportunities to ask the larger questions about world history.
The class is very interesting, but not structured at all.
It is unstructured and fairly disorganized, but taught by a brilliant professor, so if you're willing to over look it (or have some background that can act as a framework), then you will likely enjoy the course.
Kafadar is a wonderful lecturer -- engaging, and able to communicate very subtle ideas and distinctions with ease.
It's a really great class. Professor Kafadar is a great lecturer and has some great anecdotes. If you have any interest in the Ottoman empire, take it!! It is not the most organized course so if you're one who likes to have the entire semester outlined at the beginning of the year, you won't find that in this course. Nevertheless, it's great and I loved it!
Kafadar is very entertaining and the subject matter is just as interesting as well. But the course tails off after spring break.
Great class, take it for the professor! But the sections are somewhat pointless.
Great teacher!
Lecture is the most important part of this course.
You really have to be interested in the Ottoman Empire to take this, and have a lot of initiative--hard to stay on top of things just by going to lecture.
Prof. Kafadar is one of the best professors at Harvard. He's so engaging he can make anyone love Ottoman history, even if they had no prior knowledge of the topic. I'm so glad I took this course.
This is really a class to enjoy; engaging, wonderfully tangential lectures that are really the kind of thing I imagine university is for, thought-provoking reading, but not dragging you down with response papers or other stuff.
While most "non-western" history classes have the appearance of being light on substance and lacking scholarly merit, this course provides a thorough introduction to Ottoman history, as well as the history of the Middle East, during the time period studied. The requirements are reasonable and the professor is very dynamic.
Very lively course, lots of fun and you'll learn a lot!
Even if you are not at all interested in Ottoman History, Professor Kafadar has the ability to MAKE you fall in love with it. He is truly in a league of his own as a professor and a historian. I would very highly recommend this class.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard.  Fantastic professor, fantastic lectures, fantastically interesting material.  Just fantastic.
This is a great class, especially if you're into Ottoman and Middle Eastern history. Professor Kafadar is enthusiastic, accessible, and extremely knowledgeable.
I love the flexibility of the class and the way that assignments are structured and if you do the readings, you'll find that you learn a lot about medieval history (about the ottomans AND in general). There's about 140 pages of reading per week, which if you're taking it for elective credit, may be more than you want.
Go to all the classes and you will do fine
Professor's Kafadar's uniquely global perspective on Ottoman history alone is worth the price of admission.
Professor Kafadar is really great, and the class is interesting and relatively painless (though a little bit disorganized)
Lectures are disorganized, but Professor Kafadar is approachable and happy to answer questions.
Not enough evaluations throughout the semester; fun lectures, but disjointed sections; interesting readings.
This course is a gem for those interested in European or Middle Eastern history from 1000-1700. It is a glorious combination of curious tales, interpretative analyses, and pattern recognition of all the people and events that populated this time period. Although the Ottoman is the focus, the Byzantines, the Safavids, Persia, Habsbrugs, Holy Roman Empire, China, and Seljuks among others are all examined to show just how incredibly globalized the world was even that many thousand years ago!
The professor is wonderful, but I thought the class was a little scattered.
The course is interesting simply because of its subject matter. You get to learn about a non-Western empire that is still so closely related to the West and its history. Furthermore, prof. Kafadar is an amazing individual, and so is Meredith, the section leader.
Go to the cooking sections.  They are really fun and give you a nice insight into Ottoman culture that you can't get from books. The experience of cooking Ottoman food is one that you will not get in another class, and it is both informative and a lot of fun.
Prof. Kafadar is an incredible lecturer. He simply knows everything. His classes are interesting and cover a large amount of material. The readings are short enough and understandable enough to never seem overwhelming. Section was very well run. The take-home exams were fair. It is a fantastic course that everyone with any interest in the Ottoman Empire should take, regardless of background.
This class is such a pleasant experience-- lectures are the best part and are the primary source of the exam material. Whatever flaws the class has in relative disorganization and unstructured lectures are completely made up for by Kafadar's astounding breadth of knowledge, enthusiasm for the subject, and patience with students. Don't pass up any chance to take a class with Kafadar.
TAKE IT.  You will learn so much not just about the Ottoman Empire but about the histories of Central Asia, Europe, and even a little about hats in American culture. By far the best class I have taken at Harvard thus far. Work is challenging but always relevant and manageable.
This class was Amazzzing! Fell in love with the course on the first day when Professor Kafadar spoke with such enthusiasm, just fun to be there in the classroom for lecture. Not much work, and learn a whole lot, definitely a class to take.
I might as well have just read Prof. Kafadar's book.
This is a must-take for people interested in Turkish, Ottoman or Middle Eastern history. Professor Kafadar is a great teacher, who is very knowledgable and enthusiastic about the subject matter. It is a great learning experience, which is also very enjoyable.
A fun course with a very engaging instructor; you may also expect some very interesting (optional) out-of-class activities during the course of the semester.
It is a class that I learned so much within a different perspective of what I have been used to. A different and definitely more objective interpretation of history.
