This class is phenomenal. The workload is demanding, but I encourage students who really want to take it to not be scared away, for they would be missing out on the class of a lifetime.
Likely one of the more difficult and demanding humanities courses in the school, but absolutely worth it. The reading is immense, but it's nothing short of life-changing if you're interested in American politics and society. While history courses often claim to help you understand "how we got here," this one truly does that. It's a lot of work, but this is the type of course you come to college to take. Prof. Kloppenberg is not only incredibly knowledgable--he also cares deeply about his students and takes the time to get to know everyone. Take it and don't look back.
The syllabus is pretty great and should be read by anyone who wants to do some sort of American Studies. The lectures were pretty good but not particularly dynamic. My year it was quite small which meant sections had a smaller feel. Ultimately, if you're in American Studies it's probably worth taking this course.
This is a difficult class, but if you are willing to put in the effort it will be very worth it. It provides an important perspective on our current political situation.
I have learned more from this class than any other course I have taken at Harvard. It has an extremely heavy workload, but it is an intensely rewarding one. The readings will change the way you understand American history, and all of them are very much worth the effort. Looking back at the course at the end of the semester, it's very rewarding to think about how much I have learned and expanded my horizons. Professor Kloppenberg is fantastic.
You should have an interest in the subject
This class wass by far one of the most interesting I have taken at Harvard.  It requires you to critically engage with a broad array of thinkers.  If you're into intellectual history, this is a class you definitely should take.  Professor Kloppenberg is brilliant and his lectures are fascinating.  However, be prepared for a LOT of work.  This isn't an easy class by any standard.
This class is hard and requires you to prioritize it, but is really worth the effort. Professor Kloppenberg is brilliant and cares about his students, and Sam was a great TF.
This class is one of the most demanding in the history department, but as a result you will get a lot out of it. Professor Kloppenberg is an excellent lecturer and very approachable, and although the class is time-intensive and graded rather toughly, it provides an excellent foundation for American history and the prevailing philosophies in every era since the Civil War. Students who take this class are very much better off for it.
This class only really feels worth it when you're studying for the final and you're able to piece things together.  It is a lot of reading, and much of it is very dense, but you will be a better student of history for taking it.  With that said, the midterm is almost arbitrarily hard--lots of hard-to-recognize IDs.  I'd recommend the course, but definitely with reservations.  The lectures are FANTASTIC, though, and really good for anyone interested in American history.
Do not take this class unless you have a real interest in philosophy. The course description is misleading in that it makes you think the class will be a lot more about history than it really is. There is a lot of discussion about specific people and their philosophical ideas, and not enough historical background. I dislike philosophy, so I really did not like the course. But if debate is your thing, you might really like it. Either way, it's a lot of dense readings and many hours of work, and the exams are some of the hardest I've ever taken.
This is an intensely interesting class that gives you a sense of the way in which Americans thought about democracy, economics, race, gender and science changed from the end of the Civil War to the present. You learn the lineage of many ideas that are thrown around in current politics and social debates.
Great way to contextualize current debates on any social issue in America. You come away with a lot of useful knowledge, in addition to learning a new way to think (when usually Harvard classes only give you the latter). It's difficult, but the workload is not bad and is totally worth it.
I did not appreciate this course. The readings did not connect with one another, but instead you read a lot of thinkers at a very basic level and discussed this with only minimal "history"--few themes, etc. The TFs were not engaging or particularly helpful, and Kloppenberg's discussion time just never worked with so many kids who all seemed to fight for participation points with really bad comments.
I didn't take social studies 10 and I'm afraid of theory, but Kloppenberg and my TF were both super supportive, I learned so much from my classmates, and I was able to totally stay afloat. Perhaps my favorite class at Harvard- you won't be able to stop thinking about all the ideas briefed in this class.
This is an amazing and challenging class. I learned more from this class--academic skills and substantive frameworks for conceptualizing the intellectual and social history of America, alike--than most other classes at Harvard, and I believe I will carry that knowledge with me into my life and future course work. The syllabus is rich with important and fascinating thinkers, the ideas we discussed were relevant and nuanced, and the discussion in lecture and section pushed me to think in new ways. Prof Kloppenberg is one of the best lecturers I have ever learned from, and he is an incredibly generous and helpful instructor in office hours as well. He cares immensely about the individual student experience, which shows. This class will inevitably be your priority for the semester, since it is a serious amount of work--3 hard essays, a midterm, a final, and so much reading plus cold calls. It is worth it, though, and I am so glad I took this class! A life-changing, quintessential Harvard history class.
Read all the material (and you will considering the 3 papers, two exams, and cold callings) and you'll come out with some amazing knowledge. Stellar course though certain weeks had unreasonable amount readings. But whatevs. Go hard or go home I guess.
This course is amazing in multiple ways. It is amazing in its subject matter, which is both interesting and applicable, and it is amazing in its rigor, which will make you cry and significantly distress you. After about the 5th or 6th reading of each reading, you will understand these great American thinkers in ways you couldn't have imagined before. This class will change the way you think. Is that not the goal of a "Harvard education"? This class is also extremely difficult and admitting that you can't achieve the comprehension of the dense and challenging material that is demanded of you is not admitting weakness. It is being honest with yourself. This class will change the way you think but it will drag you kicking, screaming, and begging for it to stop all the way there. If you decide to take the course, for the love of whatever deity you hold dear, record his lectures and transcribe them or take notes from the recordings afterwords. You will be forced to reference the lectures specifically, and not having notes for a particular lecture will be debilitating.
Be prepared for a TON of reading. Not just reading but analyzing as well. You're expected to have read the reading by class so that you can participate in discussions with the professor and other members of class.
Don't take this course unless you have a background in philosophy or sociology. You will be crushed in lecture and section discussions if you have never read Kant, Hegel, etc. That being said, Professor Kloppenberg is one of the most thoughtful and intelligent people I have met at Harvard. I'm pretty sure he gets invited to every faculty meal because he is such an approachable individual. Go to office hours. Also, do all of the reading and speak up in section.
One of the rare courses that you can feel changing the way you think about a subject.  A must-take for anyone interested in American History or intellectual history -- or both.
You will get a lot out of this class but it will be emotional turmoil. If you are a pre-med or planning to apply to law school/any other grad school, it's important to consider that this may kick your GPA down a couple notches.
If you are willing to work hard, do all the reading, and be okay feeling like you do not succeed all the time, you will learn a lot from this course about why you believe what you believe, how to think, and, of course, the history of American social thought.
This class is not easy. It has a ton of work and the work is not graded easily.  You better hope you find it interesting and will remain engaged so you can do okay.  Pass fail sounds like a good option in hindsight
This is a great class. It's difficult, but it is well worth it.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, and by far the best I've taken in the History department. Try not to be scared away; it really is worth it.
This course changed the way I think about American history and the ideas expressed by our most famous figures. For anyone looking to dig deeper into the thought that shaped our country, take this course. Professor Kloppenberg is an amazing lecturer, and very personable, and the section discussions are typically quite engaging as the course attracts incredibly thoughtful students.
Take it if you're interested in intellectual history at all. Otherwise, this is NOT an introductory course so you should only take this class if you know how history classes work here at Harvard
This is the best class that I have taken at Harvard.  It also killed my GPA.  The amount of reading is manageable if you only read it once... but realistically to do well in this course you really have to read everything multiple times.  This course is so relevant to almost everything you encounter in daily life, and even though it was really difficult, I don't regret taking it at all.  I think it has given me a much better understanding of modern America.  Professor Kloppenberg is a great lecturer.  The key to doing well in this course is really being able to dedicate an insane amount of time to it.
This is a challenging course, with lots of reading and high standards for engagement with ideas.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. The readings are condensed and introduce you to a number of interesting currents in American culture and society. The lectures are the best I have had as an undergrad. It is not an easy class but also very manageable if you stay on top of the reading load. Feedback on papers is very helpful and the exams are fair. Take the class for Professor Kloppenberg, he is an exceptional teacher who takes the time to get to know you in and outside of class.
This course is brilliant! It's a real challenge--you have to keep up with the readings and read every page. They're dense readings too, often. You can often read a text and not totally get it--these are really tricky ideas. However, at the end of the day, you're a smarter, stronger student for having taken this class. Kloppenberg and his TFs will teach you so much about American history! Fascinating class!
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard.  If you're willing to put the time into it (you must commit to doing the readings every week), then it will be so completely worth it.
Easily one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, maybe the best. Prof. Kloppenberg is a superb lecturer and fun to talk to at office hours. The material is fascinating - you end up really understanding the sources of a lot of ideas in modern public discourse. Keep in mind that "social thought" is a bit of a misnomer, this is really an intellectual history class; for instance, 2 or 3 of the lectures are almost entirely about art. Also note that a great deal of time is spent on the pragmatists (lots and lots of Dewey). Finally, there is plenty of work (3 essays, midterm + final) and the grading is unusually harsh. If you're prepared to risk a gpa hit, though, this class is completely worth it.
This is an amazing class. It's the best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Professor Kloppenberg is a gem and is one of the smartest, most interesting professors you'll find at Harvard; in addition to being brilliant, however, he is incredibly down to earth and encouraging and easy to talk to. The material for this class is amazing; yes, it's a lot of reading and sometimes Kloppenberg cold calls during lecture, but if you make this class your #1 priority and do the reading for every lecture, you will get so much out of this class.
You will learn so much from this class if you commit to spending time for it! Absolutely worth it.
This class is an essential part of a Harvard education. You will read philosophers that the Philosophy department itself won't teach, you will see the roots of modernism and postmodernsim too deep for HAA to uncover, you will see the twists and turns liberalism and conservatism took to reach their current form, and you will, at last, look back and begin to understand the process by which thought turns into action. It's worth the workload (which is very reasonable, in my opinion).
This is a difficult course with a ton of reading. I don't know that your Weltanschauung will be changed, but you will definitely come away with new ways of looking at a bunch of things you never thought much about before.
This class requires deep engagement but is incredibly rewarding. It gives you a better sense than any other Harvard class of the intellectual traditions that Americans have inherited from past thinkers. This class will make you think differently about your relationship with our time period and those who came before us.
Fantastic course!!  Consider taking it pass-fail.  It changed my life, though.
Take it, don't think twice. The course is phenomenal, the readings are excellent, and Kloppenberg is one of the best professors you will find at Harvard College. All that said, be prepared to work your butt off...there is a lot of reading to push through and JK cold calls. Also, if you've never taken Social Studies or a philosophy class of any kind you may feel a little bit disadvantaged in class discussions.
Some people will say that you should take this course despite the fact that it entails a lot of work and is arguably graded harshly. You should take the class exactly for those reasons. This course is challenging because it forces you to deeply engage with texts that shape the way we act and think today. The lectures, sections, and readings are all fantastic.
This course will introduce you to a brilliant array of American thinkers from a variety of different disciplines.  These primary materials are incredibly rich.  However, if you think you want to take this course, you should think very carefully about whether you will have the time and energy to devote to it.  Many of the readings are amazingly dense and voluminous; the course requires you to write three essays and take two exams; and there are discussions in each lecture in addition to the discussion sections, and you may be cold called in both settings.  The course demands your best relentlessly and can honestly be demoralizing at times.  However, the teaching staff is fantastic and very willing to provide assistance.  In the end, I am glad to have worked with them and to have read all of these amazing thinkers, even if the course did make me slightly crazed.
Do you want to know the canon of American thought?  It's an excellent survey of the American pragmatists, and those thinkers surrounding them. You'll read a lot of people that you feel like you should read, and come away with a decent grasp. Valuable for American history students - it provides the intellectual layer to understanding the last 160 years. Drawbacks: The lectures provide an interesting context to the thinkers, but tend to run dry in biographical facts not integral to the ideas. The essay prompts had strange constraints - these papers probably won't be exciting to write. It's not that many pages, but you have to keep up with the reading.
You will learn a ton in this course, and people will love to listen to all the things you learned because it is so relevant.  The class is a ton of work, and the reading will seem overwhelming.  If the class is small again, hopefully you can bond with the other students.
This course is one of the best I have taken at Harvard. It is interesting and Professor Kloppenberg is amazing. It is not easy, but you should take it anyway.
It is a lot of work.
Loved it, Kloppenberg's a blast, TFs are smart, I actually wanted to do the readings (whaaaa?! yeah exactly.)
This has been one if the best courses I have taken at Harvard. The subject matter is very interesting and gives students a new way to look at American history through the lens of ideas. Professor Kloppenberg is, hands down, the best professor I have had. He genuinely cares about students, makes a concerted effort to get to know each and every person in his class, and makes himself readily available in office hours. This is a must-take course that I would recommend for upperclassmen.
This course was my favorite class at Harvard so far. Coming into it, I had no idea what I wanted to concentrate in, but this course showed me the diversity and, for lack of a better word, awesomeness of history, and now, I was a History concentrator. I really recommend this class, but be ready to work. The readings are lengthy and difficult, and there are a lot of papers, a midterm, and a final exam, which are all very tough. You will work, but I'm almost positive you'll love it. You get to look at America from every angle (although with a little too much philosophy from my standpoint, but that's just me), which is so cool. The professor and TFs are amazing, too. Take it!
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard, it has truly changed me as a person.  Just be prepared to work like a maniac, because the class really is as challenging as advertised.
Despite how difficult people say this course is, it's not that hard, and missing it would be a huge mistake.  This is the best course I have taken ever, and Professor Kloppenberg is the best Professor I have ever have (he learned everyone's name, even if they never went to his office hours).  He also obviously takes great care to choose talented TFs to teach the course who know their stuff, and the other students in the course are worth listening to.  If for no other reason, take this course because it's the only one where everyone does the reading - you'd be surprised what a difference that makes in section and in discussions.
This course covers so much material and gives you a good understanding of how intellectual ideas have changed and evolved in America since the end of the 18th century. I highly recommend this course if you are interested in seeing how literature and art fit into this progression as well. This is absolutely one of the best classes at Harvard! It's not impossible in terms of work.
One of the best courses I've ever taken. Changed my understanding of America, and (you might say) my understanding of understanding, what it means to study history and why.
The lectures are about history, but the readings are all about social studies.
This class hits all the right notes - fabulous professor, great TFs (at least in my experience), and a killer syllabus full of fascinating and generally relevant readings. You have to keep up with work, but it's not unmanageable, and it's definitely worth it.
Students who value critical introspection in their quest for personal development will find in this course an excellent ally.
I don't think that this class is as hard as it's billed to be, nor should it be looked at as such a difficult class. All it requires is that you really keep up with the reading and try to understand it as you read; the essays are pretty straightforward. The only difficult part is the midterm and final, simply because there's so much material to cover.
This is a sprawling, often disjointed foray into a series of useful but disparate topics of American social thought. The material to be discussed is immense, and Professor Kloppenberg clearly has a deep knowledge of virtually all theories touched upon. But ultimately the experience is a broken one  the myriad voices of authors only slightly relate to each other, and little historical context is offered to tie the thoughts of these cultural critics to their respective places in American history. Because of the little time that is spent on any one theorist, ideas are presented with little nuance and many appear uninteresting. Professor Kloppenberg brings an intensity to the classroom that might override a lack of in-depth investigation for some, however I found this intensity for the most part intimidating and unsettling.
This is one of the best classes offered at Harvard for those who are interested in ideas, their power, and how they develop over time. It is also one of the best-structured classes I've encountered at Harvard and its clear that a huge amount of thought went into structuring it and improving it over the years. A fascinating course, that is taught enthusiastically and effectively.
The topic itself should be investigated more thoroughly.
This is the best class you'll ever take at Harvard. It covers a lot of material you'll be glad to be familiar with, and provides a great survey of American intellectual history. Also, Professor Kloppenberg is adorable.
you should only take this class if you are really interested in the ideas and thus willing to put in the work.
Be ready to work harder and learn more than you have in any other course.
This is really hard and a ton of reading, but you get alot out of it and Professor Kloppenberg is a great teacher.
I'm a junior, and this is the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. This is a difficult class, but it is extremely rewarding. Even if it brings your GPA down a notch, it will raise your intellect and love of learning twenty notches.
This is a course you will never forget; it will be extremely tough, but if you are looking for a great lecture course in History, Social Studies, or Hist and Lit, this is it.
Professor Kloppengerg is a rock star.  End of story.
hard hard but very interesting.  opened me up to many different thinkers and ways of thinking.  so, the hardness was worth it, but it got stressful at times.
Don't be bashful about participating in discussions. All interpretations of readings are respected and welcomed in lecture and in section. Various points of view on texts serve to broaden understanding, and often lead discussions in new and interesting directions.
It is hard but worth it.  You learn a lot and feel smarter after taking it.
It is not a class you want to graduate from Harvard without taking
Great class; the reading is sometimes heavy, but worth it.
Please push Prof. Kloppenberg to expand even more on his idea of American Intellectual Thought; his beliefs and, thusly, the way he teaches his course, are already what a Harvard professor's should be - incredibly inclusive, unorthodox, and responsive to the needs of his students and to his own observations of society.
It is by far the best class at Harvard. Didn't miss a lecture.
This class changed the way I think about history. If you do not mind being challenged by your classes, I cannot recommend it highly enough.
Take this class.
I took this class as my History core and it was exceptionally rewarding. The class is difficult, but don't let the hype discourage you. If you're a dedicated student who can manage a lot of reading, then this is definitely a worthwhile course to take. Kloppenberg is really a great professor and Andrew Kinney was an exceptional TF. Definitely a very rewarding class that's helped me gain such a fuller understanding of American history and a philosophy I had rarely heard about before, pragmatism.
I read the CUE comments before I took my class, and didn't believe them. Believe them; this course is incredible. It will change the way you approach American history and think about America. Not only is it an excellent survey of American intellectual history, it is what you expect a Harvard class to be. It's extremely difficult, the lectures are beyond stimulating, and your classmates are among the most intellectual at Harvard. Take it -  you won't be disappointed.
It's hard work but definitely worth it. The professor is one of the best at Harvard, he is completely unpretentious and very interested in student involvement. The material is fascinating and really inspires one to examine one's American identity (if that applies) and one's conception of democracy.
The only reason I may not recommend this course is because of how I found it.
This class is absolutely incredible.  I feel like a better student, thinker and citizen after taking it.  I would recommend it to anyone - it will change the way you think about the world.
Some of the best lectures I've had at Harvard and the professor really cares and takes students' experience seriously. The assignments were somewhat disappointing but the class isn't really about them.
TAKE THIS CLASS!
Great for understanding American history.
Do all of the reading and pay attention in lectures. All of the material is well chosen and excellently presented to provide you with the most information possible. The class provides a comprehensive understanding of American thought in the context of historical events.
How much you enjoy this class will depend on your background and experience. I found it difficult to follow and a struggle to keep up with the readings. However, having finished the course, I would not trade it in for anything. The understanding of American history and the exposure to foundational American thinkers gained from this course is invaluable.
One of the most intellectually rewarding classes you'll find at Harvard.
If there is any class that you SHOULD take at Harvard, it is this one. Professor Kloppenberg is amazing, the course materials are readable (i.e. you CAN do all the readings) -- not easy, but engaging, interesting, and important. This course will change your life, if only to make you more knowledgeable about a wide variety of topics not even limited to America. It is a very tough class, so do not take it in a semester where it can't be your priority, but if you truly engage with the materials and listen, not only will this course be the best you've ever taken, but you will meet people in it that really care about learning and life.
It was the hardest class I've taken as a Harvard student but I walked away from it appreciating it for how it made me engage critically with our country's past.
You'll walk away with a wide breadth of knowledge, having read some crucial texts of American intellectual history. Professor Kloppenberg is  a  definite mensch who puts a solid effort into making this a worthwhile course. Of course, it is a fairly large history lecture course with sections, so it has its limitations. It's worth the effort.
Tough, tough class. Keep up with the reading and beware that the grading is quite hard. Overall, it is worth it because the professor and Tfs are great, but know that this will be challenging.
This class had one of the most difficult midterms I have ever taken. This is the most difficult class in the history department.
Every class at Harvard should be like this. You absolutely must do yourself the favor of taking it. There is no better choice you could make.
This course is SO rewarding, but you get out what you put in. It's one of those classes where you'll feel like you let yourself down if you don't do all the work, not because the final will be impossible (which it will) but because all of the material is so worth while. If you have a pretty light load in your other classes, I strongly recommend investing the time and effort into this course.
The material the course covers is interesting, the readings are engaging, and lectures exciting - Kloppenberg is a charismatic lecturer and loves teaching this course. That said, it is incredibly difficult and I often was frustrated by grading, unreasonably high expectations, and section.
A class about the history of thought, not actually about thought. Be prepared to read a lot of excerpts and not engage with them very critically. That said, it is a great survey and JTK is a terrific lecturer.
This course is a survey, but it is also incredibly in depth.  It will, without a doubt, deepen your understanding of modern American life and history, and learning through intellectual history provides you with tangible frameworks within which to situate all historical facts that will ebb and flow from your mind in the coming years.  This course is certainly a challenge, and at times it is a bit much, but you will not regret taking it, and it will make you a better scholar and citizen.
High highs and low lows. Lots of work. You need to do every single reading to feel secure going into the midterm and the final exam.
Might as well be up front about it: This course is hard. Not just hard in the sense that it forces its students to wrestle with challenging ideas -- though it is hard in that sense too -- but in the sense that it requires a relentless dedication. Hundreds of pages of reading, three papers, a midterm and a final. This is not for the faint of heart. But it IS for anyone who has any interest in understanding American thought, and I can hardly think of a better professor to do that from than Prof. Kloppenberg. He is among the most engaging, engaged, and caring professors at Harvard, and he is also brilliant and is dedicated to making the course a success. Take this course if you have the time to dedicate yourself fully -- if you do, you won't regret it. 1330 is among the best at Harvard.
Absolutely take this class. Fight to get in. It will define your college experience-- if you're studying America with any particular emphasis in your concentration, this class is the most valuable one you'll take at Harvard. Be ready to work hard, and set aside the hours you'll need to devote to this class each week. Engaging with all the materials all semester long will make the experience of taking this course invaluable. Professor Kloppenberg, I can't thank you enough for putting together such a remarkable syllabus, and teaching it with so much commitment and enthusiasm. I think we all left the semester feeling a little like we'd want to be professors of American intellectual history.
You will put in a TON of work for this class (or you should), but it is totally worth it.  Do the readings, study hard for the midterm, put a lot of thought into your papers, get to know Professor Kloppenberg outside of class, and you'll walk away with a much deeper understanding of the world we live in.
This course was a lot of work.  Professor Kloppenberg said he wanted it to change our lives.  Some of the readings (James and Rorty) definitely did.  I have never had a professor care so much about each of his individual students and engage so much in a course.  I always felt like he would listen to the contributions I made in class and in office hours.  I am very grateful for this in a university where aloof professors are the norm.  However, I found many aspects of this course to be rather frustrating.  The breadth of the course is overwhelming and makes mastery of the readings and thinkers difficult.  The essays were also very frustrating--don't ever expect to be able to choose what you write on.  Overall, for an introduction to the American intellectual tradition, it achieved its task well.  A very difficult course.
This course-- professor, material, lectures-- was fantastic. However, I'd suggest that people take this course their junior or senior year, and that they have some idea of what intellectual history is and/or are familiar with at least some of the material already. This will greatly enhance your enjoyment of the course; with lack of experience, much of the material goes to waste on time spent trying to figure out how to actually manage it.Also, make friends and be nice to everyone in the class. It will be a lot more fun that way.
This class is strenuous but incredibly rewarding. I absolutely loved this class and the hard work was well worth it. If you're at all interested in social thought and the development of American political philosophy, absolutely take this class.
As everyone says, this is a tough but great class.  It will probably take over your life for the semester, which will lead both to frustration and a really rewarding learning experience.  I made a ton of friends in this class (it's a real bonding experience), and if you invest in it, it will pay off.  Professor Kloppenberg is amazing - he's so brilliant and has read everything under the sun - and you are lucky to get to learn from him for a semester.  Definitely make use of the chance to participate in class discussions.  I didn't love the section component of this course, so try to get as much out of that part as you can.  Some of the readings and artistic material covered in this course are really spectacular, and I'm so glad I am knowledgable about them now - it definitely makes me a more intelligent citizen and American.   That being said, this class is incredibly difficult - the papers are tough and graded hard, while the exams are very difficult!  It's not a joke that you are highly unlikely to get an A, and that you'll work incredibly hard all semester anyway (the course basically requires full engagement at all times).  The exams really do force you to master the material though, which is something you'll not be sorry you did.  Themes from this course have definitely transformed my outlook on a lot of academic and real-world issues, and I think the ideas will stay with me for a very long time.
On an intellectual level, this class is incoherent.  Race, feminism, epistemology, ethics, and social history are lumped together as "social theory," and it doesn't work.  Kloppenberg's only method of uniting the material is by tying it all to Obama.  Or to pragmatism.  Either way, it's a load of crap.  On a more practical level, this class demands an amazing amount of time.  I took this class along with four others, one of which was a graduate seminar and one of which was a research seminar.  This was the worst decision I have made at Harvard.  Do not do something this stupid.  In fact, don't take the class.  There is no reason to put yourself through such difficulty.  Really.  Discussion in class is worthless, essay topics are handed out only a week ahead of time, and grades are very, very low.
This class has a phenomenal syllabus and Kloppenberg is a great lecturer. Though it was one of the hardest classes I have taken at Harvard, I don't regret it for a second. It has certainly changed the course of my academic interests and maybe my thesis! I was very disappointed in the sections, however, and felt that the grading was unnecessarily harsh and arbitrarily tough. I did not feel like I was supported to make improvements. Instead it felt like the teaching staff was trying to trip me up -- both in essays and in the exam, which is a truly horrible thing to feel in a class.
Take this class if you love American pragmatism; you will be in good company.
The assignments are tough esp if you are unfamiliar with intellectual history, so definitely plan them out in advance. Wonderful class if you have not encountered the people on the syllabus before, but if you are not very familiar with US history you will have to do extra leg work to appreciate what's going on.
If you think a Harvard education should be rigorous and excellent, this is a great class to take.  If you have any illusions about the purpose of education being padding a resume and making you feel brilliant, this is not the course for you.  I know this sounds invidious, but really think about why you are here.  I did not do well in this class, and I pretty much okay with it because I learned more than I have in any other class at Harvard.  However, this class will significantly bring down my GPA.  Think about whether that is worth it.
Be ready to put in the work. Don't fall behind in the reading! If you stay on top of it though, the course is very rewarding.
This course is challenging and a lot of work, but I think all of the effort is worth it in the end. If you don't have the time to do all of the reading then don't take this course.
This class offers a great group of readings on the syllabus and a completely new way of looking at American history. I came out of the class knowing a lot about many American thinkers I had known little about before, or in some cases had never even heard of. In addition, Professor Kloppenberg is an incredibly engaging lecturer, and the TFs were consistently helpful and interesting to talk to. However, if a friend asked me whether she should take this class, I would strongly encourage her not to. Throughout the semester, this course caused me a significant amount of anxiety and stress that did not really enhance my learning experience, and I know that I wasn't the only one who felt that way about the class. There was the threat of being cold-called in lecture to discuss readings when, like at many other classes at Harvard, it was nearly impossible to finish all the readings in time for lecture. There was the sense in section that you were constantly being evaluated and judged, since the TFs for this course were expected to take detailed notes during section about how much each of us spoke and which of us had the most perceptive comments. There was the lack of feedback on my work: I spent more time on the essays for this class than any other papers I wrote this semester, and yet the comments I got back often said little about my argument, although they were quick to point out very subtle grammar errors that I had never even heard of before this class. (We also got almost no guidance on how to write a proper intellectual history essay before the first paper, although we were given plenty of specific pointers after the first paper--I'm not sure why we couldn't have had that information before.) Finally, there were the exams, which caused a huge amount of stress for everyone I knew in the class. On both the midterm and the final, we were expected to identify passages from a possible list of around twenty-five different (lengthy) readings. In many cases these passages were purposely confusing, with no key words or anything that might make it too easy to identify the author. I'm not sure whether I agree that memorizing texts enhances your understanding of them, but this seemed to be the only way to manage the IDs on the tests. In short, I never understood how many of the course requirements related to actual learning about the texts we were reading. While the content of the course was excellent, if given the chance to redo this semester, I would gladly sacrifice my knowledge of this content for a chance to avoid all the problems I just listed.
This class transformed the way I see American intellectual culture and the place that our current age fits into the American historical tradition.  It requires a huge time investment and it is highly unlikely that you will get an A.  That said, it is definitely the best intellectual experience I've had at Harvard --a must-take for the historically inclined or for those who just want to learn a little more about the origins of our contemporary intellectual culture.  Kloppenberg gives a fabulous lecture and generates interesting discussions from the readings and themes he selects.  After taking this course, I feel like I finally possess the analytical and literary tools that I need to become an "educated person."
This course is amazing, but VERY difficult. There are more readings than is possible to handle, and you will be expected to know them very well. Readings vary in length and importance, but it is hard to get all you can from lectures if you havent done all the readings. Essays are reasonable, the midterm is cruel and impossible, and the final asks you to write more than is possible in 3 hours, and you will definitely not finish. Truth be told I never felt safe in class, or section, or while doing the assignments. This class is very hard and I do not recommend taking it with other reading heavy courses, not even one if possible. Nevertheless, I feel that the material is so important to understanding American society today that this class is essential if you want to call yourself an American.
This is a huge commitment.  I'll probably look back on this and be glad I took it, but the grading curve is harsh, the pace is relentless, and you are surrounded by some of Harvard's brightest students.  It's pretty tough as a first History class.
It's one of the hardest classes at Harvard that I have taken, but it's still worth it.
You will get to read a lot of really interesting American social thought in this class.  It will expect a lot form you but you can rise to the ocassion and get a lot from it.  Just make sure you're willing to make it a priority before you sign on.
Professor Kloppenberg is both an intellectual superstar and a truly kind, thoughtful, and interesting person. Definitely take advantage of his office hours. 1330 is not for the light of heart; but if you keep up with the readings you will be way ahead of the game, as it will make the exams and papers much easier if you're re-reading as opposed to covering the works for the first time. In general, the course is extremely well-structured, tracing strains of thought in a way that beigins to make sense of the historical trajectory of modern America, while still acknowledging the existence of other, contradictory strains. Also, William James is simply wonderful.
Professor Kloppenberg was amazing and clearly interested in teaching and helping undergraduates, the material was fascinating and engaging, and the TFs were actively helpful. That being said, be prepared to dedicate a significant chunk of your homework time during the week to this class. The workload was overwhelming and the expectations in the papers and exams are very high (if not unreasonably high in the case of the midterm).
All the hype is true.  The readings are fantastic and relevant to anyone who wants to understand the ideas underlying American politics and culture.  The lectures are incredible, and because of Professor Kloppenberg's enthusiasm and the high demands placed on students in the course, the level of discussion in lecture and section was the highest I have seen in my two and a half years here.  Be prepared to be challenged, but take this course!
Tough class (hard grading on papers, two of the hardest exams I've ever taken). Learned a lot, though. Kind of lofty, occasionally, but I generally feel smarter for having taken it. You probably won't get an A.
You won't get an A, but if you're OK with that-- great class.
Perhaps they'll change the course, but if they don't, be wary. The good: Kloppenberg is brilliant and a great lecturer, a lot of the readings are really intellectually stimulating, and the other students were, this year at least, very intelligent. The-not-necessarily-bad: there is a TON of reading that you will be absolutely required to have read (you can get away with not doing it, but not very easily), and the course is not exactly what it seems: it is not a representative survey of American Social Thought, exactly--it is more like Kloppenberg's favorite American Social Thought with assorted extras, focusing heavily on the period 1880-1930 and pragmatism generally. Not a bad thing, just not necessarily what you think it is. The bad: depending on what you're used to, the essays are graded strangely and not necessarily fairly. The exams were frustratingly long. You never get too deep into any particular mode of thinking, other than pragmatism--particularly not modern leftist or rightism, astonishingly. And some people had bad TF experiences, though not everyone. So basically: it's a ton of work, and you should make sure it's worth it. Kloppenberg is amazing and if you put in the time it can be great, but be very wary, because I find myself somewhat disappointed.
Rewarding in terms of how much you learn, but very very difficult.
Difficult, must like 5+ plus readings for week. Some readings are great, some are terrible. Essays are very demanding.
The course requires more than just reading the texts and doing the assignments. The essays are graded more harshly than expected and take significantly more time. The exams are also difficult with quote passages being fairly obscure. Study and read the texts over and over.
This class is a true Harvard experience. It is meant for upperclassmen who already have a background in American history. Kloppenberg is very smart even if he is a little smug at times. The reading list will make you smarter. It was one of the best courses I took.
A fantastic class with a fantastic professor. Be prepared to work very hard. And to do all your reading (but actually). Read keeping in mind that you will have to identify passages on the exams. Also be prepared for papers to be graded very hard. BUT if you survive all of that, this course will be phenomenal and you will undoubtedly be glad you learned this material, and learned it from Kloppenberg, nonetheless. Hist 1330 will make for a tough semester, but it's the kind of class you come to Harvard to take.
This is an amazing class. You will learn so much and be astounded by how much material you can remember and engage with on a daily basis. This class will form the foundation to the rest of your studies in so many ways--by far my favorite class at Harvard and the best learnign experience I've ever had. TAKE IT!!!!! It is difficult, and I didn't get an A, but that doesn't matter when you learn more than you ever thought you would have been able to.
This course is a fantastic course to take if you have the time to put in to it. Do not take this class if you have heard great things about it but you know you will be taking other challenging (or time consuming) classes because the more you put into this class, the more you will get out of it. It is necessary to actually do as much of the reading as possible but the discussions and lectures are very rewarding.
"Harvard's hardest humanities class" as an '06 Crimson article once labeled it. The dense reading - and the sheer quantity of it - will leave you both mentally and physically exhausted, but it will change the way you see modern America and the way you see yourself in relation to your world. Marcuse, Murray, Myrdal, King, Bourne, Lippman, Dewey, James - contingency, irony, solidarity, transnational identity, pragmatism, postethnicity, modernism, postmodernism. As Kloppenberg would say, "it's turtles all the way down".
This is a good class. Not transformational as some others may say, but you definitely get as much out of it as you put in. Trouble is, at times you may find yourself reluctant to put much in at all. The overall learning environment in this class can definitely be offputting to some.
Sorry this is a long review, but I have a lot of thoughts on this class.First of all, I want to start by saying that it is a great course. Lectures were great and the syllabus was fantastic - I have been introduced to crucial American thought that has informed my own thinking in ways I could not even have imagined. These are the sorts of things everyone should know, and Kloppenberg's course provides an excellent introduction to the backbone of American social thought. There is a ton of reading, but it is worth every page because, together, it provides a package that you cannot receive anywhere else at the College and that will enhance your understanding of almost anything else you study, especially if you focus on America.That said, I don't think it was the "best course I took at Harvard." It was really, really great. The syllabus was the best syllabus of any course I've taken at Harvard, and the lectures were often among the best. But I did sometimes find myself frustrated by a number of things. Sections did not always match up to the quality of readings we did. The exams require an immense amount of work and are quite tough. The lectures, while often great, sometimes gave way to class discussions after 20 or so minutes, leaving me without much grasp of the history behind what we were reading. So, although the course was phenomenal, I do wish I had been aware of these minor weaknesses before I went into it.Lastly, this seems obvious, but know that three papers and two exams mean this class will dominate your schedule. It is a huge time investment to take the class. Worth it, but still huge.
Prof. Kloppenberg is a very smart and interesting lecturer, but also seems to care about his students on a more personal level. The TFs are great as well.  Really, though, the reason to take this course if for the other students who take it.  The student composition of the class was remarkably interested, bright, and excited about doing the readings, doing the work, and continuing discussions beyond the classroom.  It was a very exciting and dynamic intellectual environment, although certainly a demanding workload and an unforgiving grading system.
