Fantastic teacher and materials. Professor Akyeampong really knows  his tuff and is one of the most accessible professors I've had at Harvard.
It's a survey course, so there's a lot presented and it can get pretty jumbled if you're not on top of it. Way too much reading. Only take if you love Professor Akyeampong or prehistorical/precolonial African history, otherwise it can be a pretty unsatisfying course
If you want to know about this topic, this is probably the course to take. Be sure, however, that you are interested, and that you can hold your own in writing without too much feedback over the course of the semester.
The lecture material could be presented in a more engaging manner and the readings were at times a bit repetitive. I gained a solid understanding of the factors underlying the development of African societies across the continent, especially the impact of climate and international trade, as well as an understanding of the unique aspects of different regions. The immense geographical space and time period was made manageable by focusing on unifying themes.
it's a lot of reading, but you get the hang of figuring out what to read and what to perhaps leave for exam studying. one great thing is that there is only one reading covered each week in section, which makes it easier to keep up when other classes get busy. Prof A is a wonderful storyteller, and genuinely cares about all his students. I highly recommend taking a class with him if you have the chance!
That is a great course where your knowledge of Africa will be enhanced.
It's great! Professor Akyeampong is an excellent lecturer. However, readings are very heavy and weekly load is high.
This class is a lot of fun. It teaches material that is very rarely taught, and does so well: starting from the very beginning, and up through the 1800s (as the name suggests). Really, you break into the Common Era after about four lectures, and 1500-1860 takes up the entire second half of the course. And, as someone who wanted to learn about Africa before colonization, I was occasionally disappointed by how much the course relied upon European written sources, and how much it covered the actions of Europeans. I think this is unavoidable, though, and in the end I thoroughly enjoyed myself.
Any class with Professor Akyeampong will be one where you learn a terrific amount. His knowledge is vast and wide ranging. The lectures are great, and while the reading load isn't the lightest, you can get by doing just the section readings and selecting the lecture readings you need to fill gaps. A great course, do take it.
Professor Akyeampong is one of the nicest professors I've had and his enthusiasm for African history really comes through and makes you excited about the material as well.  The weekly reading amounts assigned are often huge and impossible to do with reading loads from other classes, but if you skim the readings and get the general idea from each, you should be fine.
Take it -- History 1700 will be the best history class you take.
This class is an engaging and relevant introduction to early Africa.
Great Professors and a lot of new information an history you probably don't know
This is an interesting, engaging and worthwhile class.
Class covers a lot of material and will introduce you to the broad debates and issues in Africanist historiography. There is little to no coverage of Sudan or the horn of Africa (including Ethiopia).
This class is challenging, but it is well worth the hard work because of the enlightening lectures and eye-opening course material.
This class is very interesting and a great introduction to African history. It is well-taught and the readings are novel.
This class is amazing!
This is an excellent course which will help you learn the broad themes of African history.
Really a terrific class. A great way to learn the themes of African history, if not the minutiae of the continent's history.
This class requires a bit of work, but it is worth it. A great survey course of African history, although it can get disorganized at times. Professor is great- good lecturer and extremely accessible. Go to his office hours; he is always so helpful. You do not need to do the readings, just the section readings. Sometimes section readings are too long. Great class.
The Professor is great, the lectures are engaging, the work is very manageable and the material is fascinating!
It's an amazing class and the professor is super fun and interesting in lecture. If you're not that interested in the material you shouldn't take it, but if you secretly love history and want to get your feet wet its a perfect starting course and you learn a lot.
Professor Akyeampong is a star historian and professor.  You will regret not taking a course from him.
The professor is a very nice man and he makes this class worth taking. There are many assigned readings and it is easy to be overwhelmed by the number of pages read each week. Other than that, this is a great, painless class to take.
professor akyeampong is a good reason to take this class. the material as well, but more so his teaching style, his smarts, and attitude towards undergrad education. rare here.
Definitely take this class! I was enthralled by every lecture. Be prepared to do a lot of reading, but it is worth it. Akyeampong is an amazing teacher, very willing to help students in any way possible. If history is in any way, shape, or form interesting to you, you must take this course.
