This course is Expos for History concentrators.  It is hard, you get bad grades, and it is all about improving you writing.  But it is worthwhile.
This course is like another Expos course, but it teaches you how to write in the history discipline. It will teach you how to do research and how to write concisely and well.
Opportunities to revise with guidance were the highlight of this course! I also loved the freedom that we had to write about what we wanted to! I think it was challenging to be engaged in seminar. I understand that the idea that we'd read material that did that tasks we were supposed to do in our own writing (historiography, close read, contextualize primary sources, etc.) but the readings were not on topics that I personally felt remotely interested in, so I ended up barely doing any of the readings. Also, it was frustrating that the time we were allotted to meet with the TF to move from draft to revision was so short. Be aware of what day the course is and what that means about when papers are due. Sunday afternoon due dates take away weekends.
History 97c is pretty painless. Unfortunately it looks like Michael will not be TFing again next year, but he and Professor Blair are both incredibly intelligent and helpful resources. The only downside is that paper assignments are due two days before tutorial meets--that is, Sunday.
Great seminar discussion - Professor Blair is great. The readings were manageable, and the class provided great flexibility to choose research topics. Definitely take it!
This class is an excellent choice for the sophomore history tutorial. I was worried that, as a tutorial the class would be a bit intimidating. However, that was not a problem at all. Professor Blair created a super comfortable and welcoming space. It was a class I truly enjoyed going to and was the fastest-passing two hour class I've taken at Harvard. Most importantly, the class is incredibly well-structured. Now that the semester is over, I definitely feel that I've become a better writer. I am more confident in my writing abilities, and I feel more prepared as a history concentrator.
Probably the least exciting history class you'll take in the department -- but don't let it discourage you. The assignments are useful and you have a lot of freedom in choosing what you write about. This course is also good for getting to know fellow history undergrads, grad students and a professor in a personal capacity.
Among the 97C's, this is the best. Prof. Blair is an incredible educator and historian and the opportunity to learn with herald develop a relationship with her is a huge privilege.
Probably the best History 97 offered. Professor Blair is great to work with, and Ian and Salmaan were both fantastic. Although seminar didn't always feel relevant, 97c is great in that you can write on any historical topic of interest, and so that is what you'll spend that vast majority of your time working on. Professor Blair is also great about breaking up the three hour seminars with snack!
Professor Blair is a wonderful person and teacher, so you will be lucky to have her as your instructor. Though the readings and seminar discussions are long and somewhat stilted, Professor Blair sustains them with her enthusiasm for the subject. Focus the bulk of your energy on writing good papers and responding thoroughly to draft and tutorial comments. The writing component is by far the most important part of this course.
97C is a great course for your writing and historical research skills. Looking back on past papers now I feel much better equipped to evaluate my arguments and refine them. The content itself is mostly interesting, but is not structured terribly well and can feel disconnected from the assignments. That said the teaching staff is great and really helps to smooth out the minor issues.
It's a very time-intensive course, but my writing skills improved tremendously. Professor Blair is great!
Let me begin by saying that History of History is the best History 97 available so you SHOULD take this class!  Let me also explain that I think there are some fundamental problem with the History 97 program.  There are many unrealistic deadlines and frustrating department wide (ie. all 97s) policies that will make life difficult.  The 97 program was recently revamped but its need to be further improved.  It's a shame that many people are turned off of History simply because the mandatory class is bad.  The good news though is that once you make it through this course the other offerings of the department will be much more enjoyable!  Good luck in 97--my best advice is that you just deal with it and get through; don't expect to enjoy it because it's not that sort of class right now.
Well, if you're reading this you probably have to take the course and are wondering how terrible it is.  Here's your answer: it's not that bad. Prof. Blair can get pretty excited about footnotes, and the "what did you learn today" element can be annoying, but students were encouraged to write on what they were interested in, making it a methods course that nonetheless could hold personal meaning.  Additionally, Michael is a very good TF.  He listens, and wants to see you succeed.
This particular 97 course introduces you to a wide variety of historical theories and methodologies.
Everyone says this course is like Expos, but it's so much better-the draft and revision cycles are very useful, and I felt I became much better at writing history through the peer feedback sessions. Definitely a lot of assignments, but it was nice that they all led up to the final research paper, making that much more manageable. Definitely take it with Prof. Blair if she's teaching a tutorial--she's great and also gives snacks midway through the tutorial, and I'm pretty sure she's the only professor who does that
This is really a fantastic course. After having spoken with many other students in the other 97 classes, it is clear that hist 97c was by far the best course during my year. Sometimes the readings can be dry, other times you find yourself questioning what exactly you might be learning in this course. However, the true value of the course isn't necessarily in the readings, but the process of writing your tutorial papers. Jamie McSpadden was my TF during my year, and he was fantastic and gave great feedback on papers. Professor Blair was also great, although I spent a majority of my time working closely with Jamie. Take the course! The subject matter is interesting, and the staff is great.
Ann Blair and the teaching team match their enthusiasm with History with their commitment to pedagogy. This course will allow you to pursue a research topic of personal interest and work alongside stellar teachers and students as you become a stronger historian.
While the readings and discussions are interesting and engaging, not much preparation is given for writing assignments, which is compounded by harsh grading
The deadlines for this class are so grueling. Once you submit a paper and spent most of your time working on it rather than focusing on your other classes' work, you are then tasked with about three hours worth of reading to complete.
I have probably too much to say about History 97.  First off, you need to have a love for history to take this class.  I have talked about it with other people in the department (and other departments) but History 97 is the watershed course for the department.  If you really want to concentrate in history, you'll love this class. If you're unsure about whether to concentrate in History or Gov, this class will decide it for you.That being said, this class is GREAT in a lot of respects.  History 97 is what Expos should be.  You learn to write, revise, analyze, research, etc. in much greater detail than you do in Expos.  I had the weird opportunity to take Expos and Hist 97 in the same semester and Hist. 97 helped me way more.A few practical tips: 1. GO TO OFFICE HOURS! Literally, every chance you get, have a TF or the Professor, or the writing fellow for the department, or the writing center look over your papers.  They all have great insight and the more eyes look at the paper the better your final scores will be.2. When deciding on a section, remember to look at the due dates.  This is CRITICAL. Half of the sections of Hist 97 meet on Tuesday, half meet on Wednesday.  The due dates for all of the papers for the Tuesday sections was Sunday afternoon.  The deadline for all the Wednesday sections was Monday afternoon.  If you think that you can manage your time well enough, sign up for whatever you want.  However, if you want an extra day of the weekend to work on your paper, seriously consider signinng up for a Wednesday section.  I read this advice in the comments from previous years, and on two occasions during this semester, it saved my tail when other things came due around the same time.
