This is a very good, organized, and interesting seminar. Both Professor Manela and Liang were great and engaging. Liang was very helpful with the research paper and the other assignments. It's a great course to do to fulfill the research seminar requirement.
Be prepared to work hard on the research paper, but the class is very rewarding.
This is not a class that discusses the big picture of US-China relations but rather one that focuses on research methods. The research paper on a specific episode in the history of US-China relations is the key component of this course.
Great way to get practice with research papers.  Both Prof. Manela and Liang are great.
the reading materials are both academic and entertaining, very interesting
This course is a solid research seminar taught by an engaging and intelligent professor. However, be sure to work intensely on your paper, and know what you are getting into. Do take this course to write a research paper on a subject of interest in Sino-American relations, hesitate to take this course if you are unsure of what you would write about or find interesting within this subject field.
This class provides a good introduction to writing long History research papers, especially if you're looking to write a thesis. That said, I would not suggest it for people who are not seriously interested in international relations.
-It's an awesome introduction to a fascinating diplomatic relationship. Taught in a relaxed manner with really high expectations, it's conducive to producing great work and learning awesome insights. The subject matter is also relevant today and the way in which you think about the world.
This class is a great seminar to take if you are a history concentrator or simply someone interested in U.S.-China relations. For a history seminar, the reading is very manageable, and the class is enhanced by the presence of Professor Manela, who is an expert in this area of study.
As this is a seminar course, a lot of the quality of the course will probably depend on the discussion and the input of your peers.
I really enjoyed this seminarthe readings were very interesting and Professor Manela and Rui put in a lot of effort into developing your research paper. A great class if you're hoping to write a substantial history research paper about China or US-China relations. There is a substantial, thought not overwhelming, amount of work for this class.
