This is a great course if you are interested in economic thought as a historical subject. Professor Rothschild is very helpful and accommodating, and makes the seminar very enjoyable. I would say, however, that you should come into the course with a focused idea on what you might want to write a paper on, since the readings are structured in such a way that it is hard to build a research project from them alone. Moreover, I would strongly suggest beginning research before spring break.
Prof. Rotschild is a remarkable professor to work with. She'll encourage your pursuit of whatever historical topic interests you, providing guidance and resources along the way to make the research process as enjoyable as possible.
Interesting, well-facilitated discussions, and lots of freedom in the second half of the course for the discussions about particular states and the final project. Really excellent guidance from the professor and TF outside of class, too.
Professor Rothschild is an absolutely amazing professor. She genuinely cares about the students in this course and will spend a lot of time working on your ideas and papers with you. She will also help you through the research process and is the reason I'm able to conduct archival research today.
This course sounds like one of those 'must take' seminars at Harvard and it is! Shop it and lottery; you will not regret it! For those interested in economics and history, this course really helps historicize economics in a way that the Economics department alone cannot.
Professor Rothschild and Maria make a fantastic and dedicated teaching team. The course had fascinating and very well-selected readings, interesting guest speakers, a good conversational atmosphere, an exciting tour of Baker, good opportunities to present ideas, and very committed and consistent help and advising for the final paper. I would absolutely recommend taking this course to anyone who has a chance!
I think this is a very good history seminar. It is very focussed on actually writing a research paper, so to enjoy this class you need to want to write a long paper. I thought the first half of the course -- just focussed on readings -- was interesting but understandable disconnected from the papers we ended up writing, and I thought the readings could have been a bit more substantial. One thing that turned out to be quite good was that the course was oversubscribed and so Prof. Rothschild and Maria had an application process, which I thought was sort of douchey at the time but which made for a really good seminar in which everyone was more motivated than I have experienced in other Harvard classes.
The seminar was a really great experience! Definitely recommended, especially if you have an idea for a thinker or period you want to explore relatively in-depth.It is also helpful to have previously worked on a long-ish history paper before taking the class -- but because Prof. Rothschild and Maria gave such kind, close feedback, this might also be a good seminar with which to take on a longer project for the first time.
This is a great course with a terrific professor. Rothschild is thoughtful, all-knowing, and kind. She also gives you an enormous amount of flexibility with regards to your final project. If you have any interest in any topic related even vaguely to markets and states, this course is a great opportunity to pursue that interest with extensive resources at your disposal. The non-paper assignments are very manageable, and class discussion is relatively relaxed. This is a particularly good course for thesis-writers who need a back-loaded course but don't want to take a dull gen-ed.
This is a great class with a terrific professor. You can expect lots of very helpful feedback, and Professor Rothschild is very dedicated to helping their students realize their vision for their research paper. This class if also very helpful if you want to learn about how to do historical research.
This course is great if you are wondering how this allegedly scientific discipline of economics and the such concepts as marginal analysis and the  self-interested, utility-maximizing agents you learned in Ec 10 came to be. This course, however, does not cover much of the contents of alternate, heterodox schools of economics( Marxism, Keynesianism, Austrian school, etc) Those are rather placed in the historical contexts.  This course is also great if you are looking to learn to write a history research paper, especially that you get advice and help from enthusiastic & friendly professor and section leader.
Take advantage of meeting with Professor Rothschild - she is very interesting, incredibly helpful, and very willing to help!
You are free to write about almost any topic.
You have to really love economic thought to love this course.
An easy and interesting research seminar
Really great class, not too heavy workload and very interesting conversations
If you are looking to do something in the field of historical economic thought, look no further. Just be sure to start the research process early
Professor Rothschild is a fantastic professor with an encyclopedic knowledge of economic thinkers.  Any chance to take a class with her is a worth it, but this class in particular give you the opportunity to craft your own research project with her helpful advice to push you along.  But, be warned: She will take your project seriously, so you should as well.
Requires a desire in learning a lot about an economic topic in history, but Professor Rothschild and Niko worked closely with students, as few teachers actually do, and truly establish a great relationship with all eager students. Bring an eager attitude, and be ready for a 20-25 page paper, but you'll have help all along the way.
Incredible class, totally worth the work and time put into it.  Professor Rothschild is truly a gem.
this class is totally worth taking. Prof. Rothschild is an incredible fount of knowledge and wisdom, and you get to carry out the final project of your dreams! what could be better?
This is the first class I took in the history department, and it was a fantastic experience. I strongly recommend it to people interested in economics - it has broadened my understanding of the discipline greatly by exposing me to the ideas of historical thinkers.
This course is both a lot of fun and very educational. The only major assignment is the 20-25 page research paper, whichif you start early enoughcan really be not that much work.
This course is wonderful, and likely the only one of its kind. Be aware, however, that the research paper assignment is a primary focus and that you are expected to do most of the work on your own. If you've never done primary-source historical research before, I'd caution against taking this course before starting with a different financial history class. This class is primarily for people who are both interested in the topic, and ready to make their own mark on the field.
History 83a combines a fascinating topic in economic thought, fantastic teaching and guidance, and training in original research. The weekly seminars are highly engaging and grapple with fundamental questions relating to the market and state.
This is a great seminar with a professor -and TF - who know a lot about the subject matter. Most of the course consists of writing a 20-page paper, and Rothschild is very helpful when coming up with ideas and writing the paper. The workload is a reasonable amount, and the readings are well chosen.
It doesn't get any better than Professor Rothschild. Take this class if you can. 'Nuff said.
Best History and Economics course I've taken at Harvard.
if you are  not a history student you wont like this class
It blew my mind at how resourceful Harvard could be, particularly the faculty and the library system. It has such a tremendous wealth of information, and to jump into one topic that you are most passionate about - that's really exciting.
This was an effortless, painless research seminar.  The discussions were boring, but students were basically never held accountable for doing their readings, so you could get away with doing no work until the last few weeks (when the final paper was due).  The class did, however, offer the opportunity to write an interesting paper of your choice.
It is a great opportunity to do research and create your own project.
Writing the final paper was a fun project and we received excellent guidance and feedback form Josh and Professor Rothschild.
If you are interested in history and economics, this is a wonderful course for you. Prof. Rothschild is fabulous and you will gain a lot from working with her!
I am a senior and this is probably the best course I have taken at Harvard.
Great class, do as much of the readings as you want and pick up however much you are intersted in. Prof. Rothschild is an incredibly interesting lecturer--probably the most prominent economic historian alive.
If you study economic history, this is the research tutorial to take. Professor Rothschild is one of the leading luminaries of the field, and moreover, one of the best *teachers* The course offers a general survey, though it is better suited to those who are already interested in economic history than those who wish merely to dabble. Also, it's not a gut course--it is a research seminar!
