Vietnamese history is richer than most. Hue Tam Ho Tai's is more knowledgeable than most.
A fascinating course. Professor Tai is extremely, almost spookily, knowledgeable about (obviously) Vietnamese history, but all sorts of other things as well. The readings were usually very interesting. Assessments were not too difficult, provided the appropriate work was put in. An unusual class atmosphere in that it was a lecture format, despite being a very small class.
This is a good class on a country that is often underrepresented.
Take this class. It's going to teach you about Vietnam in a way no class on the Vietnam War or colonialism is going to teach. Professor Hue-Tam is the most resourceful Vietnamese scholar you will ever meet.
I enjoyed this course very much. Professor Tai is very knowledgeable about the topic and her own experiences make the class that much more interesting. The material allows you to look at the modern history of Vietnam from many different perspectives. I am quite sad that it is over.
Be sure that you are interested in Vietnamese history enough to self-motivate. If you are looking for an "easy" course to which you rarely have to show up, this is not it. Furthermore, the course has a syllabus without a grading scheme. So you have no idea what your papers are worth, what your attendance is worth, what participation is worth or anything. Don't forget to bring your crystal ball to keep track of your progress.
This is a fascinating class. If you want to have a grasp on Vietnam - this is the place to go. However, you will have to work hard, and especially if you are graduates, will also have to do some irritating unneccesary tasks like the take home exam
The lectures at the beginning were extremely interesting, but slowly became more and more boring. I took this class originally because I wanted to have a better understanding of the Vietnam War, but I found at the end that I still don't have a great understanding of the period. The workload is not heavy. Readings are fairly enjoyable.
This course is demanding and is likely rewarded mostly based on how much the student puts in.
Professor Tai is nice but she also has very high standards.
