Just go to wikipedia. There's a great summary of Russian hisotry there. Only take this class if you are willing to devote your life to understanding micro-trends in Russian imperial society.
You will learn so much about a really fascinating place and time. Do the reading, but not all of it.
This is a great course, dealing with great material. You're studying the history of the Russian Empire, but that's such a vast entity that many times it feels like you're studying the history of all of Europe and Asia. You'll learn about the roots of a number of modern issues: conflicts in the Caucasus, Poland, Ukraine, and of course, Russia!
This was a fun, exciting class that I loved.  Lectures were stimulating, the materials were fascinating and Professor O'Neill was very kind.  You will learn so much about a part of the world that you would not encounter in any other setting.  It provides a great look about an area that has an aura of mystery about it.  Though it was really stressful having a paper and a final at the end, I would suggest taking this course if you do not have paper/final combinations in other classes, as well.  Overall, this was my favorite class this semester.
This course needs a lot more structure and thought before it becomes a worthwhile course
This is a great class to learn about Russian history and the lectures are great, but the structure of the class makes it difficult to study for exams.
Be prepared to read a lot about Russian history, unpack historical questions, and investigate four-hundred years (or so) of madness, barbarism, and, occasionally, beauty.
Do you love Russia? Do you love history? If you answered yes to either of the above, DO IT.
History 1290 is a pretty good class to take if you are interested in the subject matter and don't mind the discussion-based format of the lectures. Professor O'Neill is incredibly knowledgeable and always pushes the class to think in different ways about the material (the visual history project is really fantastic.) The course is worth taking--especially for freshmen interested in concentrating in History--just for the research seminars and the unconventional ways of looking at history that Professor O'Neill introduces and encourages. However, sometimes the lectures can feel disconnected from the readings (or can be easily derailed by discussion during lecture) and the midterm and final exams are lengthy and, in the latter case especially, focused a lot on relatively-trivial information from primary source documents rather than the themes of the course as a whole.
The subject matter is amazing, fascinating, wonderful.  Professor O'Neill is a great lecturer and almost supernaturally knowledgeable.  But, there are definitely some frustrations and a LOT to learn.  Only take it if you can make it a priority and are genuinely interested in the material.
So fantastic, definitely take it. If you can't handle an elective with this much work, take it pass/fail. IT IS SO GOOD.
You WILL learn about 500 years of Russian history in 1 semester!
this is a very intensive course for graduates or undergraduates. best to come with some background in history, and a work-ethic that involves re-reading and re-visiting texts.
SO AMAZING. I HAVE RUSSIA IN MY HEAD! Professor O'Neill and Johanna were such wonderful teachers!
If you are interested in Russian culture, or in history in general, this is a great class. The professor is amazing, and the history of the beginning of Russia is really interesting. Who knew that, at first, the most important trade item was squirrels?
Awesome teacher. Cool lectures. Amazing subject matter - imperial Russia for goodness sake.
Lectures are absolutely fascinating, filled with memorable anecdotes and colorful interdisciplinary context through art, architecture, the performing arts, literature, and film. The small class size allows for a very personal experience and a truly intellectually stimulating environment in which everyone learns constantly from one another.
I think the lectures for this course were the strong point.  The readings were also fun and interesting.
The mini-labs and projects make this course more work than it would seem. Students considering the course should be aware of this.
Make sure you have time to do the readings, because they are so worth it! You can scrape by in this class without doing them, but you're really robbing yourself.
That this is a wonderful introduction to pre-soviet Russian history. Professor O'Neill's lectures are engaging and the assignments are incredibly thoughtful. I was impressed with Professor O'Neill and Megan's availability to discuss assignments.
Although there is a rather heavy reading load, the work for this course is very well distributed--it never feels overwhelming, but you are also pushed to engage with the material through mini assignments or class discussions, and will come out of the class feeling as though you have learned a lot. The class also focuses heavily on developing general skills that are necessary for dealing with a variety of historical materials.
This class was a lot of fun and a great introduction the History of the Russian Empire. Even if you do not know a lot (or anything at all, like me) about the History of Russia before the 1917 Revolution, this is a great class to take. The assignments were fun, the lectures entertaining and I loved the literature we read just as much as the history. Both Professor O'Kneil and Megan are great people and teachers, always helpful and very committed for you to do well. Overall, great experience.
You will get out of this course what you put into it.  The labs offer a great opportunity to explore Russian history in an innovative format.
Very interesting course, and a great introduction to Russia. Some of the assignments felt like busy work that went out of their way to integrate technology in a not so seamless manner. The class was half undergrads and half grad students, which was kind of odd in that the grad students mostly had much more involved backgrounds in Slavic studies. That said, I did not find them more impressive than my undergraduate peers.
It's a reasonably good class, if a bit disorganized. Professor and TF were nice and always willing to help. I would have liked a little more structure, however.
You should have an interest in mapping/geography for this course because you will spend a great deal of time with maps/making maps. The aim of the course isn't quite clear, throughout the semester you have pop quizzes which seem very picky and it is hard to understand the purpose of them other than to see if you are reading the material. Also, the final exam is the opposite of the quizzes and mid-term so you have to study a different way.
I love Professor O'Neill's teaching approach and think she's one of the nicest and most passionate history teachers Harvard has to offer. It is quite a lot of work (in terms of the reading load and number of papers) but you learn a LOT. I've taken other Russian history classes here and I definitely got the most out of this one, so if you're interested in Russia specifically then take this course.
Professor O'Neill is very kind and very knowledgeable about imperial history. However, this was overall not a great course. The workload is immense, the flow of the course itself is very disorganized, the map project seemed very out of place, and it is not always entirely clear what will be deemed "important" in the readings and will therefore show up on the exams/quizzes. If you decide to take the course, make sure you have plenty of time to devote to it.
Russian history is amazing and Prof O'Neill provides some interesting 'off-the-beaten-path' anecdotes that really amps up the entire experience; the readings are great (be prepared for a lot of reading though) and working with the map project is intensive but also extremely interesting. It'll change the way you think of maps.
This is a great class for anyone who really enjoys historical analysis. The lectures are great and the teaching staff is friendly and helpful. The assignments are usually fun and interesting, but there are a lot of them, including a final project, a final paper, and a final exam, so know that work for the course is rather backloaded. Professor O'Neill is incredibly knowledgeable on her topic, and the opportunity to learn about geomapping from a leader in the field is a very valuable one. This course is difficult, but rewarding.
A great general survey of imperial Russia
One of the harder history classes, but very rewarding
If you are at all interested in Russian history or literature, or even in empire-building more generally, this is a great course to take; there's a lot of emphasis placed on regional and ethnic variation within the empire, which really enriched my own understanding of Russia.
I really enjoyed this course because the professor is engaging and the assignments conform to the usual history class blueprint. The online tools and readings form a fascinating mixture of assignments. The level of work is not overwhelming either which is nice.
This is a really interesting course, and Professor O'Neill is a wonderful instructor. But the work is structured differently from most coursesit is more evenly spread out over the semester, with weekly quizzes and lots of small assignmentswhich created a different kind of workflow that you should be aware of and ready for.
Lots of tedious assignments, but interesting material.
One of my favorite courses at Harvard and a fantastic way to learn about Russian history. The professor is a great lecturer and accessible during office hours, and every assignment is purposeful in introducing historical methods. The weekly reading quizzes were unnecessarily stressful, but expectations are generally clear throughout the course. I learned a lot about the material through the variety of sources and assignments as well as how to think like a historian. This course seems great for freshmen who want to learn about history as a discipline and upperclassmen who want to explore a regional interest.
This class was interesting, and it's a fairly minimal workload (if you only kind of skim the readings). The weekly assignments involving various digital media were moderately interesting, but they also sometimes felt like busywork. The section was entirely useless, but attendance was mandatory.
Kelly O'Neill's ability to make Russian Imperial history come alive with her passion, interest, and knowledge is impeccable. However, many of the assignments-- utilizing technology meant to enhance the experience of historical inquiry, research, and presentation-- prove more arduous than they're worth, simply by virtue of clunky and sometimes inconsistent technology and instruction.
It's interesting material and class is engaging.
Take it if you are at all interested in Imperial Russian history! Professor and TF were helpful and understanding throughout the course, and reading not only textbook sources but also critical essays and Russian literature throughout provided an added bonus.
Be ready to commit quite some time to the course on a weekly basis. Readings can sometimes be quite a lot and you will need them for the weekly quizzes. The first half of the course is especially focused on weekly assignments that are discussed in section, so you will have constant work and deadlines for the class. Once you get used to that, it gets really enjoyable and by the time you reach the final project you really feel like you know what you're doing. Assignments are really creative, but be sure to have extra time for them, as the digital component can be quite tricky to understand (or might even crash sometimes). If there is one thing you need to give this course needs, it is time.
This class does not feel very accessible as an introduction to Russian history. The readings do not really give a full picture of what was going on, and the lectures sometimes skipped around or focused too much on visual images and specific narratives rather than broad societal trends. However, the content is interesting and Professor O'Neill is incredibly passionate.
Take this if you have any interest in Russia! The readings are some of the best I have ever done for any class, and I was never bored in Professor O'Neill's lecture.  Weekly quizzes and assignments are somewhat annoying, but they are in lieu of a final or midterm which is great.  Digital assignments sound like they would be difficult, but teaching staff always gives really thorough instructions.  This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard.
This course is not the typical history course, rather it is far more dynamic and finds new ways to approach history, which makes the readings less daunting/ boring. The quizzes are not that bad and they keep you accountable each week. There's no final exam or midterm, which is always a plus.
This class covers interesting content, and its professor is absolutely outstanding. HOWEVER, check the syllabus. If it includes the same weekly quizzes, map exercises, online posts, and confusingly complicated 3-part final project, seriously consider how many hours a week you are willing to put into this class.
