You will learn a lot. The syllabus is really well-constructed, and P. Gordon offers very enjoyable lectures. Generally, I can't complain about this course. I suppose the only problem is that it feels like the whole time you're grasping to understand and just understanding the big picture, and not learning as much of the details. Still, if you're into social theory, it's 100% a must-take. Shout-out to TF Charles Clavey for kicking ass and taking names.
This is a hard course, with a lot of hard reading and hard thinking to do. You will come out of it having seriously grappled with a lot of those thinkers you always hear your artsy / Advocate / Comp-Lit/Philosophy friends talking about. You will feel accomplished.
This is a FOUNDATIONAL course for graduates studies in the social sciences!!! I was looking forward to every lecture! Prof. Gordon is a wonderful thinker, a great pedagogue and a captivating lecturer!
this class is a great introduction to continental thought (i imagine the sequel, french social thought to be no less amazing than this was). the college doesn't really have many classes like this, except social studies 10. i've always wanted to read much of the texts included in this syllabus but felt that i wouldn't be able to do it on my own, and this course really offered a great opportunity for me to dive into these dense texts that are at the same time very rewarding to (try to) understand! unlike a typical philosophy class, this has a truly historical emphasis that makes it side more with intellectual history, something that i think is crucial to reading these texts. overall, fantastic course and i've really learned so much! take it if you are at all interested in knowing about these german thinkers and their thoughts!
Great class. Highly recommended for anyone in the humanities - especially philosophy concentrators. For some reason, you can't learn Nietzsche, Weber, Adorno, Horkheimer, Benjamin, or Habermas in the philosophy department. But you can here.
This course covers a lot of the standard texts of German social theory and should be, for that reason alone, a class to audit for anyone with an interest in social/political theory or intellectual history. Professor Gordon is a compelling lecturer, and the narrative arc that he sketches for the course is helpful (to a point) in structuring the study of the subject. That being said, the focus of the course is much less on the intellectual history of social theory than it is on the exploration of the philosophical disputes at the core of social thought. Be aware that readings can (and will!) creep up on you (incidentally, this is a class in which it is well worth doing every reading, possibly before lecture)--there are a few weeks of Heidegger around the midpoint of the course that will seriously derail you if you don't stay on top of it. 

Go to office hours. Talk in section. Think deeply. Have fun.
Professor is a great lecturer, TF really knows his stuff
Without a doubt one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. If you have any interest in intellectual history i.e. in what the smartest people over the last 100 years have thought about society, culture, and reality itself, you HAVE to take it. Peter Gordon is a beyond gifted lecturer, one who can take the most slippery and knotted material, and spin it into lucid gold--all without sacrificing the intricacy in those knots. I often felt during lecture that I was transcending my narrow experience and that my daily, banal life fit into/was given meaning by massive networks of interpretation/theory/systems that have been swirling around people for decades. It was both one of the most abstract and most grounded courses I've ever taken because these theories and discussion ARE the structure of our everyday life. So go to lecture, do the reading, and struggle through the difficult moments in both. I often thought of them as really difficult workouts: requiring great focus and rigor to stick with, but providing an unparalleled (endorphin/ecstatic) burst at the end.
Be careful--both the instructor, and his TF Charles, were very open and interested in helping out, but these writings are more than just difficult: if you're new to this style of writing, they are wholly inaccessible. They do not assign any secondary sources, which seems foolhardy to me. I got less insight out of the class than I was hoping for.
This class is wonderful; it's one of the best I've taken at Harvard. The readings are immensely interesting and Prof Gordon has the exceptional ability of being able to elucidate these somewhat tricky texts. Even if you've taken SocStud10 and think you have this material down, you need to take this class with Prof. Gordon.
Finally you are going to get WHAT it's all about!
Make sure that you attend Professor Gordon's lectures - they're thought-provoking, informative, and he's brilliant. And try not to be overwhelmed and self-conscious in section: the reading is difficult and everyone has questions.
I learned more in the class and enjoyed going to lecture and section more so than in any other course I have taken at Harvard. Professor Gordon make the material very accessible to those who have little background in philosophy, and the sections are run very effectively. Both Professor Gordon and Charles were incredibly kind and accessibly-- I was truly impressed and appreciative of how much time and attention they devoted to students.
Decent course, lecture can be a little formal and dry sometimes, definitely saved by section. Reading is philosophy, so be prepared to take some time with it. Gordon is an effective lecturer, not very relatable, but his lecture was useful. Social Studies 10b really helped with this class.
Peter Gordons course was by far the most interesting and most well taught course I had this semester. Being exclusively exposed to analytical philosophy so far I was told over and over again that continental philosophy had to stay unclear and vague. This course proved the opposite. Peter Gordons ability to extract only small pieces from the authors works but present that in a crystal clear way was amazing. I had never been able to follow somebody for 90 minutes straight without a single power point slide and without losing attention at all. 
The workload can be rather overwhelming but with the lectures you will manage to understand the sometimes quite difficult text at least to an extent that the main points will become clear. However, going through the material the evening before probably wont work out too well. It is quite a lot!
Having Charles as a TF was super helpful. In section he could point you to the important passages immediately but he would also let the course discussion develop freely without getting out of hands. The amount of feedback essay preparation, the essays themselves and in reading responses (although sometimes his handwriting makes it hard to really appreciate the feedback :) was more than enough. Overall I can highly recommend the course especially if Charles is TFing again.
The reading list is absolutely unbeatable. Take this class. You'll have to prioritize the work on a weekly basis but it's so absolutely worth it. Lectures are consistently interesting and help to explain ideas you might not have gotten in the reading.
This class is by far one of the best classes I have attended. There wasn't one class where I didn't feel the need to think critically about the assumption in everyday life. Along with that, Professor Gordon is one of the most sincere Professor I have ever encountered. He really wants to sit down with his students and engage with them so that he may offer he knowledge and so that he may also learn from student.
tough reading load
Incredible course experience! One of the intellectually most stimulating and enriching experiences I have had at Harvard. Note, however, that this is a class on continental thinkers and much of the material is not presented in an analytically rigorous fashion. You will gain great insight and a solid overview over these important thinkers but you will not engage with arguments in an analytically (or logically) rigorous fashion. Nonetheless invaluable intellectual experience. Take it.
Excellent lectures are the highlight, and excellent section with great feedback to your writing also makes it an outstanding course.
A masterfully constructed syllabus and a model for a stimulating lecture course. Excellent Prof.!
Best and most difficult course I've taken at Harvard. I invite you to regard these two properties as necessarily related. I have never had my capacity for understanding more tested, nor have I ever improved that capacity so significantly.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvardand a course any humanities concentrator should take before graduating. This class entirely changed the way I viewed material in all of my other classes. The readings are life-changing, and Professor Gordon contextualizes, problematizes, and explains them brilliantly in lecture. The assignments are time-consuming, but they seem designed to make you think deeply about the issues at hand.
Take this class if you are at all interested in this subject matter. It is the only opportunity at Harvard to learn about this material, and Professor Gordon is one of the best.
Do some research on each of the theorists covered in the class. There aren't many, so if you find even two or three of them to be uninteresting, forget it.
This is one of the best classes at Harvard, bar none. Gordon is a wonderful lecturer, and really gives a sense of the historical milieu of the thinkers covered. That said, be prepared for the lectures to be a little less demanding at times than you'd like--there are a range of students taking the class with different preparation levels and that affects the course. If you're a social studies concentrator, don't hesitate and just take this class--even if you've read everyone already. Every week, every lecture is so rewarding I wish I could recommend beyond a 5!
This class is profoundly worth taking.
very interesting, though these German thinkers can become a bit repetitive/over-dramatic after awhile.
Absolutely take a class with Peter Gordon--he has constructed an interesting and challenging class, he is a great, enthusiastic, interesting lecturer, he gives good lecture notes, and he has good expectations of students.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading, not understand a lot of it, and feel immensely satisfied with the course. yeah, it's weird like that.
This class studies great thinkers, and you learn a lot through writing the essays. But the ideas and paper writing are very difficult, and you more guidance would certainly be useful.
If you love intellectual history or you feel the need to peel back the layers of political and commerical discourse in order to get at the core of what power is all about in our country and abroad, then sign up, sign up now!!!
I would not recommend this class to my worst enemy if Andrew Spadafora is the TF next year.
Go to every lecture! Will be some of the best you get at Harvard.
Organize your readings into doable parts. Read every day and dedicate prolonged periods of time during the weekend. Give it the time it deserves and you shall be rewarded.
Readings up through Benjamin are fantastic.  Adorno, Horkheimer, and Habermas are interesting and probably worth reading, but they're also kind of full of bs.  Professor Gordon is a great lecturer though, and you'll get a lot from the course.
If the writers on the syllabus look interesting to you, then definitely take this class - it will be challenging, but it will be worth it!
This is a fantastic course. If at all interested, take a Peter Gordon class.
This is the education you are meant to receive when you are in college.
This course is excellent (and to some degree essential) for anyone who wants a comprehensive background in intellectual history. Some of the texts in this course are not easy, so some kind of background in social theory is very helpful. Still, Professor Gordon makes the material very accessible.
This class is very rewarding if you are willing to devote a lot of time to it. Otherwise, it will quickly become a big liability--but the reading is really great, so taking it is worth it.
This was a great class. Peter Gordon is a fantastic lecturer and Andrew was an accessible and knowledgeable TF who was able to facilitate great discussions in section. One complaint was that the lectures focused primarily on explaining the readings, though in some ways this was good because the readings were very difficult.
The course material is fantastic, and Peter Gordon is a very clear and talented professor. He does have a very literal interpretation of texts, however. The texts themselves are earth-shattering enough, though, and often demand clarification.
A great course, dealing with heavy issues in modern western society. Not for the faint of heart -- you'll find yourself and your classmates in section conceding that there is no way to fix Western civilization (yes, even with Habermas).
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard (I'm a senior). The texts are difficult but highly interesting and rewarding. Prof. Gordon is the most eloquent and effective lecturer I have ever had. Do the readings and be prepared for section! It's a great opportunity to discuss the difficult materials with other intelligent people
A star-studded syllabus and a wonderful lecturer. This class is not without difficulty but you will walk away with a comprehensive understanding of the subject.
TAKE IT. Professor Gordon is an academic gem.
This course is hard - a ton of reading of really thick thinkers.  But if you can commit the time to reading, going to office hours, and critically thinking during the paper assignments, you'll come out the other end a much more enlightened individual.
The reading is very dense, and very difficult.  Do not take this class unless you love social theory.  Also, come background knowledge of Kant, Hegel, or any of the philosophers studied would be helpful. This course is much more of a philosophy than history course.  Professor Gordon is a wonderful lecturer however and really makes you love the subject matter.
