You may find your interest increasing as you continue with the course, especially after it stops seeming to be exclusively a history of religious development in the Near East and gets into the politics, alliances, and administrative aspects of the early Islamic community.
This is an excellent class that provides a sweeping, illuminating introduction to Islamic history. Professor Mottahedeh offers many insights from his own research, and his vision of the era is appealing and sophisticated. There's a good balance of basic concepts and more in-depth, rare knowledge; grad-students and undergrads will benefit equally. Also, some of the course materials are a delight: the primary-sources on the reading list are colorful, epic and exotic, and they make it very easy to see how a student might fall in love with studying this period. The amount of work required is very reasonable and the class is never stressful or overly taxing; I'd recommend it highly.
Great class with very fair workload. The professor is a real gem- don't miss any chance to take his courses.
Attend all lectures and do all readings as the you need to have done the readings to complete the assignments.
Best course here at Harvard.  Professor Mottahedeh is the foremost expert in his field.  If you don't take it, you will regret it.  Everyone should take a class from him.
Take this class! Professor Mottahedeh is really nice and incredibly knowledgeable. By the end of the semester, you'll have a really good background in early Islamic history. This is essential to understand current issues in the Middle East.
While lecture can sometimes be dry, there's a good amount of reading and there can be a lot of grads in the class, Professor Mottahedeh is an incredible scholar, and the material is absolutely fascinating (if you're into that sort of thing).
You will learn a great deal about the early centuries of Islam! Professor Mottahedeh is full of information about this period (and others) and giving a presentation to him was a great experience. It is not too difficult on the spectrum of history classes but you get a huge return in knowledge.
That Prof. Mottahedeh is an excellent scholar on the topic.
If you want to know the difference between Shiites and Sunnis or learn about the life of the Prophet and other caliphs, take this course.
I strongly feel that this is a part of history that Westerners need to understand with more sensitivity for the simple reason that it defines a cultural language that matters deeply to nearly 1.3 billion people.  The readings are interesting, but be careful with Arab names -- they can be confusing at times!
That Professor Mottahedeh's teaching and grading style means that you have to be self-motivated, since you can get away with doing very little if you wanted.
This course does not require previous knowledge of middle eastern history, but previous knowledge is extremely important. The course is taught primarily at a graduate level and due to the familiarity of graduate students with the material, it seems that undergraduates must simultaneously tackle both the depth and breadth of the subject matter to maintain equal footing.
It was not a typical introductory course, I often found myself lost amidst the in depth political history and questions by the various grad students in the class. It is very interesting, but undergraduates should know this it is rather advanced and contains a lot of graduate students.
If you're looking for a comprehensive overview of early Middle Eastern history, then this course is for you. The readings are very interesting and not too overwhelming, and so are Prof. Mottahedeh's lectures. Section is incredible!
A little dense but an important class if you want to understand Islam.
Was lost frequently because the class would break off on tangents concerning Islamic scholarship we had no knowledge of. It was clear from very early on that this was not going to be a visual learning class, there are no lecture slides, but the professor is so knowledgable that his lectures are okay without them it just could be so much better. Han Hsien is so fantastic however and a great TF.
You should go to the course prepared, otherwise it is not so helpful.
Roy Mottahedeh is not only a giant in his field, but loves talking to his students and is incredibly approachable (and funny!). Take this class (or any class) from him while you can. The material is definitely interesting, but nothing beats covering it with world-renowned scholar who would be happy to sit down at a cafe and talk with you for three hours straight. Undergrads especially: definitely take this class!!!
This is a course worth taking whether you're interest is in general history and historiography or if it is more specific to the region. Professor Mottahedeh is a true authority, and an extremely pleasant and accessible professor.
Mottahedeh is a really great guy, encouraging us to ask questions during his lectures and to chime in with our interests. Interest course without heavy assignments or unrealistic expectations. Get him while he's still at Harvard!
Prof. Mottahedeh is a legend and well worth the class. If this course is offered again, I would seriously consider taking it!
Don't be scared off by a dry lecturing style during shopping period. Mottahedeh has plenty of charm and wit, it just doesn't come out immediately. The course itself is simple and very rewarding. The readings are engaging and, better yet, incredibly manageable.
Take this class! Prof. Mottahedeh is a preeminent scholar who conducts himself and the class without any sort of pretense. I feel lucky to have taken the course.
keep up with the readings and try to understand chronology at multiple levels of abstraction or concreteness
