It is a very interesting course about topics that are not typically studied
A fantastic class. Professor Armitage is absolutely wonderful and very knowledgeable. I learned more than I thought possible about the Pacific and its inhabitants. However, there is a lot of reading and you have to be prepared to do all of it, as it is a small seminar-type class. As an MCB-concentrator, it was a really interesting class even for non-history majors.
Pacific history will force you to think in a way you almost certainly have not before. Professor Armitage, a master historian, will push your thought, too. This is a great class in history, one that should not push away those who do not think they are interested in the region. The thought processes and experience working with Professor Armjtage you will gain while taking this class would greatly help any academic work you perform in any theater.
This is an excellent course for both those interested in Pacific history (or an aspect of it) and also those generally interested in the conceptual bases of history, in asking questions about what goes into the "making" of history, and why. It's rare to get to study a field at the same time as the field is developing -- although Pacific history isn't brand new, there are still vibrant debates going on about what exactly Pacific history is and what it should be. Especially for those of us raised on American and European history, this course offers a refreshing recentering, and lends new insights into understanding history. The assignments help you understand your readings, and Professor Armitage is great at leading discussions. Highly recommended!
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. The material is fascinating, and Professor Armitage is fantastic. Seriously, if you have any interest in the Pacific region, take this class!
Great course on an emerging field in history. Professor Armitage is a fantastic professor.
This course is not only a great way to get to know the Pacific but also to extend your thinking about the practice (and the value) of oceanic history. Professor Armitage was very open about the opportunities and the potential limits, and so for anyone interested in looking through a different kind of lens, there is a tremendous amount of value here.
Professor Armitage is a great professor and the subject is a field for great growth.
This is a great class. Professor Armitage is awesome, and you lean an incredible amount by reading so many different histories of the Pacific.
This is a good fifth class to take.  The workload is manageable and the professor is passionate about the material.  Our class size was around 8 undergraduates and 5 or so graduates.  It was a very interesting discussion every week.  I enjoyed making friends with a handful of my classmates the most.
This course has a lot going for it. It is on a massively important but often ignored taught by a brilliantly knowledgeable and kind professor. There are interesting bits in it forever. However, sometimes it seemed like too much time was spent on discussing trivialities in some of the drier readings.
I would highly recommend this course as Prof. Armitage is fantastic. In addition, I took away a great knowledge about the pacific, probably more than originally expected. A warning-- if you're not a history concentrator, you may find the papers difficult to write.
Wonderful, wonderful course. For anyone who's interested in the Pacific, or more broadly, in the ways that the telling of history operates differently in different regions and cultural contexts.
It was exciting to work on a relatively new and growing field, and the conference associated with this course was a lot of fun.
