Professor Rothschild is brilliant and has an impressive breadth of knowledge; you can learn a lot from her.  But she devolved so many syllabus design responsibilities (choosing weekly topics and readings) to students that the class lacked some coherence.  The more you engage her directly on historiographical questions, questions about the disciplinary relationship between history and economics, and suggestions for course readings, the more you will get out of the course.
Wonderful class if you are interested in either subject (history, economics) and the intersection between the two
this class is a great opportunity to learn about a broad spectrum of issues related to economics and history. Prof. Rothschild is an absolutely wonderful professor, and the variety of topics ensures a diverse experience throughout the semester.
Professor Rothschild is inspiring.
Take for a broad introduction to economic history; however, includes topics on social history
Professor Rothschild is a fabulous resource for graduate students, and this course is a great opportunity to learn material while thinking about syllabus and class construction.
Prof Rothschild makes the course interesting by varying the material and the sessions. For example, we made visit to the Baker library and also held a joint class with the Law school
To history graduate students: The readings in economic theorywhich make up maybe one-quarter to one-third of all readingsmay be challenging (or downright incomprehensible) for the non-specialist, but you are guaranteed to 'get something' out of many of the readings from this course. You will read plenty of accessible economic history and straight-up history articles. The professor is adept at speaking across the gap between disciplines, and she does not expect every student to grasp every single reading (it's grad school, there are no quizzes!)only that each student bring the enthusiasm, patience, and open-mindedness to reading and discussion (the undergrad econ concetrators will school you, anyway). Plus, the opportunity to select and present readings for one or two weeks on student-generated themes (such as Empire, Environment, Informal Economy, War Economy) ensures that your own interests and expertise will be engaged with by the entire classa great prep for teaching, or just a chance to show how you think your own field has produced cool ideas to offer others.
It's a great way to get exposure to a very exciting branch of scholarship. The class format is great for undergraduates to get a taste of graduate students and a much more academically rigorous way of thinking.
The course has plenty of potential: it's a fantastic subject with a renowned professor. Unfortunately, it depends on student-led seminars that present only loosely linked papers and ideas. So the course feels unfocused, and people with different research interests end up talking past one another.
I would recommend this course to students who are broadly interested in economic themes and who would like to get a taste of how economic history can be written. The professor leaves the student a lot of freedom to choose readings they are interested in - with the disadvantage that the readings are very diverse and not always connected. There is no concrete learning outcome of this class, but since the work load is very low this is a good class for complementing other more demanding courses. I feel this is a class you profit from in the long term instead of having the immediate feeling of having crammed a lot of knowledge in one semester.
