This was the most useful seminar I took in my first two years. You get different faculty viewpoints, not knowledge channelled from the viewpoint of single faculty -- you see actual scholarly work in progress and the kind of obstacles it runs into (as opposed to the finished work we are always presented with, this gives an idea of the process and a tangible feel of the obstacles that come up in terms of sources, the limits of categories of analysis, writing,etc...) -- more importantly, this was a safe and friendly environment to make my first public comment (class presentation are not quite a good proxy) -- I got periodical individual feedback on my research project throughout the year from a group of people who had read it in advance and came prepared with comments, which was much more helpful that then comments you get from a single faculty member. This was extremely useful both in preparation for my generals, and the paper I wrote for it turned into my prospectus.
The access to WIGH fellows is an amazing opportunity.
This class is very intense in the beginning and then intermittent for the rest of the time. The atmosphere of the class can be a bit cold at times, giving the impression that one must always say the right thing in discussion or risk judgement. This discourages all but the most fully formed responses.
The format of this course is great. The diverse audience makes sure students get more than one professional viewpoint, rather than absorbing knowledge channeled through the single viewpoint of one professor. It also gives first-year students a feel of real professional practice (as opposed to a managed classroom experience).
be prepared to work independently; take advantage of talking with as many of the fellows as possible
This class is an excellent opportunity to gain exposure to global history and write a research paper, but it is not necessarily the best choice for a systematic or thorough introduction to global history.
This is a course where you begin to learn to do history differently.
