For specialists. This class will teach you all manner of things about available sources on Soviet history, but at the expense of whatever little sanity may remain to you after a semester of graduate school. If you would benefit from the skills developed in this class, chances are you're required to take it. If not, please interpret that as a sign.
Plan on taking this course in conjunction with a light course load.  The weekly assignments in the first several weeks are extremely time-consuming (20 hours per week outside of class was not unusual).  These weekly assignments can be extremely useful and interesting, most of all if you do them with an eye to your own research interests rather than worrying about checking off everything on the (lengthy) list of requirements.
This is the best course I have ever taken at either undergrad or graduate level. This is because the instructor is excellent, the intellectual atmosphere created throughout is inspiring, and the focus on developing research skills is rare and really well-formulated. It's a lot of work, though!
Be ready for an intensive seminar that is extremely demanding. One may find himself or herself spending three good days a week for completing the assignments alone, and I know that people have been writing anywhere between 10-25 pages per week when responding to the assignments. On the other hand, this work is extremely productive, informing, and encouraging for those who are planning to specialize in Soviet, or even pre-Soviet imperial history. The source material covered in the course is unbelievable. A solid research paper is guaranteed, unless one runs into unexpected complications.
The course is an absolute must for anyone who wants to study Russian or Soviet history, and although very demanding, I would be surprised to hear of another Soviet research seminar in the country that prepares its students so well for their dissertation research.
Find a good topic very early and stick to it. Otherwise it is likely to be an exercise in frustration.
If you ever want to do archival research in the former Soviet Union or study Russian, Ukrainian etc. history in depth, this course is essential - and a great experience at that.
This is a very useful course for practical reasons, in that it provides the practice in research methods (archives, other historical source material, bibliographic material) that is not usually found in other graduate courses.
Professor Martin is a true master and mentor of Soviet history. He has such a deep passion that you would be intrigued by everything he talks about Soviet archives. Yes, the weekly assignment took a lot of time, but Professor Martin always offered critical opinions of your incompletely formulated ideas and pointed out potential directions by which your project may progress. Besides, you would also get third opinions from other students, and contribute your own to their projects! Anyone being serious about professional studies of Soviet history should take this seminar.
This class is as hard as everyone says, and as rewarding as everyone says. The only caveat I would give is that if you don't have a specific interest that you want to look at, you may end up casting about somewhat randomly, not finding something entirely satisfactory to do your final project on, and then still having to spend a TON of time on a project that you're not that invested in and isn't going to be very good. But even though that happened to me I'd still take the class again.
This course is extremely challenging--there are high expectations for the amount of work you will accomplish each week and the pace can be relentless. That being said, you will leave the course with an amazing foundation of research experience and source-knowledge to navigate the Soviet history resources at Harvard and beyond.
Everything i had heard about the enormous weekly time commitment was true, but everything i had heard about how enormously valuable this course is was also true.
This course is extremely useful for anyone interested in doing research using Soviet sources. It is very work-intensive, but the effort is worth it.
