Professor Press is a wonderful professor, with a keen interest in undergraduates, a wickedly dry sense of humour, and a real command of the material at hand. Taking a class with him is a pleasure, and if you get the opportunity to you should seize it.
This was my first history class at Harvard (I'm a junior social studies concentrator) and I really enjoyed it. This was a really great discussion-based class. There were about 20 students, which meant that everyone could talk a lot or a little, depending on what they wanted. Professor Press is really chill and great at asking questions and facilitating discussion. He'll stop and lecture for a bit if he thinks we're a bit lost or needs to clarify something. A lot of reading, but the only work was weekly response papers, then a final paper at the end. But the final paper topic is really broad so you can write about whatever your interested in. Great if you're interested in African colonial history and like to learn in seminar-style classes!!!!!
Take this course with Professor Press! Readings are dense, but assignments are only weekly response papers and then one 18-20 page paper. However, Professor Press is an amazing instructor and he is gifted at making complicated issues seem easier to understand. This has been one of my favorite classes this semester because of Professor Press's instruction!
This class is a great way to understand why Africa is as problematic as it is today. When you see the individual European powers jockeying for position it is easy to understand how their departure has left Africa picking up the pieces. It also is a fair look at history--not a single track liberal look, but a well documented look with a variety of secondary sources assigned. It is a lot of reading, but Professor Press is amazing and this course would be nothing without him and his expertise on the subject. He's also incredibly nice and a very good Professor.
Not a bad way to knock out seminar requirement, but discussions were often lackluster. I'd have appreciated more engagement and active direction by the course leader, but he's a really nice guy.
It's great at getting a European perspective but teaches you nothing about the African perspective
This class is very good, especially if you have an interest in the material. Although previous experience with the subject area is by no means required, I found that most students in the class did have such experience, and I felt slightly less able to contribute to discussions as a result. That being said, it is very interesting and provides a great overview of European colonialism in Africa, a subject that has certainly remained very relevant. Dr. Press is very enthusiastic about the material, and his presentations were always enjoyable. He is additionally very accessible outside of class and very supportive during the writing process. I definitely recommend this seminar, especially if you are interested in the subject.
Dr. Press is a great teacher to have if you've never taken a seminar or history class before. He's very laid back, but at the same time willing to meet and help you work out your final research paper. Beware, though, the readings are very long and very dry.
Its a great course. Will expose students to topics on care giving and health, issues that are often overlooked
Dr. Press is fantastic, and this class is very interesting. It is great if you have an interest in colonialism, or would like an introduction to African history in the 19th and 20th centuries.
If you are interested in imperial history, this class is a great one to take! It covers a wide array of countries within the context of the Scramble.
If you have any interest in imperial history at all, take this course. Not only is this course itself interesting, but Professor Press is also an amazing teacher. I have never had a professor who is so available (usually responds to emails within 30 minutes), encouraging, and kind while also being incredibly knowledgable.
Only take this class if you are truly interested in the topic, and are curious enough about it to commit to writing a 20-page research paper.
This class was great. The Scramble for Africa is a pivotal moment not only in imperial history, but in the history of what is to follow as well. The class had a fair amount of reading, but it was manageable and very interesting. The discussion was fun and lively and you can definitely understand the implications of what happened in Africa and why it happened, to this today. Professor Press is a great lecturer and section leader. The class was entertaining and informative. The best combination. If you are interested at all in imperial history, economic history, African History or else, just take it!
It is unbelievably interesting and one of the best professors at Harvard
