This course isn't being offered again next year, but Prof. Loveluck is a fantastic teacher. Beware of papers though, start them early.
Professor Loveluck is extremely dedicated to this subject matter, and that comes through in his lectures. The essays and exams are a very fair reflection of lecture material and as long as you've paid attention, attended class, and participated in section, you will be absolutely fine. The course is more focused on archaeology then I realized, but it is a great class to learn about a subject you most likely will never get the chance to, and from someone who is an expert in their field.
This is an outstanding class that I would wholeheartedly recommend. The material is fascinating, the assignments are completely manageable, and Professor Loveluck is a fantastic lecturer. If you have any interest in the history of Britain or in archaeology, you should absolutely take this class. You should be prepared to do a fair amount of reading and writing, but the workload is never unfair or unmanageable, and the assignments are always posted well in advance.
This class is amazing!  If you are interested in medieval Britain I would definitely recommend it.  Just be aware that it has a significant archaeological focus - most of the readings discuss excavations and material culture, rather than primary historical sources.  This is not a bad thing, just something to be aware of.
This is a fantastic course. If I'd known how hard it was going to be, I probably would have taken it pass-fail. That being said, I enjoyed Professor Loveluck's lecture style a lot and the material is absolutely fascinating. I know so much about medieval Britain and Ireland now, and it was really fun to learn it. Just make sure you reach out to them about how to write the papers, because the British style of paper-writing is a little different from ours, and stay on top of the material because it's hard to synthesize come exam-time, which is a massive portion of your grade. Completely recommend.
This is an excellent class with a very engaging professor and TF. You will learn a lot, and also think about the history from a more archaeological perspective, which is fascinating and was new for me.
This course is an excellent choice for anyone with an interest in the history of the British isles. This course is a great choice for archeology enthusiast, but is also taught in a manner so that it is very accessible to students with no archeology background.
Professor Loveluck is a great lecturer who consistently makes the material interesting, Patrick is a wonderful TF to have section with, and the material is varied enough that there's something for anyone interested in history
Awesome class if you are interested in a history class centered in archaeology.
This course is taught very well. The professor and section leader were both very accessible, the lectures/sections were engaging, and the assignments helped me to learn a lot.
Prof. Loveluck is one of the best professors I've come across while at Harvard. His enthusiasm and knowledge of the material were infectious.
One of my favorite classes that I have taken so far.
Loveluck is a lot of fun, and the course is super interesting for anyone with even passing interest in medieval British history.
Very interesting class with a very reasonable workload.
