This is an exciting and rigorous class that teaches you a lot about differences within the French empire but that also allows you to produce a strong piece of research by the end of term.  Really fun and captivating class.
Mary Lewis is a phenomenal teacher - take her class! Hist 82d is structured perfectly.  You learn a lot about French colonialism through interesting readings and lively class discussions. The research project is also highly rewarding and not very stressful (there are multiple checkpoints throughout the semester helping you keep on track). The feedback you receive as you work on this project, both from Prof. Lewis and Stephanie (TF), is invaluable and unparalleled. They are really invested in helping you conduct original research. Definitely one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
This class is very challenging but you learn so much. The professor is incredibly intelligent and knowledgeable and also very interested in your ideas and thoughts.
This is a FABULOUS course. The reading is fascinating and never overwhelming, and the class discussion is lively. Professor Lewis and Stephanie are great when it comes to writing your final paper. The comments they give you on your preliminary bibliography, annotated bibliography, analyses of primary and secondary documents, and on your draft are truly helpful--they really guide you in the process.
This class is phenomenal! Engaging from the start, Professor Lewis works very hard to ensure that every student walks away having understood the material and learned something new. It doesn't matter if one lacks a background in French Colonialism or French history, the readings alone are enough to offer all of the background necessary. Also, Prof. Lewis is always willing to meet outside of class and explain/discuss further. Don't miss out on a great opportunity to learn and grow through this exceptional course.
I never thought that history could be interesting. Weekly discussions can be very difficult if you don't do the readings, but the final paper is very rewarding.
A lot of work but awesome.
It's a great class with an excellent professor.  Everyone should take a class like this at some point in their Harvard experience.
Professor Lewis is one of the most knowledgeable people on the subject and she has clearly given great thought to the structure of the course and readings. I think anyone remotely interested in colonialism or French history would benefit tremendously from taking this course. There is a heavy reading load, but if you put time into this course you will certainly get a lot out of it.
You get what you put it! If you didn't do the readings, I would imagine this class would be incredibly boring. But I did the readings and felt like I gained a lot from it.
This is a great course to take.  The work is completely manageable and worth it especially since the class meets only once a week.  Also, the subject is really interesting.
This is a good research seminar with good discussions.
