If you don't like Conrad, don't take this course.  If you didn't like him in high school, don't fool yourself into giving him a second chance.
If you are interested in a hist and lit seminar and like Joseph Conrad, this is the perfect class for you. It has a great reading list and Prof. Jasanoff is great. Just keep in mind that it is very lit heavy.
This class will give you a very interesting look into the British Empire, but be sure to be prepared to wade through the Conrad. Conrad is an incredible writer, but he is very dense, and if you aren't ready for that, and if you're looking for constant excitement in the books, you will often be disappointed. So, in general, make sure to do the Conrad readings all the way through, as the discussions will be much more meaningful; he is definitely an author all people should be familiar  with, but he does take quite a bit of getting used to.
The readings are interesting and holding up fiction in a historical light makes for unique analysis.
Be prepared to do a moderate amount of reading and a few big assignments throughout the semester, but on the whole you will definitely enjoy the fantastic discussions to be had in class. Professor Jasanoff is fantastic at moderating stimulating and intellectual conversations and I am happy to have taken this course, if for no other reason, than that I was given the chance to have great discussions about imperialism, anarchism, racism and Conrad's work with a faculty member as amazing she.  Be prepared for freedom on your writing assignments, but be aware that with some freedom in choosing a topic, you will be required to offer a fair amount of defense for your writing.
I thought the class was good. It can sometimes overlap with other courses offered at Harvard on  British History--Ferguson's courses, for example, and also Prof. Jasanoff's other courses. Overall good. If you enjoyed in Conrad in high school, you get to read his best works again. Reading list is manageable, you can usually skim the secondary sources and get the essence of their argument.
Even if I did not discover a real passion for Joseph Conrad, this was nonetheless a great class-whether or not every bit of the subject matter was something that immediately fascinated me, I nonetheless enjoyed all of it due to the thoughtful and engaging way the course was put together.
