This is an excellent course. The readings are worthwhile and painless, section and lectures are quite good, and the workload is completely reasonable. If you want to know more about the context for a lot of really important change in this country that is highly relevant today, look no further.
I loved this class; the 60s are incredibly fascinating - I still can't get over how many different things all happened during this period; I also went in thinking that it would not be super relevant to today, but the teaching staff proved me very wrong, since the class is largely about how social movements work, and social movements will always be relevant; on top of this, the professor and TFs were wonderful, and the class was not a huge amount of work
The thing you have to be careful with in this course is its focus on participation. If you're a student who learns more internally (read: you don't need to hear yourself talk for 60 percent of section), you may have trouble demonstrating your participation in the class. You can expect to make an A or A- on the exams and paper, so the way they separate students at the end is through section participation. I often found myself frustrated because humanities concentrators in my section would just completely take over, really making it difficult for me to participate in section and in class.
I would say that this is a great Gen Ed because it accomplishes exactly what it should. It provides a good introduction to an important topic -- the American sixties -- and left me feeling like a more informed citizen.
Readings are engaging, as are lectures and sections.
There is a lot of reading for this class, which is interesting but a bit excessive at times.  The lectures are interesting and it helps to have done the reading beforehand.
It is a lot of fun and you will learn a lot about stuff that you think you know about already.
This class is super interesting, well-taught, and honestly fun. It's a subject that is extremely important to the way our country functions today, and especially from the perspective of someone who engages in activism, it's really interesting to see where lots of our ideas and actions come from. There is a lot of reading for a gen-ed, but the exams and paper are really manageable. Andrew was a great TF and Professor McGirr is an excellent lecturer (even if she sometimes gets caught up and goes a little long). She is also really invested in getting to know the people in the class, which is awesome and really refreshing for a gen ed. Would definitely recommend this class.
The reading in this course are awesome and definitely the main draw. Professor McGirr is a very spirited lecturer, but her presentations are not always the easiest to understand.
If you need your USW requirement, TAKE THIS COURSE!! I absolutely loved it; it was definitely my favorite gen ed I've taken at Harvard. I hadn't taken a history class since AP history in high school, and I found this class to be very informative and engaging about the 1960s. Do keep in mind that there is a good deal of reading for the class (about 10 books rented from the COOP, translating to about 200-250 pages of reading per week), but I think it is the case that all USW classes require a bit of reading. With that said, the readings are quite good for the most part! If you have any interest in the 1960s - from politics to social movements - I would highly recommend this class!
This class is amazing! You will leave with not only a survey of the 1960s but also an understanding of how the social movements of the decade have shaped the present politically, socially, and culturally. While there is a lot of reading, most of it is fascinating and there is a lot of variety in style/angle. There is also not much work on a weekly basis beyond a short reading response. Major assignments included midterm exams, which were very fair, and a final research paper that required analysis of primary sources. Professor McGirr's lectures are incredibly engaging, and the TFs ask really thought-provoking questions during section. This is a wonderful gen-eddefinitely take it!
This class could be nicknamed "101 reasons to apologize for being a white guy from the south"
This is a generally painless Gen Ed that is genuinely interesting to boot. Although Prof. McGirr assigns a lot of reading, this class is worthwhile and low maintenance - weekly responses, 1 final paper, a midterm, and a final. Section discussions are fruitful and clarifying, and rarely feel like a waste of time. Readings are interesting, and the lectures are well-structured and engaging. Andrew (TF) gives helpful feedback on your paper and actually takes the time to read and comment on your weekly responses. I highly recommend taking this course if you're interested in U.S. history - this time period is especially fascinating.
You have to go to lecture, but they are enjoyable lectures.
This is a really excellent class. Professor McGirr does a great job connecting themes from lecture to lecture. And these themes are some of the most applicable to our lives as students and as American citizens.
Material is cool, section is great with Irvin, lectures are not that great.
This is an amazing class. I learned a lot and would highly recommend it to anyone even remotely interested in the '60s.
Through four semesters, this is my favorite course at Harvard. The lectures were really engaging and section is full of thought-provoking debate (props to Andrew for leading great discussions). I really can't say enough good things about this course. Engaging material, wonderful instructor. Convinced me to switch my concentration to history.
The readings are impossible, but the themes of the course are fantastic. You can still get a lot out of lecture without sacrificing your life to the reading list.
Awesome course overall. I think the material covered in this class is just really interesting and the teaching staff does a great job with it. Professor McGirr is a good lecturer. Just note the amount of readings that the class has ahead of time - they are substantial, but by no means a waste of time. The reading are good, but they just take a lot of time to get through. I'd definitely take the class again if I had were to do it over. Just not the easiest of gen-eds, although tests and paper grading is very fair (not sure if they will curve end grades - but if they curve it at the end, I think that would make it most fair.)
Take this class. Prof McGirr is an amazing lecturer, the readings are fascinating and crucial to understand protest movements of the 20th century US. Sections are engaging and almost fun. The level of reading is worse some weeks than other, but the reading material is always interesting, and it's never the end of the world if you can't completely finish it. You get to read some of the most important and influential books of the century! Also, the exams aren't too difficult if you pay attention in class, and the final paper is pretty fun because you can write about literally anything in the class that you found interesting. A great way to get your feet wet in the history department, or just an intellectually fulfilling way to get your USW out of the way.
A LOT of reading.
this class covers one of the most interesting times in history; there is incredible variety and color in the readings with which students can engage deeply
This course was really interesting. I learned so much about the 60s.
Although there's a lot of reading, this was a great US in the world- I don't know why it's not more popular! Although it's specific to the 1960s, we start by assessing the 1950s and go into 1970s. Professor McGirr is really passionate about this topic so if you're interested in the 1960s, definitely take it!
This class is incredible. The material is fascinating and exciting, and it holds lessons applicable to today. The workload for the class is pretty fair, and not very stressful; we only had to do an email response for the readings each week. Beware though, there is a large amount of reading (always over 200 pages, at least).
Great class. The readings are so interesting, you'll want to read them all!
This class has interesting material, great readings, and not much work on a weekly basis.  The section was a lot of fun and helpful and we used debates and other activities to learn the material.
This class is wonderful not only in terms of understanding the 1960s but also understanding many present social and political conditions that were affected by decisions and movements int eh 1960s. It gives you a very important view on some of the most controversial movements.
I think this class was good, but it was sometimes hard to directly follow a storyline throughout a lecture - sometimes it seemed to jump from topic to topic.
This is a very good class. Professor McGirr is a great lecturer, and talks about highly relevant material. The readings are kind of a lot, but honestly you can get the necessary main points by looking up summaries online if you want. What bothered me was the arrogant liberalism--if you didn't agree that American actions in Vietnam were genocide, or that studying Economics or working on Wall Street was fundamentally evil, you might feel uncomfortable in section at times especially because the TF as well as the student agreed with that viewpoint. That being said, if you could get over that occasional uncomfortableness I would recommend this class.
It is difficult and time consuming but an interesting topic and I learnt alot.
This class was super interesting, and I am so glad I took it. I learned so much about the 60's and postwar America I did not know, and it significantly shaped my beliefs. This class is a little hard to skate by not doing the readings very in-depth though. The readings are long and intense.
This is an incredible course that really opens your mind to the impact of the 60s on American, many effects of which are still feeling and seeing again today. The high reading load filtered out all the senior spring lazy people and only encouraged passionate people who will do their readings and contribute in section to join the course. It really opened my eyes to systemic failures in the structures around us: whether that be laws, policies, and culture that adds bias. The class ended up being full of SJWs (social justice warriors) who were respectful and considerate (not in your face as SJWs sometimes have the reputation for being). I was also worried the class would skew very left (I try to find classes that show both sides especially at Harvard); we spent a lot of time studying the rise of the conservative movement in California which I thought was very interesting and important to understand the period generally.
This was not a perfect class, but as far as US-World gen eds go, it's a great way to kick it out of the way. It was extremely informative given the political climate of the US nowadays, and relevant as well. I would say that as someone who does not belong to either major US political party, I could see that the class is very skewed in terms of its own stance, which came out a lot in lecture. As long as you keep in mind that you have to decide how evil/destructive/helpful/good certain parties are for yourself, you will be fine. But yes, this class did smack of a certain political agenda which I felt impeded the actual material at times.
The exams are the kind of exams where you have to study everything and are tested on a very small portion of the material. Otherwise the class is interesting.
The range of interesting readings makes this a memorable class, and the teaching staff clearly put effort into collecting materials and connecting the ideas from different movements and events. Towards the end the class felt more centered on facts than ideas. The questions we discussed in section could have been more specific. The reading for each week was significant, and there was also a required reading response every week, so you will need to make some time for this course--the final paper was 10 pages and required you to work with primary sources, although my TF was quite helpful with this.
This class is a pretty interesting and easy way to fulfill your US in the World gen-ed requirement.  The professor is super knowledgable, but be prepared to take notes off what she says rather than the lecture slides.  There is a lot of reading for the class, so keep that in mind. Otherwise, it's a great way to take a more in depth look at the various movements and events during and surrounding the 60s.
This course offers a great view into the United States in the 1960s.  Lectures are consistently very interesting and engaging.  There are a ton of readings, and while many of them are really interesting, some of it does feel like busy work or a little repetitive.  Sections are also engaging, but the final paper has very little structure.  Make sure you have experience putting together a very opened ended history paper, because the entire process is left up to you.
An amazing class that confronts essential questions in U.S. history and the history of the world, where we are, and where we are going. The texts are all so interesting and engaging. Truly the best gen ed I have taken.
This course is very interesting and rewarding, but the reading does take up a bit of time and the material can often be dense. If you are looking for an low-effort class, this probably isn't for you. But the assignments are manageable (short responses every week, one final paper, a midterm, and a final).
This is a great way to learn American history and understand why we have the problems that we do.
This course was very informative and interesting, but there is a lot of material to study for the midterm and the final and there are no practice exams/questions to adequately prepare. Also, the lecture slides were not put up online which made it extremely difficult to study the lecture material. The readings are also very time consuming.
Finally! A Gen Ed class that actually fulfils the aims of the Gen Ed Program and is actually worth taking! Perfect level of challenging but accessible to an outsider to the field - a Gen Ed class that didn't just feel like a pointless requirement where I didn't actually learn anything. The material was great, Professor McGirr is thoroughly engaging and enthusiastic, and it felt important and relevant to contemporary culture and politics.
Interesting topic, terrible Gen-Ed. A lot of reading, a midterm, a final, and a final paper; plus McGirr is not exactly the best lecturer. Would not recommend unless you are REALLY interested in the 1960's.
readings are unnecessary. prepare for exams by reading a textbook. final paper is graded according to a strict and unsophisticated rubric (I'm not kidding. "has a thesis"; "uses citations and page numbers"). section discussions (mandatory attendance with significant participation grade) very surface level. weekly UNGRADED response papers.
There are so few options out there for interesting USW classes--you should definitely take this one! Professor McGirr is a great lecturer and is really passionate about the subject matter. You'll definitely come away with a better sense of what has happened in the US in the past half-century and how that affects things like the current 2016 election.
The course material is fascinating. I am now highly interested in the 1960s, as well as US history in general, thanks to this course! The lectures are very engaging and the workload manageable.
You will learn a lot in this class, but it is a lot of work.
This class is going to move quickly, but every individual turn is incredibly interesting. I don't think there is any other class like this one with the same breadth of information covering the same number of movements, interest groups, and upheavals. This class makes policy just as exciting as protest in the scope of 1960s history.
So happy I took this class for US & the World. I loved it. The course material is super interesting -- I actually looked forward to writing reading responses -- the lectures are engaging and the teaching staff is accessible.
There's a lot of reading.
Interesting material, but it doesn't acknowledge everything from the 1960s. You should go to lecture because McGirr doesn't post slides or lecture notes. The focus of exams is on IDs and while the class seems to focus on the bigger picture and deconstructing dominant ways of analyzing history in moments or focus people, it seems to ironically test the class in a normative fashion.
