I would tell students that an interest in domestic culture in the 19th century would be a strong prerequisite. If you are not inherently interested in the material, you will not enjoy this course. The work load is very manageable.
Very little work, but very boring.
I think the class was extremely helpful in its approaches and methodologies.  I learned more than I could have ever hoped about material culture.  However, some weekly field trips/lectures often left students un-ethusiastic about the subject manner.  The first half of the course seemed completely disjointed from the latter.
The professors are fantastic, but the course can feel meandering and repetitive. However, access to primary sources is unparalleled, and learning about material history from these two is great.
The sooner you start on and seriously work on your final paper, the happier you will be during Reading Period.
I would recommend this class for the final paper students produce at the end. Though the relevancy between class discussions and final project may not be immediately apparent during the semester, the course readings and discussions come together effectively while writing the final paper.
it completely depends on the museum that it is taught in conjunction with- make sure you know what genre of history the objects are going to address
Choose an object that you're into. It will be a blast.
The class is very interesting, you learn a lot about Harvard museums and artifacts. Also, it really changes your perspective on day to day object. Make sure you choose an object that you really like for the final project.
This course is useful to anyone interested in studying material culture.
Professor Ulrich is incredible and taking a class with her (especially if you are a history student) is an incredible experience.
Great research seminar - introduces you to archives and museums at Harvard and really gives you a behind the scenes look. Telling stories through objects is definitely not intuitive for everyone, but we were really taught how to think about these ideas critically. Not just for people interested in the colonial period, as well!
A fantastic opportunity to explore Harvard's museums and collections and pursue a unique type of research.
Only take this course if you are comfortable writing in a true "historical mode" as the professors have unreasonable expectations and don't spend a lot of time assisting you with this variable of writing.
The enthusiasm of Professors Ulrich and Gaskell was infectious and enthusiastic. Prior to this course, I was intimidated by objects because I felt that I didn't have enough subject knowledge to talk about them. During this course, I learn that my observations were valid and informative. I so enjoyed class discussions and visiting various campus museums.
This class is very rewarding because you get to work with one object and see how much you can learn from it. It also uses Harvard's Collections very well. The professors are great!
This class is fun and interactive and demands critical thinking. You will not look at the world the same afterward.
This class is really a once in a lifetime opportunity.  You are surrounded with these amazing pieces of history, and are taught by incredible professors (and the amazing Kristen, our teaching fellow).
This was the best class I have taken at Harvard - enthusiastic and engaging instructors, varied concepts discussed, great readings, ability to visit many of the collections, the possibility of working on a topic that really interests you.
