This is an excellent class.
If you DO the readings, you will get a lot out of this course! The professor and TF are very constructive. Although since they mostly gave positive reviews to everyone and remained constantly affirmative, it was a little hard to judge exactly how well I was doing. Also, the professor was very busy this semester and I'm sure will be in future semesters as well. So if you want a lot of personal attention, you will have to fight extra hard for it and patiently wait for her availability.
Professor Elkins is great and the material is interesting, but the class was focused on peer presentations. I felt like it would be a better class if Elkins had led more discussion.
Elkins is fantastic.  The earlier you start on the term paper the better, but it's really rewarding if you give it the time it deserves.
I thought this was a great class, but much more theoretical than I expected. I think Social Studies people will find that there's not enough theory and history concentrators might find it has too much theory. There's a lot of reading, but it's manageable since each week a pair of students does a presentation outlining the reading.
Everyone ought to know about the events we discussed in this class.
Professor Elkins is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard, and this class really pushes you to think about history critically.  It challenges the conservative approach to history with interdisciplinary methods and source bases.  It was very challenging but very rewarding.
This class is an ideal way to prepare for future research papers of a thesis. The readings are interesting and not excessive, and discussions are lively. The timeline of paper assignments is fair, and will actually help you start researching and writing at an early stage.
Professor Elkins makes a difficult and complicated subject truly interesting and engaging.
Should have a background in history and don't leave the paper till the end!
This class was a great experience. First, it taught me so much about some moments in imperial and colonial history that I completely ignored. It was fought, sometimes I was not sure I was going in the right directions and the readings were dense and not readily accessible. But it was all worth it. Professor Elkins and Joshua were of great help to me throughout the whole process of writing my research paper. If you think that your paper will relate to Imperial History in some form and nature, than take this class. It does not matter if you are doing imperial history in the 17th, 18th or any other century. This class will be just as relevant. You will find it very helpful and plus it's a great preparation for the type or research and writing that your thesis will require from you.
The professor and teaching fellow were both brilliant.  The course material is interesting and covered in depth. You will learn more than you think is possible. Your writing and critical-thinking skills will improve. One academic warning: most of the research portion of the course lacks clear guidance, so you need to be a self-starter.  However, I must strongly warn you against taking this course. Academic recommendations aside, this course is soul sucking. I know that sounds harsh, but I cannot think of a more appropriate descriptor. If you attempt to succeed at both the reading and research portions of the course, it will devour all of your free time.  A course has never made me this unhappy in all of my time at Harvard. Until the course workload becomes more manageable, I must strongly discourage you from taking this course.
This course is hard and challenging but you'll be hard pressed to find a more rewarding class at Harvard. The paper requirements are spaced out enough that it shouldn't/doesn't need to be a mad dash to the finish line. The first week's reading is a lot of theory and if you find it confusing and painful, just know that all the weeks aren't like that but you use the grounding that the theory gave you and it's useful. I learned about an aspect of the Empire I did not know about before. My ignorance still troubles me but I'm so glad I'm more informed now.Take the class, you won't regret it.
This class can seem repetitive at times with the same themes (the British are bad, violence was extraordinarily ordinary, etc.)but having such an intensive focus on one area of history is really helpful. Prof. Elkins teaches you how to think critically and analytically and the course material is engaging and eye-opening. The process of crafting the final paper is manageable due to the extensive feedback and opportunities to meet with Elkins and the TF but it also really helps if you make an effort in all the assignments you turn in. This class will teach you a lot about writing and thinking, and incorporates a bit of theory, and it is one of the better seminars I have taken at Harvard.
Take this class if you're interested in the topic. If you genuinely are interested in learning about these conflicts, there's not a better place on earth to do it. Professor Elkins and Joshua are amazing. Easily one of the best experiences I've had at Harvard.
If you are at all considering this course, TAKE IT.  Professor Elkins is a remarkable academic force, whose brilliance and charisma shine in a close seminar setting.  Joshua, the course TF, is also incredibly brilliant, available for insightful feedback and research guidance, and has great rapport with Professor Elkins.  A truly enriching Harvard experience, and what I think will soon be a great tradition in the History Department course offerings.
I had high hopes for this course. However, Professor Elkins and Joshua should have clearly written out their expectations for the assignments and presentations. More feedback throughout the course would have been helpful. Professor Elkins should not have controlled the class discussions as much and allowed students to have more of a voice in the course. It felt like she prioritized her research over preparing for the course and being available to students. It was difficult to contact her. I thought in a seminar that I would get the opportunity to know her, but that did not exist.
This class was one of the most challenging and fulfilling academic experiences I have had and will likely have. If you want to push the boundaries of how you understand and "do" history, this is a great class. However, this class will dominate your academic life (and often the rest of your life) so plan accordingly. Do not take with another heavy class. Elkins is terrific, but also very demanding and there is no way you can shirk any of the work--this class is a full time and no holds barred beast. The paper is a massive time commitment on top of extensive and sometimes excessive reading. Find a topic you genuinely love, and then be prepared to spend your free time researching it.
Even if you are not familiar with British History, you should take this course. Professor Elkins and Joshua Walker are two of the best instructors I've had at this school and I feel like a better student having worked with them.
This is absolutely one of most difficult classes I have ever taken, and I would certainly take it again. Professor Elkins and Joshua both cared greatly about our personal development through both the paper presentation and final research paper. Check-points during the semester for the final paper were hugely helpful so that come Thanksgiving, we were in relatively good shape. Getting a hold of Prof. Elkins outside of class is difficult, but she is nonetheless available. Prof. Elkins talks a lot during class, which can stifle others' contribution, but she is incredibly smart, so it is fascinating and fun to listen.
Get ready to read, man.
