This course is an enjoyable and interesting research seminar.  While there is some repetition in the course material, I feel that the freedom of the final paper and the presence of Professor May make up for this.  While the final assignment is a big one, there is a great deal of guidance and suggestion given throughout the course from both the teaching staff and the other students in the seminar.
You can't really go wrong with this class: the professor is excellent, the subject matter is captivating, and the work you will do every week is fascinating.
Wonderful instructor, engaging material, and ample time to develop, research, and write a seminar-length essay.
While this class seems interesting, it was a disappointment. Sometimes it was interesting, but the terrible section really hurt the class enjoyment.
I'd be surprised if you're reading this. Professor Tai has retired since teaching this course, and I don't imagine it will be offered in a similar form in the years to come. That's ok--the course was showing its age. The isites were wrong, the lecture slides were typo-ridden and poorly formatted, and the readings for the course felt more like a "greatest hits" album than a well-connected group of readings. I certainly gained a new understanding of Vietnam, but I don't really think this course taught me how to think.
It is interesting, and taking it can tell you a lot about the way we perceive war-making, armed conflict, and international relations today.
Class is great, but section was a bit of a let down.
The course does a good job in touching upon multiple aspects of Vietnam.  It's a very difficult subject to teach, and the professors did a great job.  Wasn't the best history class I took, but it was definitely a solid one.
The subject material in this course was, as expected, fascinating. The dual-professor system made the course more dynamic, and the focus on Vietnamese history definitely made the course more interesting. The work load is very manageable.
Prof. Flehinger and Prof. Tai are really talented lectures and combined to give a very interesting presentation of one of the most important periods of 20th century American and Vietnamese history. If the class is ever offered again, I highly recommend taking it.
This course takes a great approach to the subjectit's really interesting to see both sides of the history of the war. Flehinger's lectures were amazing, Tai's were pretty basic but sometimes still interesting. The workload was fair.
This course is a great way to better understand a complicated and often ignored part of American history. It was fascinating to learn about the war from the Vietnamese perspective. However, organization is not the course's strong suit, nor is section particularly gripping.
Interesting subject with decent lectures. I think the section component of the class could have been handled better, but overall I enjoyed the course.
I would not suggest taking this class. The lectures are not synced up, so the added advantage of having two professors from the Vietnamese and American perspective is lost. The sections are not really discussions, but rather questions and answer style with the TF asking questions. Limited engagement in readings. Lectures can be interesting and engaging, got a background in the history, but would not recommend taking this class.
If you are Vietnamese or Vietnamese-American, despite the presence of Professor Tai, I don't recommend this course. It remains overly preoccupied with America.I also don't recommend this course if your interest in the Vietnam War si not geared towards the war as such - the battles, the warfare, the policies, the people involved, and more about its significance as an event and concept before, after, and during. Essentially, as someone interested in the war as a social and cultural phenomen, I felt very unsatisfied.
This class is great, for the most part. Brett and Prof. Tai had a great dynamic, and it's so rare to be able to get the opportunity to learn about a two-sided conflict like this one from both the Vietnamese and American perspective. Prof. Tai's lectures were occasionally poorly organized, but for the most part, she was so knowledgable that it made up for that. Brett's lectures were great as always. Students are always engaged in a Brett Flehinger lecture. Section, however, was not great. It felt like we struggled to get through an hour of discussion each week, because the questions asked were almost too informational. We didn't really get into the meat of contention about the key questions of the course. I really would have felt better about the course had there been a spot-on section guiding us through it. Definitely recommend it, but just hope for a better section experience.
I do not think this class is a good history elective to take. While I learned about the Vietnam War, with both a U.S. and American angle, it was poorly run. The lectures did not integrate well, and the section component was not good (though this might change with a different section leader). In addition, while Professor Flehinger seemed to be invested in the class and in his students, it was very difficult to get ahold of him outside of class.
This course examined the Vietnam War in a way that's unique for most history courses, especially ones dealing with American history. So often American history courses focus only on the American side of events, especially with the Vietnam War. Having classes that focused on Vietnamese history during the First and Second Indochina Wars, taught by a Vietnamese historian, was really valuable and thought-provoking. It is a course worth taking for the perspective it gives you and the deeper understanding of both the United States and Vietnam; you'll learn something valuable about both places, regardless of your background. There aren't too many assignments throughout the semester, either, which allows you to focus on the readings (although if you do poorly on the assignments, there's not much to bring up your grade). Section was ok. It would be better if it provided more room for debating the themes of the readings and discussing as a class; as it stands now, it's more of a question and answer format.
This course is a fantastic in-depth look at the history of the United States and Vietnam before, during, and after the Vietnam War. Professor Flehinger is an amazing lecturer and pushes students to think critically about the conclusions and lessons we can take from the conflict. Professor Tai's personal knowledge of Vietnamese history and culture provide a unique element to the course that is fascinating. Overall, the teaching staff is very supportive and helps guide students in analyzing historical information. I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in history.
Great class on the Vietnam War. This class is just as much on the Vietnamese experience as it is the American experience of the War. Understanding both helps you understand each individually on a deeper level.
Truly fantastic class taught by two amazing professors.  If you've ever been curious about the Vietnam War, take it.
This class provides a good background on the Vietnam War from both the American and Vietnamese perspectives, as well as the war's legacies and contemporary relevance.  I think the team-teaching approach is good, in principle, for a course like this.  However, Professor Tai's lectures, while very informative, were a bit dry at times.  Professor Flehinger's lectures were highly engaging but tended to be a little bit all-over-the-map.  Overall, the course could have been better in terms of organization and communication regarding assignments (the syllabus and website were not always up to date).
This class is absolutely awesome. Both professors are very knowledgeable and engaging, and the reading is very interesting. The TF was only okay - sections were a little awkward at times and her comments on my work weren't always that helpful, but overall you should DEFINITELY take the class.
This course has a lot of reading and may be difficult for someone who is not used to history courses at Harvard, but is well worth it in the end. Brett Flehinger is one of my favorite course instructors!
If you want to have an introduction to the Vietnam War, this is the class for you. If you already know a lot about the Vietnam War, this is not the class for you.
Here in the US, we typically learn about the Vietnam War from a strictly American perspective. This was a great opportunity to broaden my horizons. Lectures were good, not always great, but overall, I would recommend this class.
If you like the subject matter, this is an awesome course. The teaching team was great and we covered so many factors of the war that wouldn't have been possible to cover in a different course.
If you need this for a history nonwestern requirement and are interested in America, this course focuses on both America and Vietnam, which is nice.
This class is fantastic. It gives a fantastic background of the events that led to American involvement in Vietnam from both Vietnamese and American perspectives, and covers cultural, political, and military elements of the American war in Vietnam. It was a great class overall.
The class was amazing, as were the professors. This is a great example of a well-taught small sized class. I loved that every lecture was a discussion, and that the professors were super engaging. It was a challenging class that I found very much worth it. The professors are also very willing to meet outside of class, and besides learning the material, I thought that my over writing skills improved as well.
This class is a highly rewarding history class that leaves you feeling well informed about an incredibly complex era of US and Vietnamese History. The class has a high workload, but it is worth it in the end if you have an interest in this topic.
This is a really interesting and well-taught course! The workload was fairly hefty, but if you're interested in the subject matter it's definitely worth it.
If you want to learn historiography, take the class. If you want to learn about Vietnam and why the Vietnam War continues to be an open wound in American society, look elsewhere. This class does a disservice to the war and the cultural trauma it caused.
