This is a challenging course for people who are serious about studying history -- but it is also the best course I have taken at Harvard. Professor Kloppenberg is that rare breed of professor who is at once an all-star in the academic world and a truly caring and inspiring teacher. He is an excellent discussion leader, and a difficult (but fair) grader. Highly recommended.
This class is a great opportunity to learn about how intellectual history is done.  Prof. Kloppenberg is a great discussion leader and teacher.  The paper assignments teach you a lot and are relatively painless.
A must-take for any student interested in learning the methodology of intellectual history.  Very interesting and manageable reading, a chance to collaborate with a wonderful professor, and a great guide to future work in the department.
This is a fantastic seminar with amazing readings that will really make you think in a new way. Yes, this is very much the history of intellectual history, and is "meta-history" in the sense that it is a class analysing and studying the process of writing history itself. Anyone interested in getting to know critical historical methods and in thinking in an abstract way will love the course. The work is challenging but incredibly rewarding. As this is a reading seminar - do your readings! The stimulating class discussion is a big part of the joy of this class!
This course represents a great opportunity to discuss complex subject matter with your highly intelligent fellow students!  Professor Kloppenberg makes clear from the outset the high expectations he has for the members of this class.  Some interest, of course, in intellectual history would help one succeed in the course, but for the most part, just a willingness to read/write closely is necessary.  As with all great classes, the professor provides much of the inspiration and this class is no different.  This class will make one a better reader and thinker and should be made mandatory for all History concentrators!
This course is really difficult. The readings and ideas are abstract and require a lot of intensive thought. In the end, though, it's worth it. You will start to think about history in completely new ways and Professor Kloppenberg is awesome. If he offers a course, take it.
This course is not easy. Even for students who have taken Social Studies 10 or philosophy courses, it will be challenging. Professor Kloppenberg has high expectations of his students and his grading reflects these standards. With that said, there is perhaps no better introduction to the methodologies of history. It will be useful for any student in the humanities, and is better practice in analytic writing than perhaps any other course at Harvard. Any student concentrating in history or Social Studies who does not take this course is missing out.
Please take history classes in the reading seminar format. This one features some of Harvard's best faculty. Will influence all work that I do in the humanities from now on, changed the way I read texts.
Take this class if you are serious about understanding what intellectual history is and how it has been approached. Kloppenberg is wonderful, but very stern and will let you know (personally or as a class) when you are disappointing him, so don't slack! However, if you work hard you will get a lot out of it.
If interested in intellectual history, a great introduction survey of what has been done/is currently being done in the field.
An excellent introduction to intellectual history. A useful course to take no matter how experienced one feels in the field.
Begin planning and working on the final bibliographic paper early in the semester. The week prior to the due date will sneak up on you.
Make sure you know what intellectual history is before you take this class. It is taught as a method for studying ideas and contexts and discontinuities, not ideas, intellectuals, or ideologies. Consider also the type of historian you are.This class was helpful because I discovered I am not an intellectual historian.The class is long with long readings, but the professor made it enjoyable.
If you're interested in intellectual history, this is a great grounding in a discipline and a wonderful way of thinking about what kinds of questions you like to ask and what sorts of disciplinary commitments you have yourself.  But I do think the course is enriched by a prior interest in intellectual history, so I wouldn't take it just for fun if you don't have that interest.
Make sure the professor is worth it because the quality of the professor will make or break the class.
This course is wonderful and exciting, but you're most likely to feel that way if you want to pursue intellectual history seriously at the College and beyond, as the course is highly academic and focused on questions of historiography, disciplinarity, and the evolving identity of the historian.
The seminar is a great way to examine the theoretical debates surrounding intellectual history while learning about topics from history of science to liberalism.  As Professor Armitage warned us, the seminar will try to turn you into an intellectual historian and may well succeed.
The material is great and the discussion can be wonderful if you have good classmates. I wish Prof. Jewett had structured discussion a bit more (sometimes it was too open-ended and too much silence). I also wish we had had an overview of all the units/weeks ahead of time to understand how it all fit together.
This class was a lot of fun. Professor Jewett was really kind, engaging, and he read our papers before they were due. Classroom discussions were great. However, BEWARE!: this is more of a historiographical class than an intellectual history class, and the final paper is a historiographical paper.
Intellectual history is a very interesting field or method of approaching history, and this class is designed to create critical, abstract discussions. I really recommend this course for students who are willing and able to do the really terrific readings and engage in difficult and more philosophically-tinged conversations.
Professor Jewett is brilliant - very approachable and thought provoking. He has put together a very interesting syllabus that will augment your ideas of how and why we study history, and with what consequences. I would particularly recommend this class for students who are planning on integrating an historical component into their social science/social studies thesis. And, while shopping the class, I would also recommend auditioning  the material, the professor (who is excellent) AND your fellow classmates - how the class meshes together makes a huge difference for the quality of discussion and your enjoyment of the course, so you should also keep that in mind while considering this class. Jewett is very good at facilitating conversation though.
This class is the perfect challenging reading seminar.  However, intellectual history is not for everyone; the reading can be dense and difficult to process.  Also, it's very textual history, and it can become more abstract than other kinds of history.
Professor Blair is full of interesting knowledge, and this class is a wonderful chance to get to know her in an intimate setting.  History 73b is the ideal introduction to intellectual history -- in particular, for those looking for a broad, varied first taste of the discipline.  The final research paper can also be made into a terrifically rewarding academic experience.
Why I will concentrate in History.
A thrilling intellectual journey on many levels, on the level of historical theory from Kuhn's scientific revolutions to Foucault's power relations to great debates in ideas from Machiavelli and Galileo to the American Revolution and modern prisons. The course will stretch your analytical abilities and open alien worlds of thought.
If you are interested in intellectual history, this is a great course for you.  If you are not interested in intellectual history... you will find it uninteresting.
It's a great class, and I wholeheartedly recommend it.
Not as much about intellectual history as it is the history of intellectual history, but good nonetheless.
