It is worth bearing in mind that this class is fairly historiographical but this is a very good thing.
Difficult readings and challenging in-class discussions are worth getting this great introduction to the field of South Asian historiography. Though it might be more difficult for someone without a background in South Asia, the material covered is interesting and applicable to many fields.
This class is very good for upper level undergrads and beginning graduate students, because it provides a useful introduction to (and core of readings for) South Asian historiography. Professor Bose is very knowledgeable and cares about his students. A basic/intermediate background in SA history is helpful.
This was one of the best courses I have taken - it has introduced me to a range of scholarship and methods of engaging with this scholarship. It was tremendously exciting.
An informative introduction to the secondary source material on Indian historiography.
This should be taken by anyone with an interest in South Asian history, historiography, or the history of historiography.
This class is absolutely essential to a good understanding of the field.
If anyone is interested in South Asian history and historiographical methodology, you must take this course.
Prof. Bose is a great guide to different ways of thinking about and writing South Asian history. There is an emphasis on what is new and exciting in the field, and if you have an interest in this area you should definitely enrol.
A very challenging, but rewarding course. From a content level, South Asian historiography is not only of interest to specialists in that region; it is very important to the whole post-Colonial direction that historiography has taken. It also requires one to develop very close reading and critical thinking abilities. I recommend this course to anyone with an interest in South Asia.
This class can be a great advanced introduction, and simultaneously, a chance to explore one's specific interests in depth.
