This class is great because there isn't a ton of reading, and you really don't have to do the reading to come out with an okay grade. But that being said, the class is not very well organized, you are never clear what your grade is, and Professor Barak is almost impossible to reach.
I loved everything about this course! The lectures, the sections, the readings, everything was interesting and exciting. I strongly recommend this course to everyone!
This is a good class, it can be a bit disorganized but the Prof is cool and the topic is pretty broad.  It is a good intro to this period in history.
Great professor, interesting readings/material, and fun overall.
This is a fabulous class. Professor Barak loves the subject matter and generates enthusiasm for it. She is also just a cool professor. Its an insight into the medieval world, and into many different elements, food, court culture, the move from feudal world to towns, the growth of universities. If you want to understand the early modern or modern world, this class is a must. you will see connections you never knew of before and get a much better understanding of how our world evolved to be.
Great class! Interesting readings, very well taught. Highly recommend not only to History students but to others as well!
Great class, great teacher
The Middle Ages are great, and everyone should learn about them!  This course has its flaws, specifically in being a tad disorganized and uneven from week to week, but it's such a wonderful subject that this matters little.
This class is a great survey of the high middle ages. It covers a broad variety of themes and movements of the period.
Professor Barak is really nice, and easy to approach. She is going to be a very good teacher when she hones her lecture style. You should not take this class unless you REALLY are interested in the catholic church, which I am not. I was more interested in the courtly love/knights, universities and other less religious aspects of the syllabus. Overall a nice course, not hard, but gets tough to follow/listen to when it's just a lot of talk about catholicism.
