Being in the classroom with Professor Gordon-Reed is a privilege. If you have the opportunity to do so, you should take advantage of it. The readings are also great.
If you want to learn about an interesting time period from a very smart professor definitely take it! You definitely won't get a lot of individual attention, but the atmosphere is very laid back.
Take it. I would have been perfectly happy to sit and listen to Annette Gordon-Reed speak for two hours. Instead, this is a discussion-based class, so 15 or so of your peers will be doing most of the talking, with AGR's guidance. Interesting topic, brilliant professor, never dull.
The course is decent and Professor Gordon-Reed has so much information!!! The assignments are incredibly vague which makes a less than desired grade really frustrating-especially when the first two assignments are marketed as "response papers"...they count for 15 percent of your grade...each. Otherwise...this course is a great opportunity to learn about the early american republic in a way that you surely have not and to read authors that are 1. your professors peers (and potentially friends...?) and 2. provide a look into history many will never see.
There was a lot of reading but discussion often strayed far from the material. The conversations were interesting but it often felt like reading/preparing for class was a waste of time. Would have appreciated more feedback and direction on the assignments, which were frustratingly free-form.
The material in this course was very interesting, and Professor Gordon-Reed is a great lecturer and seems very approachable, but I did not think the class was structured well at all. In preparing for the final exam, I felt as if there was quite a bit of potential in the syllabus for an excellent class, but the class's style (not least importantly, its emphasis on unstructured discussion) really kept that potential from being realized.
I think that this course would be amazing if the assignment structure was changedjust so that you have knowledge checks throughout the semester.
This class was nice and the structure made it easy, but sometimes lectures could get a little off-topic. Still, if you think you might be interested in the material you should definitely take it.
A fascinating and accessible foray into law and American history. The stress of the final exam counting for the entire grade is worth learning from Professor Gordon-Reed and taking a Harvard Law course. Highly recommend.
I really liked this class as I'm interested in the subject.  If legal history or revolutionary and post-revolutionary America interests you, this is a great class.  I would stay away from the course if you're not all that interested in the subject or if you detest readings.  This course is heavily dependent on readings and you'll struggle to gain a full grasp of the content if you don't do them.
The final exam is daunting, but the class itself is not. The readings are fantastic, as is Professor Gordon-Reed. However, often times because of the way Professor Gordon-Reed structures questions, you will have to listen patiently to long winded student answers to widely open-ended questions.
I recommend this course to anyone looking to learn more about the development of the law from the colonial period through the Civil War. The class covers a very broad array of topics within that scope -- private law, constitutional law, slavery, Indian removal, women and the law, lawyering, judicial review, etc.  (Slavery received the most attention.) At times the order of the topics seemed a bit disorganized, and the readings were not always the best fit for the class discussion.  However, this is the first time Prof. Gordon-Reed taught this course without a textbook, so I suspect it will be improved the next time it is offered.
This year, the course was taught jointly at the law school, which meant that undergrads, graduate students, and law students all participated. Basically our entire grade was determined by one eight-hour take home final exam, which was taken anonymously. That part was scary, but if you think about it, I mean, in any class, if you want to do well, you need to do well on the final. So this really just takes some of the stress out from the semester (small papers, etc.). Regarding the class itself, it's a huge privilege to be able to learn from AGR. She's so smart, but one of the most humble and approachable professors I've had, and she teaches a really interesting course with interesting material. There's a huge amount of reading at points, but class discussions often focus on contemporary America (ie you don't have to do all the reading). Just be familiar with a good amount of it by the time of the final.
Don't let the final exam sneak up on you.
I would highly recommend any course with Professor Gordon-Reed. She is extremely friendly and it is an opportunity to take a course with an expert in the field. Further, this material is extremely important and the way she connects it to the present day keeps the historical analysis extremely relevant. This class was particularly interesting because of the range of students in the class.
You should be prepared to do a lot of independent work for this class to keep up with readings and prepare for the one take-home final.
This is a great class if you want to learn about the foundation of the legal system in the U.S. Just be ready to read a lot.
It is interesting and chill throughout the semester, but the final is nerve-racking. The class discussions have little relevance to the final, which strongly emphasizes citing readings instead of broad questions talked about in class. It was fun to take a class at the law school, however as many law school students told the undergrads, this course isn't a useful barometer for one's decision to go to law school. It isn't structured like a standard law school class, and there was no cold-calling. Take it as a pass/fail for the learning if you can.
Good course.  The fact that the whole grade is based on a final though is rather intimidating.
If you're looking to take a class that will show you a glimpse of what law school is actually like, this is not the class to take. But it's a very interesting look at history through a legal perspective.
This class is very interesting, but it's important to stay on top of the readings because discussions can go astray and the exam is just a take-home final. Professor Gordon-Reed is a super impressive scholar and does a good job of teaching big ideas of legal history at the time.
Professor Gordon-Reed's lecture are very engaging, and she provides a lot of opportunity for students to participate -- take advantage of this, the discussions are interesting and often relevant to current day.
Taking a class with Annette Gordon-Reed may be enough incentive for some, but be warned that a large fraction of this class involves listening to very confident law students share their opinions in meandering discussions. If this class structured its discussion component around its very interesting readings (and put some sort of weekly check in place to keep up to date on said readings) it would be a massive improvement. Be advised that the final will be VERY hard (esp given that it's 100% of your grade) if you fall behind on readings.
Make sure you take good notes and write some kind of template for the takehome. You will not be able to compete by just winging it.
