You will have to read everything.
Good course if you're into American history
If you are looking for a difficult but engaging seminar on American History from the 1890s to the 1960s, this is your course. Professor McGirr is an excellent seminar discussion leader, and the class sessions are highly informative. Be prepared however, the reading load is intense, and the quality of the seminar means preparation is crucial.
Take this class if you plan on studying American history later.  It's essential!
This was a good class but it didn't turn out to be as amazing as I had thought it might be, and the organization was sometimes lacking.  Readings were not always posted or sent out promptly, and I don't think that as much guidance was provided on some assignments as could have been.  The reading load for some weeks was also quite heavy.
This is a terrific course if you are self-motivated in the study of history. The reading list is full of prize-winning, field defining works and the research paper is a chance to do meaningful research. That being said, there is not a lot of structure to the course week-to-week, so you may easily disengage.
Great class. Definitely do the reading and come to class prepared for discussion, otherwise you won't get much out of it. Prof. McGirr is great at facilitating discussion. If you're interested in 20th century U.S. history or want to learn more, definitely go for it.
This is a very demanding history seminar.  Make sure you are really interested in the subject material.  Check the syllabus before it and google some of the books.  Be ready to read 300-400 pages a week, and be held accountable for them.
Professor McGirr was not successful in promoting a comfortable discussion atmosphere. Discussion felt more like a hidden testing of the reading assignments rather than an interesting conversation with the aim of learning. Readings are very long but do not add much; would have been structured in a much more effective way.
Be prepared to spend time reading, but the discussions are rewarding.
I recommend this course for everyone who is thinking about thesis ideas and who wants practice writing a decent sized research paper that is longer than ten pages. Professor McGirr is really amazing and a wealth of knowledge about anything in Twentieth Century U.S history and makes lecture very engaging. Be prepared for a lean towards social history material, but overall enjoyable and you will become a better researcher.
This is a fantastic course, especially for those interested in American history! Professor McGirr is a wonderful historian. She facilitates outstanding discussions and helps all of her students to become more critical readers and better historians themselves.
This was the most intellectually challenging course I have taken at Harvard. I walked out of each seminar with a real grasp of what historians have said about a given topic in U.S. history. Professor McGirr is brilliant and really engaging in seminar. Do not turn down the opportunity to take this class.
Professor McGirr is really great and will push you and challenge you throughout the semester in a way that will make you a better student and historian. A lot of the readings in this course gave me a much better understanding of historiography and the different ways you can interpret particular periods of American history. The topic of the final research paper is entirely up to you as long as it falls within the very broad category of 20th century American history, which is really wonderful and a great opportunity for juniors to explore potential thesis topics.
