The class is excellent, and the professor is amazing - if you don't take this class, take another one taught by Professor Blair. I learnt a lot about the period and I feel my knowledge of European history in general has improved also.
Prof. Blair is great! She cares a lot about everyone in the class and is always extremely willing to help with anything.
If you're interested in France and the time period, this is the class to take. Ann Blair is great.
It's a very good survey course of early modern French history. Professor Blair is an enthusiastic lecturer, who gets to know her students and wants them to thrive.
Great class, great professor, but look at the syllabus and only take the class if you can commit yourself to doing all the readings week in and week out.
This is a very comprehensive survey of early modern French culture, history, and art.  Professor Blair is a fantastic, enthusiastic professor, and the course is manageable yet very educational.  It is, however, a broad swathe of the period, so don't take the course if you're looking for particulars and deeply focused history.
The course is really fun.  The material is really interesting and the professor's lectures are great.  She is very enthusiastic and the readings are interesting. The class in Houghton was really special.
If you have any interest in the material, take this course!  Professor Blair is an amazing lecturer and is very approachable.  She really cares how you do in the course.  It's not too difficult, and you'll learn a ton/do some amazing readings.
If you're interested in early modern French history, this class is wonderful. Ann Blair is an incredibly enthusiastic and dedicated professor, and the class covers a lot of ground, political and cultural, that leaves you with an excellent overview of the early modern period. If you're not interested in early modern French history, however, I can't imagine you enjoying this course very much.
greatest history class ever
This class has some good material, though because it lacks a central thesis and covers a general time period, sometimes felt unfocused.
