This is the best seminar I've taken at Harvard, as Professor Ferguson is a tremendous lecturer and the content of the course is fascinating. You will find that history is a much better guide to foreign policy decision-making than any other discipline such as political science.
Incredible and very challenging class.
What you learn in this class is unbelievable and worthwhile, but there is a heavy time cost.  Recalling history is easy for one of the greatest historians of our time, it is not so for the rest of us.  Reading and analyzing is far more time consuming than is recognized by the teaching staff.
Great seminar. Lots of reading, but worth it. The written assignments are not too difficult though.
A tour d'horizon of strategy in military crises, from Clausewitz and the Battle of Jena to Petraeus and counterinsurgencies in Iraq and Afghanistan.
You're going to learn more form this class than most you have taken at Harvard, but be prepared to work for it!  It's worth it.
This is hands down, by far the best course I've taken at Harvard. Professor Ferguson is a living legend, and you will benefit greatly by taking his courses. Lastly, never decide against lotterying for his courses as an underclassmen. Always give it a shot.
Not to be taken lightly, but you have two hours a week to discuss a pivotal event in modern history with Professor Ferguson and lots of very smart and motivated people. This is very much the kind of class for which you attend Harvard.
This particular course is a great way of learning periods of history and the decision making process for some of the major crises of the 19th, 20th, and 21st centuries. There is a large reading component to this class and students are expected to have analyzed the material through many different lenses before coming to class. This is not a class for people who don't want to participate in discussions. You will be expected to participate almost weekly and to provide detailed answers based on the readings.
This will be one of the hardest classes you take at Harvard. It will also be the best.
This class is quite a bit of work in terms of reading, but it is worth it to learn about many of the events that shaped the modern world. Do the readings, participate in class, and get to know your classmates. You will quickly realize how little you know, but if you go into the class wanting to learn and you are willing to challenge your preconceptions of certain ideas and events, you will find this class rewarding.
BEST CLASS AT HARVARD
Professor Ferguson has said that this class is going to be made into a lecture class but I hope it retains the special quality that it has as a discussion seminar. This was a really great case of a professor pushing his students to get better and people really engaging in analytic discussion about strategy.
If you want a fascinating and demanding class which will make you understand military history, foreign policy of strategy - that's the place for you. I would recommend this class enthusiastically and without any reservations.
This course is not for the faint of heart (cold calling is not uncommon) but it is incredibly stimulating and informative. It is challenging, but very rewarding. For those who are not afraid of a challenge and interested in history and foreign policy, I would highly recommend it!
This class is excellent. It equips you with the tools to think historically about contemporary crises, and how we can use history to teach us the important answers about international relations. I could not recommend it more highly.
