That they have to take it
History 97 is the best course that I've taken at Harvard yet.  Its diversity in books and source packs provide a great sampler on different time periods and cultures.  The analytical skills that I gained from examining sources and constructing arguments were invaluable and persuaded me to switch to the History concentration rather than getting a secondary.  Many of my friends who took this course as a secondary requirement have decided to switch to history as well.
Be prepared to work hard.  It is a worthwhile course, but you need to be ready to put in the time, or you will crash and burn.
think about the sources instead of just reading them
This course is difficult, but you will learn a lot from it. Work hard and make every paper your best work.
This is challenging but very rewarding. You MUST expect to do all the reading.
This course, while necessary for all history concentrators and should not discourage students from choosing history as a concentration is a ton of work. I would suggest a lighter workload in choosing other classes because this class demands time and dedication in order to be useful to you and to your peers in the class.
If you concentrate in history, you have to take it, so there's really no reason to be asking my opinion of it but to gauge what you'll be getting yourself into. This class has probably been the most work intensive that I've ever had, but, as much as it can be annoying sometimes, a certain satisfaction comes from it.
It's not as bad as people say.
Although an interesting critical thinking exercise, this course was not particularly helpful with regard to producing robust academic historical writing and argumentation.
You've probably heard a lot about it, they never change the structure, it's all about the professor and section leader you get. If you don't like either on the first day, change immediately.
It is extremely challenging but WORTH THE STRUGGLE! You will learn a lot, and become a much better historian.
I would tell them that this class is so helpful in teaching you how to construct a history paper. It might be one of the few chances where someone could experiment with different modes of writing.
although this class may seem like a lot of work, it was the best history class i have ever taken. don't fall for all the intimidation of the course, have confidence and know that this class will help you and your paper writing skills immensely.
I switched my concentration from Government to History because of this class.  You will improve as a writer and will love this class.
If you commit to the course wholeheartedly as an exercise in improving your writing and argumentative style, then you can learn to enjoy it. Otherwise, it will seem a little pedantic and a bit miserable.
It's great, but involves a ton of work. It can also be frustrating because it jumps around so much topic-wise, but I think that's sort of the point.
This is a boot camp for historians!
This class is difficult but worth it.
Given that this is a required course -- make the best of it!  Do the readings, and be thorough with the peer reviews -- a lot can be learned from reading others' papers.
Very difficult but will show you how historians make decisions and how you can make them well or poorly, with dramatically varying results that will be somewhat uncomfortably made clear to you. Getting to know four other students in a small section experience is an unusual experience that can encourage growth in giving and taking criticism and carefully considering approaches very different from your own.
Hand in the papers on time.
A lot of work, but worth it.
The history writing tutor is an invaluable resource when it comes to writing effective history papers. Sophomore tutorial assigns 5 papers in one semester.  Be prepared to work hard, but the load is actually very manageable.
There is no better way to learn to write for the history-related concentrations than to take this course--just don't expect anything less than trench warfare for a semester.
I would recommend this class only to someone potentially interested in concentrating in history.
Be ready to work. Luckily, you don't have a choice.
The workload is high but the material isn't difficult to understand
The papers are a lot of work when you get to them...better not to leave those for an all-nighter.  It's a really good workshop for your writing, and quite useful to a history concentrator.
Since this course is required of history concentrators, my recommendation is irrelevant.  It is a difficult and time-intensive, though ultimately rewarding course, but it should only be taken if one is committed to concentrating in history.
This class is a lot of work and not very fun at all.
Always go to pre-paper tutor meetings prepared
If a student chooses to take this course seriously, it will drastically improve their essay-writing ability and they will get a lot out of it.
Requires a lot of time and thought IN ADVANCE. meeting with tutorsafter you have a draft or outline is so crucial to writing a good paper.
This course is truly an indicator of whether or not you should be a history concentrator. Because it is extremely difficult, but if you are still enjoying it than you know you have made the right decision.
This class requires a lot of work.  Let me reemphasize: a lot of work.  I have never done so much in a class.  But at the same time, this is the best class I have ever taken.
This class will teach you how to write a 12 page paper in 6 hours.
Very hard, but useful
It teaches you how to write a solid history paper and to analyze sources, looking for elements that you can use in a paper, and the quick pace of the course and many assignments means that you get a good feel for the process of writing by the end of the course.
You have to take it whether you like it or not.  It's called a concentration requirement.  Ha ha!  No just kidding... this is history boot camp, but really throw yourself into it and get the most out of it.  I started this semester dreading history 97 and wishing I didn't have to take it, but it ended up being one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
You'll learn how to bang out ten page papers, and fast.
The work is worth it! This was my favorite class by far this spring (and possibly of my first two years at Harvard).
Work hard.  You need to to get a lot out of the class.
The course is a lot easier than it looks; you have to do work for it basically once every three weeks, when you're writing your paper. In the book units, you only have to read as much of the book as it takes to see the structure and the writing style, and for the packets only enough to see what the trends are and where your argument should be. Most of the sources get explicated in tutorial anyways.
Get ready.
Get ready for a hard, rewarding course. Take it seriously and you'll learn a lot.
This class is difficult, but well worth the effort.  Be prepared for lots of paper-writing and lots of caffeine.
Only take it if you have to, not as an elective obviously.  But it wasn't as bad as I heard it would be, though I also heard that workload really depends on your TF.  Also, it is the workload that people complain about, and the content of the course can really be quite interesting.
It is a lot of writing, but by the end of it, you feel accomplished. Having written 4 difficult essays in one semester, all other essays now seem so much easier to write.
Get ready! It's a great class if you put in the effort, but it is terrible if you don't. Therefore, you should put in the effort.
This is very good preparation for the History concentration and difficult social science classes at Harvard in general. The course could be better packaged, and the papers' deadlines are perhaps the most difficult part of the class. But overall it is a great learning experience.
This class is one of the harder things you will do, but it is very rewarding.
Lots of work. But very well taught with excellent feedback.
If expos is a friendly little puppy, 97 is a grizzly bear that devours you.  You will emerge a better writer, and it's one of those classes that will garner sympathy for years to come.  But for goodness sakes, don't take it unless you absolutely have to.
It was brutal. This class, while very well taught and helpful for your writing, will consume a sizable portion of your life. Unfortunately, because of this class, you won't be able to spend as much time as you would like on your other classes, so choose classes accordingly. Overall, it is not too hard, and if you put in the time, you will do well and learn a lot.
It hurts, but it is definitely worth it in the end. Your writing skills will improve tremendously.
You will work harder than you ever have before in your life, then be told that it isn't good enough, and forced to work even harder than that. History 97 is your life when you are in it. If you survive, you'll be a much better student and historian as a result.
Take a light course load with this class.  It takes up a lot of time!
They say this is boot camp for history, but it's really expos with a history theme. The purpose is writing first and foremost, with any comprehension of history a distant second, if that. If it sounds bad, it really is.
This course will be the hardest course you will take at Harvard. Period.
Suck it up and take it if you have to. If you're considering a secondary field in history, this class is bad enough to reconsider your plans.
It's not as bad as they say it is. It may be nicknamed "History Boot Camp," but I've been through much worse. A lot depends on what tutor you have. Just...DON'T wait until the night before to read a source packet or start a paper. And you will be fine.
Be prepared for lots of writing in a 24-hour time span, between finishing your papers and writing lengthy peer reviews.
This class is a ton of work, but you get out as much as you put in.  Great class, overall, especially with a good tutor.  But take a lighter load the semester you take this, as it will consume most of your brainpower.
This class isn't necessarily difficult, but it is very work intensive.
This class will completely stress you out and make you want to change concentrations. Don't though, because after you take it, writing papers is so much easier.
This is probably one of the hardest courses you will ever take at Harvard, but you learn a lot and the material is very, very interesting. I had a love-hate relationship with History 97, but I think it actually was a very intellectually enriching experience.  Be prepared to work hard though, really hard.
I loved this course, but as a secondary concentrator, I felt it was nearly impossible to balance with my regular concentration commitments. With its extremely strict deadline policy, there was far too little room for flexibility. While the argument can plausibly be made that such leeway is entirely unnecessary for students for whom this is their primary intellectual commitment at Harvard, for those students choosing to take the difficult secondary field requirements on, there ought to be more space given for them to balance their learning and occasionally get a few more hours to finish off an assignment without penalty. Those hours would not destroy the peer review process, but they would ensure that highly committed students (as anyone who chooses to take History 97 as a secondary surely is!) do not have their GPA's destroyed by trying to integrate History with their broader coursework. The idea, as always, is for students to learn the material to its fullest, not to meet deadlines, which is but a necessary evil.
You have to take this course to be a history concentrator, but it really does help improve your writing. It's challenging but definitely worth it.
It is a lot of work, but manageable. The feedback on your writing is useful in developing writing ability.
This course is all about just doing it. Just do it! Try not to disappear out of your friends' social worlds though.
History 97 will do more for your writing than any other course at Harvard. It was fascinating and exciting to learn so many different ways to write history. You'll have to work hard, but you'll be a better student for it.
You have to take the class, so take it seriously and give yourself plenty of time to revise all five essays, not just the one you choose for the revision unit.
This is an incredibly difficult, but also rewarding course.  While you will probably lose several nights of sleep to this class (i.e. more than 10), it helps immensely with essay writing.  Looking back, it will be worth it.  But you probably won't be thinking in those terms as you take the course.  Still, it's required.  Good luck.
Take the workload seriously. Try to compartmentalize it into sections of the week rather than letting it control your life.
Do not take this class unless you absolutely have to.
if you are not a history concentrator its not worth it and you are not going to be able to do the work. Go take something easy like cs50 or something.
This class is grueling, and your experience will vary greatly depending both on your tf and your seminar professor.  Unfortunately, there's not much you can do to influence who you get on either count.
It's hard. So so hard. The turnover rate for each essay was crazy.
My recommendation is essentially meaningless, as all undergraduate history concentrators and minors must take this course. That said, however, this is the most important course for history undergraduates. It will help you to finally nail the nuances of historical argument and effective writing, even if it kills you. All you can do is try your best and hang in for the duration. All other history classes and even non-history classes will do markedly better afterward as this course drastically impacts your ability to make and defend an argument well, which is an essential skill for any field.
"Welcome to hell."
This class will make you work.
Not as hard as everyone says. You just need to learn the rules of the game.
interesting material. You learn things here you won't find anywhere.
This was an amazing class. I was pretty scared of taking it, and it is certainly as intellectually challenging and time-consuming as the course staff makes it out to be, but once you accept that it will dominate your schedule, it can actually be incredibly rewarding. Set aside some time each week that you completely devote to the class. Put a lot into the packet assignments because they are really helpful in preparing for the papers. Go to your tutor's office hours! It is really helpful to prepare some ideas for papers in advance and talk them over with the tutor before you get started on the actual writing.
The course takes a lot of work and can be aggravating at times, but you'll learn a lot about your writing. It's not as impossible as some say, but try to limit the number of papers in your other classes.
It's not as scary as some people will tell you.  The class is a lot of work, but it's also super organized which makes everything very spread out, as long as you do a little bit all the time.
Don't be dissuaded from studying history because of this course!!  It's hard, but you shouldn't be intimidated.Also if you are a junior who switched into history - this course will be incredibly useful for you even if you have taken a reading or research seminar beforehand.
Plan ahead for this class in every way possible. First, at the beginning of the semester you know His 97 will be a big time commitment, so lighten up your other courses and workload. Second, read the packet a little bit every day so you don't end up trying to finish a packet assignment in one night. Third, write your paper in steps and check in often with your tutorial leader. This will help keep you on track. Everyone says this course is difficult, but I found that if you plan ahead and work diligently in steps, it really isn't too hard.
It's a grind. It wears you down. By the end, you hate the class because it's soooo much work and there's never a break.
A required course, but a very useful one and one I'm glad that I was forced to take.
Be ready to work.
I think it is a good class for history concentrators to take.
It's intense. If you want a very thorough introduction to history, take it. If not, then don't.
Since this class is required for the concentration and secondary, I would just take an optimistic approach and take the course as it is--a course to teach you how to write history. Yes, this course is pretty rough, and the grades are probably not going to be your best. Definitely go to office hours for your tutors and talk through your plans for the papers, because I found that super helpful. Also, read the coursepacks very carefully, because you do not want to do a bad job during the week when you read the sources and then have to re-read it again before writing your paper.
Be prepared to do more work than your ready for
TAKE THE PACKET ASSIGNMENTS SERIOUSLY.If you spend good time with the packet during the second week of each unit, it will be much easier to write the paper in the third week. Save yourself a headache.This class is not difficult or impossible to get through. Stay on top of your work and you'll have little to complain about.
This is an undoubtedly tough class, and you may end up (as I did) pulling an all-nighter every third week to write the papers. But feedback and turn-around are excellent, tutorial groups are small and can become close, and I actually felt like I came out of it a better writer. I quickly learned that I would not be allowed to employ my usual lazy paper-writing tactics and still get A's. I found I did very well on papers I wrote for other classes this semester simply because I was holding myself to a History 97 grading standard. Overall, this class is a lot of work and can be painful, but it's also more effective than I expected and will teach you to stop going easy on yourself when writing papers. (Also, don't expect sympathy from non-history people! Otherwise, you may get irritated with them when they refuse to believe that a history class can actually be a lot of work!)
This class is not good/fun/easy, etc. But its literally the only bad class in the history department. On the plus side, you really learn to become a great writer
Prepare to receive some of the lowest grades you will ever get, but keep a thick skin, go for office hours and see how to improve your writing. A lot of it is adjusting to your tutor's preferences and expectations, who will be marking your paper. Also, as Professor McGirr wisely said: "Your writing must *always* be tethered to your sources." The most important part of the course is not writing the paper, but combing through the source packet very, very carefully...
Its a necessary evil to becoming a history concentrator. it will really help your writing abilities
Lots of reading and writing but definitely worth it if you are interested in history.
You should only do this class to obtain a history concentration. Do something else if you're doing it as a minor, it's too much work. That being said, you learn a large amount in a semester, and if you take it head on you will be a better writer and editor by the end. It will be the bane of your existence for the semester, the grading is unnecessarily harsh, but if you put in the effort you will be rewarded.
It is as time consuming as they say. Be prepared to work consistently.
I came into the class expecting it to be toilsome work, that would get in the way of my other classes. It did that in a horrible way but I did not expect to get as much out of it as I did. Though I had been taught how to write history to a fairly high standard before Harvard, this class shows you just how easy it is to argue something for 10+ pages and still want to write more. Though people become fairly pissed off about the idea of writing more history by the end of it, the course made me want to keep pushing myself as a writer and historian. The teachers are pretty incredible - just don't skimp on the readings (McGirr will eat you alive).
I think this was the year we got so mad they will overhaul it. If they don't, I am one of the biggest history nerds on the planet--I was looking forward to this course!--and it still made me want to flee to even the Physics department if it got me out of this mess.
Only take it if you must. It's unnecessarily difficult and at times it feels as if the course has been made difficult just for the sake of making it difficult. This is odd because my experience with the history department has been great with the exception of this class. As a side note, this in no way the fault of the tutor, but rather the fault of absurd schedule and course structure.
This course is fine, and some aspects of it are very helpful.  It is very interesting to see how different people approach the packet differently.  It helps you find your voice.  The course is not as bad as people complain.  HOWEVER the time constraints can be very difficult and I can almost guarantee you will be very frustrated with the course at least once, and it is hard to bounce back from that.  You will be writing around 45 pages in the semester.
If you embrace the improvements to your reading and research then it'll be very very informative, but it is extremely time consuming and at times seems unecessarily so
A lot of reading, heavy workload yet gives all the tools necessary for a succesful grasping of subsequent history classes
It's mandatory, but don't let this ruin the concentration for you.  I love being a history concentrator, but I hated this class.
I have not taken a more dull, painful (not in material, but in sheer workload), and UNHELPFUL class at Harvard. This class is a total embarrasment to the History department and I would really question whether the way the class is taught and structured is at ALL condusive to helping history concentrators develop historical skills - because almost NO student I talked to felt that it helped in any way, and some even said that it was detrimental to their writing skills. I'm incredibly disappointed at the unhelpful teaching staff of this course: the lack of intellectual rigour of the class, and the utter dullness, superficiality, and ultimately redundant nature of the material we had to learn. Potential history concentrators beware - this class is awful and not representative of the history concentration. It is, however, disappointing that the history department employs such disinterested, unhelpful staff to teach this class, and moreover, that the history department is ok with having a tutorial that essentially teaches students nothing at all about history, and leaves students with little to no useful skills or insights into how to write for the concentration.
If you love history--not just the subject, but the discipline--then this course will sculpt your abilities like you never imagined. If history is not your passion, stay away at all costs. It has the workload of several courses.
A lot of writing, a lot of reading, and a pretty much useless seminar component every three weeks, but if your tutorial section is good you might almost enjoy it. If you can write the way your TF likes you'll do okay. If you can't, you won't, and you probably won't learn "how to write" in the way they talk it up at the start of the semester. And if you're doing History, you have to take it. So, yeah.
This is the most demanding course I've taken at Harvard, but it's worth it.
I loved this course. It's so much work, yes, but you can get so much out of it, I swear. Some advice, though: first, you really should do work for this class every day, even if only 10 minutes one day. At the very least, do not  DO NOT  wait until the last night to do a packet assignment or a paper. You will not write a good paper if you do either of these (because doing a thorough job with the packet assignment is so connected to writing a good paper) and you will be miserable doing it. You'll get a lot out of this class, but only if you put in the effort. And you really should put in the effort, because you're going to be spending a huge amount of time on this course in any case. Second, pick your other classes wisely. You can do other classes with a lot of reading or midterms, but the key is that during each weekend before your paper is due, and possibly during packet week, you really need to be able to just put off everything (other classes, extracurriculars) and focus only on history (yes, you will need the entire weekend). If your schedule doesn't allow you to do this every three weeks (and possibly more) then you should reconsider. Third, take a break during book week, but work very hard during the other two weeks. Fourth, this class is not as scary as I'm making out to sound right now and as you will hear. If you put in the effort, you will get so much out of it -- so put in the effort! You owe it to yourself to do this.
Painful but rewarding.
Ok, this class is a grind, and its hard, but its also incredibly rewarding. Your writing will get much better, and you'll be much more confident in the writing process. Plus, you'll learn a lot about history and how it works, so overall the class is worth the time and effort you'll put in.
Difficult class in terms of the amount of "busy work" you have to do on a weekly basis. Seminars are somewhat pointless, as they have little to do with sections, the unit topics, or writing/editing. You have to suffer through it, but you will definitely be a better writer at the end of the semester.
If you have a variety of college level history courses under your belt, this class won't be too hard. If you don't, however, be prepared to absorb information and criticism quickly, as 97 requires a lot of flexibility and hard work. At the same time, as one faculty member has said, "their bark is worse than their bite." True, there is a lot of fear/intimidation surrounding this course and it hasn't had the best reputation in past years, but ultimately it will be exactly what you make of it. Don't be afraid to go in for help, befriend the people in your section, and possibly even enjoy reading the material. If you do that, you'll definitely learn something, and feel so much more confident when you tackle history courses in the future.
This is the best writing course at Harvard. It will make you utterly miserable, but you'll improve because of it.
This class is an enormous amount of work. And it is not work that you cannot do because then you would simply fail. I did learn a lot and am glad to have taken it, but be aware of what you are getting yourself into.
This class has been one of the best I have ever taken at Harvard. Time and effort are definitely required, but if you put those in you will get a lot out of the experience. The course also encourages you to think about evidence/sources and writing in different ways, and after taking it I now feel much more equipped not only to write about history but to analyze and understand any written or visual sources.
Plan accordingly when you have to take History 97. This will take over your courseload, so balance out your workload with easier classes. It is almost impossible to get a good grade in the course, even though you devote hours and hours to it. It's a frustrating experience that you should only take because it is a requirement.
This class is tough --  but you have to take it!  It will work you really hard -- but you will learn how to write quickly, efficiently, and well.  It is like boot camp -- you hate doing it, but you come out stronger.
only if your a history concentrator
It's a must for history concentrators, but you will have a rewarding experience if you go into this course with an open mind.  The writing assignments will help you grow as an academic and a critical thinker.
very difficult. make sure the rest of your courses reflect that this will be your most time consuming/difficult class
This course is required and it is more often than not it is a pain and not a pleasure. Make it your academic priority of the semester and devote your energy to it: you will need to in order to survive. Take the time you think you will need and double it: budget twice as much time as you normally would. If I could go back and do things over, I would work much longer and harder on the material in the coursepack. I think I will exit the course with a decent grade, but an A is totally within everyone's reach if you try.
History 97 is a tough course, but I loved it and got a huge amount out of it. You can't coast through, but if you give it your all you'll find it to be a very rewarding experience.
This isn't that bad - really.  Just read the packet early and think before you write.  You will thank this course later.
Terrible terrible class. You have to take it as a history concentrator. It will be the bane of your existence sophomore spring but just get it out of the way.
Yes, the rumors are true. There is a ridiculous amount of work for this class. But it is possible to do the work and actually to gain a lot from your interactions with your TF and your tutorial professor. Your writing will absolutely improve. I personally was very grateful for the opportunity to spend a semester worrying about history and about writing. Take a deep breath, don't be intimidated, and you'll be fine.
It's true: this is expos on steroids, and you will probably end up spending more time on this class than any other that you've taken. However, it's worth it. The packets are actually fascinating, and your writing will improve immensely, making this a rewarding class. You won't believe that you tried to write history papers before.
This class will seem unreasonable and overwhelming.  I was oftentimes frustrated with the sheer volume of work that sometimes seemed superfluous.  However, I think I became able to write a lot faster after this course.  Be prepared to make it your absolute priority and avoid picking heavy reading/writing courses with it.  It is a lot of reading and writing, more than any other class.
This is the hardest course (time-wise) that I have taken in three years at the College, but it is also the best-designed tutorial available to sophomores because of its emphasis on learning how to write.
you have to take it, so just get it done.
One of the main reasons I didn't concentrate in history earlier was that everyone I knew who took this course warned me off it. I'll be giving the same warnings to younger students who ask me about the history concentration.
Hard but very useful and a great learning experience. I would tell them to make sure they took a lighter load with other courses that semester, because this one takes over a lot of time.
Although the course is challenging and time-consuming, it really does improve your writing. It is like history boot camp.
History 97 is notorious for being a lot of work and not much fun. I was lucky to have a fun group of students and excellent teaching fellow, which made it slightly better. The course is foundational in the sense that it attempts to impart a methodology, but will not provide much historical content.
In a nutshell: A lot of work, but well worth it -- You gain a wealth of research and writing skills in a semester.
It's an arduous but rewarding learning experience
It's a difficult course but one of the most rewarding classes you'll take here. Be prepared to work hard.
If you do all of the work and read for the classes, discussions are interesting and engaging.Papers and packets:1-narrative-papers were by far the most fun to write and loved the idea of embedding a theme-something i had never done before.  packet was well put together and i gained a fuller picture as a read more.  also the most interesting read of all other classmate's papers.  i gained further insight into the fall of const. from their papers as well as my own.2-biography-interesting subject, someone i felt i shoudl have heard of but hadnt.  more difficult packet though, finding ways to use differentiating sources was tough3-intellectual history-packet online was awful but the subject was interesting.4-cultural history-fascinating subject and liked the class movie watching as well.  i think this topoic is great for learning how to pick important details out of an event and then spin them towards an illuminating historical piece of writing.5-revision-tough, but worthwhile.  not something i have had the chance to do much here at harvard.
You'll get to do things in this class that you won't get to do in any other history class, like write narrative histories.
That it's hard, but that it will more than prepare you for writing a thesis or doing graduate level work in history.
This class is brutal.  So much reading and writing.  You will never have so much work for one class and the grading is intentionally harsh.  If you are taking this, pick other classes that do not require much work.  Absolutely hated it.
Going into this course, you must remember that it has a lot of work. No other concentration has a seminar that is even comparable. The course is not necessarily difficult in terms of the material you deal with, but the rigor and amount of time you must devote to it makes it extremely grueling at points. That being said, it is definitely a worthwhile class to take if you want to learn how to vastly improve your writing and research abilities for any field. I would definitely recommend this course.
Only take this class unless you have to.  You will emerge a better writer, but the workload is very heavy.  If you take History 97, make it your priority, and consider taking easier classes along with it.  This is definitely one of the hardest classes I have taken (probably the toughest so far), so if you take it you know what you are getting into.  The History Department is great though, and this class is worth it (and necessary) if you want to concentrate in History.
It is a challenging course, and it does take up A LOT of time, but it is incredibly interesting.
This course is a fair amount of work, but its not terrible. Do a little bit of work each day if you can.
Learn the art of writing a paper even when you only have a vague idea of the parameters/requirements. Tutorial is much more helpful but even that might not be enough sometimes. If you're a history concentrator, taking this course is obviously mandatory... good luck.
For students seeking to pursue a history secondary, just take interesting history classes rather than sticking to the "official" history secondary track.  A history secondary really isn't worth it given the amount of work you have to complete for History 97.
This course is certainly demanding, but a useful preparation for having to write and read a lot as a history concentrator.  Make sure to stay on top of the readings, meet with your TF, and not leave the papers to the last minute.
This class makes Expos look like a walk in the park.  The amount of writing you will have to do, combined with the high quality of feedback you will receive, will make you a better writer.  But, only take this class if you have to.
Go to office hours to talk about the sources pack analysis.
It is necessary for the History dept. but get ready to get your butt kicked.
It is difficult and frustrating.  You gain only experience, not knowledge.  Think of History 97 as an unpleasantly large suppository.
If you want to concentrate in History, you have to take this course, so there's not much to say about it. That being said, be prepared to write a lot and make sure you participate as much as possible because you do get graded on that component. Not an easy A, but you should be able to get a B without too much labor.
This class is a big pain.  I still don't really understand the characteristics and techniques of the various writing styles assigned to us.  I got useless feedback and you have no way to respond to or build on feeback you get (if any) until the very end.  It is a good idea in theory, but poorly executed.  I don't think I have improved very much as a writer because I still don't know what I was doing wrong because the feedback was minimal and there was no upfront lesson on how to write a particular style.  The books you read at the beginning of each unit are useless as models.  Also, if you are in Kishlansky's class, have patience, and if you are that kid he stereotypically picks on because you are from China and the book is about Mao or you are British and you are talking about the American Revolution, I'm sorry.  It's inappropriate, but he's been doing things like that for so long he's not going to change any time soon.
You'll hear a lot of bad things about history tutorial, like it's the worst class at Harvard. It's not. Actually, it's kind of straightforward: read a book, then read a packet of sources with a small assignment to guide you as you take notes (and I'd recommend taking pretty detailed notes/write outlines for your final paper), then write essays (one 8 pg, two 10 pg, and one 12 pg) and then revise one. Every 3 weeks is another style of historical writing: narrative, biography, intellectual, and cultural. You meet with your tutor to discuss the packet and talk about how you can turn that into a paper; I'd suggest thinking about possible theses/outlines in advance, then bringing them up in class. Then you write a paper - make sure to have at least started to write it/outline before your tutor's office hours; you should definitely go every week to work out any problems you might have. The biggest problem with tutorial is that odds are, you'll be graded very difficultly, just like expos. Don't let that get you down since participation is a big part of your grade. Besides, at the end, you might just learn you like intellectual history (or at least know what it is).
It's not as bad as everyone says - just be organised, really make use of the 'book' week as a means of understanding the 'type' of history, and make use of your tutor (especially since they are the ones who mark your papers)
You have my sympathies if you take this class. The subject material is rarely interesting, and the essay grading often seems arbitrary and harsh.
If you're a history concentrator you have no choice but to take it - but it's really not bad. Its reputation is worse than the reality.  As long as you do the packet reading ahead of time and then don't wait to the last minute to write the essay you will be fine. It is however a lot of work, and if you aren't a history concentrator or secondary there is no reason to take it unless you have a pathological desire to improve your writing skills, because this course will definitely make you a better writer, even more so than Expos.
Keep up with the reading (especially the packet reading), and consult your TF before all the papers.  It's a great class and a good foundation for your studies in history.
Prepare to spend almost twice as much time on this class as you would on any other of your classes this semester. They are not kidding when they want you to center your schedule around History 97. But if you put in the work, I think you can really take a lot out of the course to apply to your future history writings.
History 97 isn't an easy class, but it isn't the nightmare death march that it's sometimes hyped up to be. Stay on top of your work, take it seriously, and you'll be fine. You will write, write, write, and then write a little more -- and guess what? You'll be a better writer as a result. And you'll be able to pump out a twelve page paper faster than you ever thought possible.
It is difficult, it is sometimes frustrating, but it is very useful
This class is not as challenging as the Q guides will play it off to be. I found it one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. Will actually make you a better writer.
This course will be the vain of your existence for your sophomore spring. However, it will be the source of your success and merit in writing for the rest of your career at Harvard. It is tough, and yes at times is absurd, but History 97 teaches you how to write and think like a historian, and the tutorial experience will be one the most constructive to your time at Harvard. In no other class will you have the opportunity to discuss your writing one on one with a tutor and 3 other classmates. Get through it, and you will realize how important it is to your academic work.
This is the toughest class you'll take in the history department (if not at Harvard), but if you want to work hard and learn something this is the perfect class. It sure isn't easy but it's a great class.
The  class work can get really frustrating and tedious at times, but it will teach you a lot about how to read and interpret historical sources as well as how to write effectively in different genres.
There's no break, and it's as much work as everyone says, but you really learn a lot about how to be a historian and write historical papers.  Though there's a ton of reading, a lot of it is pretty interesting, and you will learn a lot about certain aspects of history you likely did not know much about before.
It's a slightly work-intensive but not particularly difficult course, and a good opportunity to practice source-reading and paper-writing skills.
If you're a History Concentrator you have to take it. So get ready for some hard work. It is very rewarding and your writing WILL improve.
Unfortunately, you cannot avoid it, and the creators and organizers of this course thinks that gives them the right to never reorganize this course. It needs a completely overhaul, but they don't seem to notice or care. It's an incredible amount of work that you will not care about, so budget your time wisely (get started early, know what you're going to write about, etc.) You might find an improvement in your writing if you haven't written history papers before, but the learning curve is brutal, and if you know how to write you won't learn very much.Of course, once you get through this course history is an amazing concentration, but prepare for a hellish concentration.
If you are reading this, you know you HAVE to take the course to be a history concentrator so just remember that this course WILL take up ALL of your time.  It has to be not only the academic backbone of your semester but your extracurricular backbone as well.  Take the time to read the packets very thoroughly.
It really, really, really, really, sucks, but you have to take it as History concentrator.  I really hope that for all your sakes, serious changes are made.  As it is, this course will require 50+ pages of essay-writing from you, not counting very lengthy packet and peer review assignments, which are busy work. PLEASE DO balance your course load accordingly.
It's a challenging writing class. I've always been a slow writer, so it was even harder for me! I usually spent entire weekends on papers. (The packet assignments weren't that bad, but of course, the more time you put into a packet assignment, the quicker the paper would go.) You really do emerge as a much stronger and more thoughtful writer, though, with a much better intuition for analysis. I'd recommend early starts on papers and careful, careful packet readings.
Buck up and take it.
This course is required and infamous, so prepare to devote a lot of time to it.  Unfortunately, it expects students to make it the sole academic priority they have, when there are three other classes that must also be tended to.
This class is certainly a lot of work.  That said, most of it is engaging and some even downright fun.  It takes a lot of time but you end up with a great feeling of accomplishment.
Make sure you want to be a history concentrator before you take this course. The only reason students take History 97 is that it is a required course.
You definitely learn a ton, but be prepared for the class to take over your life.
be prepared to spend most of your time on this course.
I was hesitant to take this course because I had heard so many horror stories and people kept telling me it wasn't worth it for the secondary field. If you are in the same situation, I very much encourage you to take this course. It is time consuming but you learn a lot that will help you not only write better papers in other history courses, but also simply get more out of them. The course is very manageable and you can use the weeks with the books and discussions as a rest period.
Start packet assignments and essays (or at least outlines) early and you'll be fine.
Take this class with a grain of salt.  It is more difficult than anything you can possibly do.  Try your hardest, give 100% to this class and maybe you'll come out with a B+.  It's all a matter of doing things right.
When I think about History 97, I feel sick, angry, anxious, disgusted, and depressed.  This class just sucks.  I cried about it several times.  It takes tons of time, and you're almost guaranteed not to get a good grade.  But it's required for the concentration, so my comments are irrelevant.Ultimately, concentrating in History is the best choice you can ever make if you really love the subject, even if this class is terrible.
If you think of the work for this job as soulless 9:00 to 5:00 office work, everything will be okay.
Honestly, I don't know why this is considered such an awful, life-dominating course. (Maybe taking it the semester after organic chem made it seem less bad.)  It's a lot of work, but the work is spread out so that you have a moderate amount each week and it never builds up. Take advantage of your tutor's office hours; they make writing the papers much easier.
Yes, it's a tutorial, so it's not the most fun, but even with a packed schedule, the work is manageable.
This is not a history class. It is a course to force you to critically examine large sets of sources and create essays out of them - if you can already do this then there is little for this class to teach you. The professor and TF do not do an adequate job of thoughtfully criticizing your work to make you a better writer. Topics are often arcane and boring, which is a shame since all history concentrators find some topics definitely interesting. The seminar aspect of this course is entirely misguided, overcrowded, and unenlightening. If you think you like history, consider switching to Hist and Lit or Government if you do not want to deal with this semester-long drag.
As you've probably heard, History 97 is a lot of work (be prepared to spend many, many of your weekends this semester reading and writing papers for this course).  However, it is extremely well structured and you will definitely get a lot of useful feedback from your peers and tutors that will help to improve your history writing.  It's worth it.
It is a lot of work, but the material is engaging and interesting and that makes it totally worth it.
GREAT CLASS!!
It's sometimes awful as you go through it (i've never pulled so many all-nighters for a class before), but I do actually think I am a better writer now.
I would never take this course if I weren't a History concentrator.  But since I am, I have to.  Don't be turned off of the concentration just because of this course though--it's just a semester.
History 97 makes you think about how history is made.  It taught me to value primary sources and think critically about from where my sources were coming.
It's all about reading and writing. If you are a good writer, you will not get much out of peer review or tutorial. It's not as bad as everyone says.
Make the best of it. You'll tell yourself that you won't wait until the last minute to do the work, but that won't happen. Definitely go to office hours and talk about your ideas for essays though. That was incredibly helpful.
