Great class with a great teacher. The class is very straightforward in regard to the syllabus. With the research paper they are very supportive and you can write about almost anything
The focus of the class is very narrow but it allows you to draw things from it that will help you in other classes.
Fascinating material, fascinating readings, not too hard, and taught by an expert in the field. Great research seminar.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. A lot of reading, but if you engage you get so much back.
Professor Plokhi is really into the topic and can answer almost any question you have. If you are really interested in the topic and are excited about history, you should definitely take the course, if not, you should think twice.
Taking this class was a great experience.  Because of it, I have a much better understanding of World War II and the Cold War's origins.
Serhii Plokhii is great but know what you are getting into-- a semester long course on a week long conference.
Keep on top of the material.  Do your presentations early.
If you are interested in WW2, Cold War and the Big Three and want to get a thorough understanding of these topics - this course is the right one!
The professor and teaching fellow did an excellent job facilitating discussion.
It focuses very heavily on the conference itself, and less on the Russian side of things than I hoped.
This is one of the best classes I've taken in the History Department.  Professor Plokhii is extremely knowledgeable, and chooses readings which help you to explore the development and results of the Yalta Conference.  It will definitely challenge your preconceived notions of the Yalta Conference, and is a course you should definitely take if you want to study the origins of the Cold War or twentieth century European history.
It's a rewarding class. You learn a lot about a specific conference which is exciting. Applying the consequences of the Yalta Conference to another aspect of history is actually really exciting. You can really run with your paper topic. Prof. Plokhy is a superb resource and he's quite laid back
This course offers what it advertises. There are no surprises.
It is an interesting class and a good way to fulfill the research seminar requirement for the history concentration.
A great professor and a great research seminar!  I hadn't studied World War II or Cold War history in as much detail before, but I found the subject really fascinating.  Of course, it can be difficult to discuss an eight-day conference for entire semester, but the material is actually very rich, and you're given considerable freedom in choosing research topics that go beyond the conference itself.  The readings are often long, but the primary source accounts are very interesting.  The writing assignments and presentations are very manageable.
This is primarily a class for history concentrators preparing to write a thesis. This specific course was excellent, the content was amazing. Great professor and tutor, greatly helped my writing.
It's nice to look at the conference so closely, but it also feels a bit narrow only discussing what the Big Three thought about these complex issues.
If you're not going to take it seriously, don't bother.
I have never taken a class that so thoroughly covered a topic in history. The professor has an astounding understanding of the Yalta Conference and an incredibly in-depth knowledge base of World War II in general.
This is a great course which will give you in-depth knowledge of the negotiation process, and which will deepen your understanding of the conflicts that underlay the beginnings of the Cold War.
If you are interested in the subject matter and are willing to work harder, it was an extremely good and useful course.
Although I loved the class, it does appeal to a restricted circle of students. This is not a class that will give you an overall background on the origins of the Cold War for instance.
Great teacher, with thoughtful class structures and reasonable workload requirements. Allows you the freedom to investigate the themes which interest you most. Good discussion structure!
This course has tough reading, a long paper, but is perhaps the best course I have taken at Harvard. Very strong recommendation.
Difficult and dense, but well worth your time if you are interested enough in Yalta and US-UK-USSR post-WWII relations. Discussions are great, completing the paper is a rewarding experience, and you will leave the class an expert on the Yalta Conference.
This is an extremely informative course and Professor Plokhii is a gold mine of knowledge and wisdom on this topic. The readings are fascinating and you get to read the actual dialogue that went on in the conference! The readings are not overwhelming and Tomasz is a great course assistant who gives fantastic feedback. One thing - DO THE READING AND TALK IN CLASS. The discussions are only as good as the effort that the students put in. Also this course is very very much only about the conference and beforehand, I thought I would know exactly how the cold war started but that's not a big feature of this course: this course sets the stage for the beginning of the cold war and explains fabulously what its origins were, but does not really go over the actual beginning friction. But you could write about that in your paper! Also for a history seminar, the final paper is not big or scary at all at 15-20pages.
Take this class if you enjoy History or want to understand the origins of the Cold War better.  This class was a very comprehensive look at quite possibly the most important meeting of the 20th century.
Excellent class on a fascinating week in time. You learn more than just the "Yalta Conference." This class teaches you all about the general foreign policies of US, Great Britain, and USSR, and also about the larger-than-life characters at the conference.
Read the professor's book to give you a context for all of the reading
Start writing the paper earlier than you think you need to.  Even if you have a good outline and have planned well, the actual writing process took much longer than I had expected.  Oksana will read over a draft of your paper, but if you don't have it written until the last minute, you can't take advantage of this opportunity.
Even if you never thought you cared about the Yalta Conference, this course is a fascinating look at the personalities and issues of the Big Three leaders--you will learn a lot.
take it
As this course went on, I not only felt like I was learning a tremendous amount about Yalta, but I was progressively more interested in the topic.  Prof. Plokhii facilitated lively conversations, and the assignments were reasonable ones that also generated discussion and student interest. I would not consider myself someone particularly knowledgeable about WWII, but I found the class fascinating and would highly recommend it.
The course has a lot of reading and requires a good deal of initiative on the part of the students, but the end result is a fulfilling and informative experience. Definitely a great way to fulfill the History Research Seminar requirement.
The material is clearly very specific. It is about the Yalta Conference - a week long conference, spread into an entire semester course. You do have a ton of flexibility for your final research paper however. It is very interesting, but very challenging. Get ready to read a lot, learn a lot, and enjoy doing it.
Very good class. Very low workload for a research seminar, but it still has the benefit that you get to do really good research. Course is very narrow, which has benefits in terms of depth but means that you don't actually learn all that much
A great opportunity to learn more about Yalta, but also to see how one goes about untangling historical events through the scholarly process.
I loved this class, it was the highlight of my week.  The material is so interesting and Professor Plokhii does such a great job of providing anecdotes that were not present in the text as he is extremely knowledgeable on the subject.
