Great readings, interesting material, an engaging professor, and a great combination of students. Definitely take the class!
Brett Walker is the absolute man (that is, he's deeply knowledgable, engaging, and one of the foremost environmental historians in the world) - if you have any interest in the topic, or just questions of the environment in general, take this. (He probably won't be teaching it in future years, though, so all this is moot).
If you have Professor Walker, take this class! The discussions are super interesting, the material is fascinating if you have any interest in the scope of Environmental History. Some background in the humanities would be best as it gets to be fairly high-level which I found to be the most challenging aspect.
As an economics concentrator who spends a lot of time evaluating environmental issues through an economics lens, this class was eye-opening to other valuable interpretations on the these issues both through a diverse class and reading materials. The class covers a large range of issues regarding humans, nature, and the grey-zone in between, from a myriad of perspectives!The readings can be quite long some weeks so expect to dedicate a not insignificant chunk of time to reading them each week in order to write the response papers. But it's all worth it!
If you want to become well-versed in one of the most critical current disciplines of History, you should take this class.
As a history concentrator, this might be my favorite class ever taken at Harvard. Professor Walker is amazing. He makes discussion equally enlightening and hilarious.
This class is really great! It really forces you to engage with and think critically about what it means for the environment to have agency in the course of history, and it does so by assigning a breadth of super interesting topics to talk about. Professor Walker is great a facilitating discussion, and Erin is really nice and very accessible outside of class.
I think this is a class with a really interesting perspective from a lot of other classes here at Harvard; great for Economics concentrators or ESPP secondarys or Gov concentrators.
