This class really helps ease the thesis process.  The material is helpful, it is organized well.  However it will not save you if you're writing on something you're not excited about, so the real question is, are you planning on writing a thesis?  If the answer is yes, then you have to take this class.  If the answer is maybe, I would think a little harder before enrolling.
History 99 provides just the right amount of structure for writing a good thesis. Carla and Heidi will keep you on track and provide lots of ideas for every aspect of the project.
The History Department has step up a course that keeps its concentrators on top of deadlines and on track with their writing. It can seem that these deadlines are too early while in the course, but, in the long run, it will make thesising not as painful as it could be.
From what I understand less busy work than last year, which is an improvement, but I still think we could meet less frequently.
This tutorial is a wonderful supplement to the thesis process. It helps you stay on track and stay calm by dividing the huge thesis project into more manageable chunks. It also gives you people in the history department who can offer advice and guidance during the process.
To be fair, Hist 99 per se is not a lot of work. And it's not particularly exciting either. It's just a requirement that you have to fulfill. That being said, it is still a very good way to keep up with your thesis work and deadlines and get some extra feedback. Carla and Heidi are both very helpful in the that regard.
You have to take it if you're writing a thesis, so the issue is really whether or not you want to do that.
YOU ARE SO LUCKY THAT YOU ARE A HISTORY CONCENTRATOR! The History dept. may not bug you junior fall to choose a topic and advisor before Christmas, but they will help you do both of those things the summer before you are back on campus and then guide you through a painless and relatively stress-free thesis-writing process. I am filling out the Q guide after having spent my second day of break working on my second chapter and I'm in a >great mood<. History 99 prepares you well.
This evaluation is really irrelevant for this course.
Thesis is your jealous boyfriend. He will behave nicely one day, and beat you up for six days straight. Know what you're getting yourself into and be prepared
well, it is simply part of writing a thesis, I would say that it is helpful and calming. (sort of like an AA meeting)
Thesis, at the end of the day a rewarding experience, but it's definitely not all fun and games.
Pay attention to the guidebook - it's the best of any department!
Send the lecture notes to us via email instead, the class meetings are a bit pointless. The thesis conference is a great event, though.
Thesises are great! But only if you want to write one.
History 99 is a great resource for senior history thesis writers. Its assignments help guide the thesis writing and research process, and there is a tremendous amount of support.
I highly recommend writing a senior thesis.
This is not a very good course, but writing a thesis is a valuable experience, so you should take the course anyway, but only because it is a requirement.
The strongest advice I can give about writing a thesis is that you really, really should  you don't necessarily have to, but you should  CARE about what you're writing. If you treat this the way you treat a normal class paper you may very well turn out okay, but with a project like this, I mean, the personal reward component is so much more important.
This course makes thesis writing much more manageable. Then again, it is mandatory.
be sure you are close with your adviser early in the semester. if you don't think they're going to be of huge or primary help definitely seek out heidi and/or ryan early and often. they're there to help! but the more they know about your project the more they can help you
Required if you want to write a thesis. Helpful, and works mostly on your schedule to help you get into and through the process.
You're taking this class because you're writing a history senior thesis - good choice. It's a lot of work, but it's also a genuinely exciting and fulfilling process.
If you are a History Concentrator, you should absolutely write a thesis.  And, if you write a thesis, you will take this class.  All in all, as a department honors requirement, this course is remarkably enjoyable, and very helpful in keeping pace with the mammoth that is the History Honors Thesis.
It's required if you're writing a thesis, but it's not the most helpful. However, I'd recommend talking to Heidi and Ryan outside class because they're both really great!
If you have to take it, you have to take it. Not much more to say.
Only do a thesis if you want to do one, not because you feel you should. I am having fun with mine because I decided I wanted to do one, but if I were dragging my heels, it would be difficult.
Well, if you're writing a thesis, you have to take it. I would say to take the deadlines seriously because it will only help you to get things in early.
