The major reservation I have is the Eurocentric readings. For those who are not focused on the West, exposure to Western historiography is useful in inserting our research into broader historiography. It would be better for those grounded in Western history to be exposed to non-Western histories so that they can engage in broader historical discussions too.
Good introduction to historiography and writing history.
Professor Johnson took what was a required proseminar and made it into a brilliantly engaging, enjoyable, and memorable class experience.
A great course that helps you think critically as an historian
This is a required course, so recommendation question is not that applicable.
Don't succumb to the grad student temptation to complain about 3900 - it's a great course, taught by excellent and dedicated faculty.
Everything you always wanted to know about history but were too afraid to ask!
More diversity.
This course provides an engaging overview of major currents in modern historical, humanistic, and social scientific thought for students beginning their professional careers. Though the volume of reading included in the syllabus sometimes limits the possibility for detailed discussions of individual texts, the course will nevertheless leave students with a heightened, valuable awareness of the questions and conundrums that they will face in their scholarly undertakings.
3900 is a rite of passage. The point is to get to know your cohort and to wrestle with ideas about the place of the historian in society and the academy, to figure out how you think of yourself as a historian, etc. -- what we actually read is almost beside the point. Go to every class, attending discussion is very important, but if you have to prioritize outside work for one course below the others, make it this one.
This is a required course, of course, so my recommendation functionally means little.  However, I would still recommend it even if it were not required, as it has much to offer for those wishing to learn about historical theory and theoretically minded historians.
try to get something from the approach of each book, even the very flawed ones.
Don't take this course too seriously--use it as a chance to meet your cohort, and explore some readings you otherwise won't get a chance to read. But do give it a shot--think of the readings as opportunities to learn something new, rather than works to lambast and tear apart.
Some texts (e.g. Novick, Scott, Bayly, and the other 'theoretical' works)  are considerably more valuable than others (many of the 'first books')
It's required if you're in History or HEAL, and no one else is allowed, so nobody really has a choice about whether to take this or not. I recommend going in with a positive attitude, and consider the value gained from reading and discussing some very important works for historians generally. I also recommend taking the time to read even those books outside your field - the total lack of interest in the one book we read on China, for instance, was quite frustrating.
The course is founded on a good idea, but it bogged down in the reading list and the clear and often unbridgeable Americanist/everyone else divide.
In my opinion, What you can learn from this course depends on how your mind are open for vast academic trends and their implications.
For the reasons I've listed above, I would not recommend this course in its current form. However, it is required of all history Ph.D. students.
Required course, so you might as well work with it.  The learning curve is steep but the material is helpful and can be quite engaging.  Don't be intimidated by unfamiliar material.
A good way to broaden your scope of history and to get a general idea of how historians write their dissertations and "first books".
Of course, you take it because you have to, but I think an open-minded attitude about how best to take advantage of the readings and the discussions can go a long way in terms of its potential benefits.
As a requirement, this class makes sense. The readings are good and discussion was usually very good. My only reservation was that the large class size made participation in difficult somewhat difficult.
Doing the readings is not entirely nessecary. Hence, my emphasis on designing the course to include more writing. I know that this implies more work for the unwilling faculty who are forced into teaching 3900, but it would make the course more useful if we learned to write like historians.
Just ride out your distaste for the long readings and discussions on topics you have no interest in, try to make connections to things you actually do care about (so you can make everyone else talk about them!) and enjoy getting to know your cohorts' quirks.
I would tell them the same thing everyone has come to tell me: This course is a yearly ritual where the preexisting positions of students are reinscribed. Everyone comes away more alienated than before.
This is a very useful class--IF you do the readings!!! The readings will help you out, and on the whole, are very interesting. But, for the love of god, do the readings or the discussions go nowhere!
Don't try to read every word, or even every chapter, of every book every week, or you will go insane. (You probably won't publish that, though).
I would recommend they campaign that it not be required.
This class is not as bad as every incoming student is told by older students (How is 3900? Isn't it awful..? Complaining about 3900 serves to build up a group identity and opens up small talk opportunities among grad students, why not..) The professors teaching the course this year were fun and overall we had a good time. However, as it stands the course is rather useless in terms of learning outcomes. You will read some books which you are interested in - others you won't read.  Hopefully, the syllabus will be revised for the next years.
It has the potential to be rewarding, and is an invaluable forum for cohort bonding, but often fails in its goal of providing methodological lessons/frameworks/approaches that students can reapply to their own fields.
Gotta take it. Learn to cope.
That it will open their eyes to areas of history they might previously have considered beyond their area of interest, and that it will expose them to examples of historiography that they should take as both a model and a standard.
Well, it is a requirement for most who take it, and it changes every year, so hopefully it will keep getting better.
Although most history students dread the thought of methodology, this class was one situation in which the intellectual legacy of our profession was brought to the forefront. Not only did we learn how the historical profession developed over time, but about the broader theoretical and philosophical issues that historians confront in their daily work. It should not be mandatory to take a class focused on "why be a historian" but it is useful to take one on how to be a historian.
What choice would I have but to recommend it? They can't get out of it. I would recommend that they do the readings and engage with them on their own time, because it's not likely they'll get a lot of out the discussions in class. Baptism by fire.
All history PhD candidates are required to take this course; however, a student is best served by not thinking about this course as a requirement with a sat/unsat grade.  Instead, students should consider this course an opportunity to learn from excellent readings and professors.
Just have fun with it and don't take it too seriously.
This has not been a terribly pleasant experience, but it has been useful.
Try to approach the literature as if you had never read it before and search for new aspects that could help your own research.
Recommendation regardless, it is required.  Use it as an opportunity to probe your peers and find out who you'll be working with over the next five years.
Gives good general knowledge for historians.
To be frank, people take this course because they are required to, and as with all such requirements, it would be interesting to apply free market principles to this course and see what the demand for such a course would really be.
It is a required class, but much can be gained from it, particularly in getting to know your peers and having really interesting discussions.
Be prepared to read books on topics that are not of interest to you at all, not for their content, but for the worth of their argument and their style of writing.
There is just enough work to make it annoying and not enough to make it really interesting. (But it's not like you have a choice.)
Use this class as an opportunity to get to know your cohort, and come in with an open mind about the readings so you can absorb as much as you can about the books and about your classmates' areas of expertise.
The course is most useful for getting to know your cohort, and I think it is important to approach the course with an open mind and an understanding that the course serves a different role than most graduate courses.
