It's interesting but perhaps hard to follow at times.
This course was incredibly easy and very enjoyable. The material was interesting and the teaching staff was very nice. Professor Rothschild is delightful. It is not a life-changing class, but the material is interesting to discuss.
This class is a joy to take. The workload is very fair, and the material covered lends itself to some very interesting discussion and debate in section.
awesome class, cool material, great section (if you get shane).
Take this class if you will do all of the readings and actively engage. There is a way to do the minimum amount of work and do just fine, but you will not get much out of the class.
If you're looking for an easy class with low workload that's also interesting and well-taught (and who isn't?) this is the class for you!
It's a bit basic, and standards are low, but other than that, the teaching, and section in particular, is excellent and really sparks an appreciation of history.
The course turns out to be far less intellectually demanding and stimulating than advertised! little actually reading is required and lecture content is light. If you're looking for a gut with a nice title and a couple interesting ideas thrown in, here you are. If you're hoping for an experience where you really grow intellectually, I'd look elsewhere.
This course had various strengths: readings were selected carefully and were brief enough to allow you to absorb them; the TFs were very knowledgable; and the assignments were not overwhelming and the teaching staff was very happy to help at all stages. Section always increased my understanding of the readings considerably. The TFs seem excellent at making connections over the course of a class that spans an enormous amount of space and time. However, lectures were very unclear. The tangents mixed constantly with the course material. It would have helped if lecture slides had had more substance, instead of pictures and occasional quotations of economists. Also, the fact that there is no final and no assignment after the midterm dependent on the readings or lecture material means people stop reading and coming to lecture halfway through the course. This course seemed to be easily graded compared to other history courses.
This class is great! I recommend it to anyone interested in how economic thought has evolved over the past several centuries. The work-load is very reasonable and manageable, and lends itself well to interesting and engaging discussions in section.
Very interesting subject matter and not a difficult course, but lectures could seem pointless at times, especially as the semester went on.
Rothschild is a great lecturer, but the class is rather disorganized, and some sort of prior background in the language and theory of economics would be helpful. It's the sort of thing where you get out what you put in - it's definitely possible to get by without really doing the readings, but if you put in the effort, you'll learn a lot. There's a lot of room for originality in terms of topics for the group project and final paper, which is nice. Also, all the readings are free on the iSite, which was a really unexpected and awesome benefit!
This course is an easy elective that you should take if you're interested in the subject but aren't yet sure whether you want to concentrate in something like history with an emphasis on economics. There's no real econ in this course i.e. no problems or math, so if you don't like math, take it. Colleen is an awesome TF and Shane is also very helpful.
Perfect course. Interesting, light-work load, nice professor, and amazing TF staff. You really couldn't ask for more.
This was an excellent and well-paced introduction to economic history, with a great teaching staff. While I hesitate to mention TF's by name as they change regularly, Shane is an exceptional TF and a great guy to talk to about pretty much anything.
if you like economics and history you will love this course
For anybody remotely interested in learning about the development of economic ideas, this is an excellent course to take. The teaching staff are very well organized and take good care of all their students. Professor Rothschild was a great lecturer and easy to reach out via office hours. A course I really enjoyed and am glad I took.
This class is very manageable and you learn a decent amount on the history of economic though, not to be confused with the history of economics.  The section leaders are all great.
Shane is amazing.
Easy class in which you learn about great thinkers like Condorcet and Smith in a historical and economic context.
History of Economic Thought is a great way to be introduced to economics and/or to engage with economics in a different way than you may have done before. The perspectives provided on economic thought makes economics feel more like a social science than the more maths-based approach of today. Sometimes lecture can be dry but Professor Rothschild is great, and always happy to help outside of class. Material is more than manageable and well chosen.
If you're interested in this topic, definitely take this class
Great class, interesting readings. Lectures are somewhat unnecessary -- sections are great.
Overall, a good class where you know what is expected from you - not one where you'll be up at night stressed.
Make the most of the readings, and be sure to utilize office hours with Professor Rothschild and your TF.
Great course. Really interesting readings from some of the most prominent Economic thinkers. Both interesting and painless, a rare combination. Take this course! I now have a broader grasp of economic theory than I did from my economics classes alone. I enjoyed this course.
This is a great course if you are looking for a foundational history of economic thought--or simply a course led by a fascinating professor and highly engaged and fun teaching staff! The work is minimal but very interesting. Highly recommend!
I really enjoyed the course. In my opinion, what truly make a difference was the section part of the course. The teaching assistant was extremely dedicated and accessible, encouraged discussions effectively, and sparked my interest in the subject. The feedback you receive on assignments is another strength of this course. This course is not too challenging and is extremely useful for any economics concentrator.
This is the best history class you could hope to take. It's not hard, it's interesting, the TFs are brilliant and so beyond nice and accommodating. The Professor is also very nice and passionate. I would take this class again in a second. You learn a lot and you don't have to work too hard and the projects and assignments are fun and very much self-motivated.
This class is great. It is interesting and not too difficult. The work load is manageable. The assignments are actually enjoyable. Professor Rothschild is incredible. She has the best stories. The TFs are really invested in teaching and provide many resources to students about writing, concentrations, history, and more.
This class gives a great, broad overview of the history of economic thought. Coming in knowing little to nothing about the subject, I come out feeling fairly comfortable with the basic trends, themes, and thinkers. Professor Rothschild is a great professor--very knowledgeable about the subject and very engaged in the class.
Very interesting and broad introduction to the history of economic thought. Great assignments and knowledgeable TFs. Professor Rothschild delivers insightful lectures as a prominent Historian. Final paper can also count for writing requirement for economics concentrators! Definitely take this course.
Very painless, and enjoyable, fourth or fifth class. Do put in the few hours it takes to do the readings, and talk with the tfs and Prof Rothschild  who really go above and beyond to try to help and listen to students  because you'll get exponentially more out of the class that way.
The TF's are great. The workload is not difficult and there is no final.
It's fun and not too much work.
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Rothschild presents all of her information in concise powerpoints that are not at all boring, especially with her commentary. The course lectures and readings compliment and build upon one another, and with both you will learn a vast amount of integrated historical knowledge.
You will genuinely enjoy the work you do in this class.
This class is not at all stressful until the final paper. Lecture is quick, although more enjoyable in the first half of the class. Midterm is totally fine, and project too. Section was enjoyable, and most of the TFs were terrific (Emma, Shane and Colleen were all really well-liked by students). The final paper, however, comes with very little guidance. Be proactive and start early, try to get your TF to give you specific topics.
Great for an overview, but not as critical or as integrated (in the sense of effectively drawing themes together across different economists and eras) as I would have liked.
Take this class! The workload is very reasonable and the assignments are easily managed even with a tough schedule. The group projects can be fun if you get a good group and the final paper is largely driven by your own interests so you can really dig into what interests you. Great course!
The readings are pretty short, but usually pretty interesting--worth doing.
Awesome course: you will learn about some of the most important economic thinkers, and you will improve your ability to think about major economic issues.
This course is a fantastic way of getting an introductory experience with the history of economic thought. You are exposed to a wide range of important economists and figures, and you will emerge having a much stronger understanding of the history of ideas over time.
This is an extremely good course to get perspective on the history of economic thought. The course covers a broad range of economists and economic ideas. The teaching staff is extremely helpful, especially the head TF Shane Bobrycki! The midterm is easy if you've done your readings well and the collaborative project and final paper is a great way to pursue your individual interest in the subject. The teaching staff is always willing to help you with whatever queries you may have. I loved the course!
It is GREAT! The readings are all interesting, and its nice to be able to read famous economists in their original form.
The scope of this course is ambitious- 200 years of economic history- and the reading is fairly light, so you leave more with a sense of trends in the history of economic thought than a concrete picture. That being said, what you really learn is about the assumptions economists make, how they address the problems of their day, and how they argue with each other. You really understand the discipline more by studying it, even if you don't get a clear-cut picture of its development
I highly, highly recommend this course, especially to someone who has never taken a history course before. I am a Statistics concentrator with an interest in economics, and this course, I can say with confidence, was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. The readings were enlightening and the section (Shane) was amazing. I wish, however, that there weren't so many history concentrators in the course, as it seems to be more geared towards students with minimal background in history. Nevertheless, it was the best introduction to the history of economic thought for me, and I encourage everyone to take it.
Relatively easy course that was super relevant to both economic and historical analysis. The lectures were a bit on the dry side, but they usually took up less than the full hour. Shane was super helpful was the best TF I've ever had at Harvard, and among the most intelligent people I've encountered here at Harvard.
This class is great! A fascinating look at economic history from a large number of primary sources. It could be a little more demanding, though.
Take this class! It is easy and interesting if you engage with the section readings.
Pretty straightforward interesting course...if you need lectures with a lot of structure this may not be for you...nice that the final paper counted toward the econ department writing requirement
Gives you a basic, yet comprehensive understanding of many of the most important economists of the past 300 years. Is a great way to round out an economics degree or to add another interesting component to a history concentration.
This is an awesome course!!
I would encourage any Harvard student from any background to take this class.  Emma Rothschild is a rockstar professor and one of the nicest people you will ever meet. Both professor and section leaders are extremely helpful and extremely fascinating. Lectures keep you engaged, and are often relevant to modern topics. Sections provoke engaging discussion, with the TF in a moderator role to guide rather than to strictly control dialogue.  Do the readings: there aren't that many and they're often quite fascinating (in particular the Sen and Banerjee readings on rationality). Shane is one of the best TFs I've ever had at Harvard: sections with him are fun, informative, and hilarious. He'll drill the topics into you in a way that you can learn and remember. This class discusses a lot of topics that are relevant to modern-day discussions (e.g. ideas from Ricardo, Malthus, Bagehot, etc). Take this class!
Solid class. Little work, Emma's great, interesting material.
Very easy, but still pretty interesting.
This is the perfect history lecture course to balance a heavy course load like when you're in a tough seminar or tutorial. The readings are interesting but it is not the end of the world if you don't get to them all after the midterm is done. Think of the lectures as a time, particularly post-midterm, to sit and relax while listening to a fantastic professor talk about the subject with terrific mastery. The teaching staff was fantastic as well, and the midterm/project/paper  structure was a fine workload.
If you have any background in the history of economic thought, this will be very easy for you. If you don't have any background in economics, you'll have a lot of difficulty understanding the ideas being discussed. Other than that, an interesting and easy course.
This course is easy, but dull. Take it if you want a space-filler, don't if you want a meaningful introduction to the History of Economic Thought.
Really interesting material and great professor. It was a new course and there are some kinks to be worked out, but overall I'd definitely recommend it to anyone interested in economic thought.
I really enjoyed this class. Economic History is something scarcely taught at Harvard and needless to say it is fascinating to study. I also think that Prof. Rothschild is excellent. If you take the time to ask her thoughtful questions about the issues discussed in the course and meet her in office hours, she will be very helpful and good to you. And the TF staff for this class was exceptional. Shane and Tyler are both brilliant and totally enjoyable to be around. Also, the class is really not too difficult. The papers have flexible topics, the midterm was reasonable, and the readings are both engaging and things you should be doing anyway if you are a History or Econ concentrator--Adam Smith, Marx, Keynes, Ricardo, Malthus, Samuelson, etc. Very good class
Emma Rothschild is one of the best professors at Harvard, and I can't sing her praises enough - she really cares about her students and her knowledge of the subject matter and her expertise in this field (history of economic thought) is really inspiring. Any historians, or ec concentrators interested in the history of economic thought will find this course extremely valuable and fun.The course is very well designed and the materials are both effective, and also balanced in terms of reading/workload and the timing of assignments. The current TFs, Tyler and Shane are both just brilliant and hold fantastic sections - take this class, it's really fantastic!
If you are looking for a substantive course with great teaching staff, take this course!
Very interesting topic and course.  Professor and TF's were awesome!  Reading is totally manageable.  Midterm is fairly comprehensive so be careful.
This class had the potential to be good.  it did not live up to that potential.  Professor Rothschild was disorganized and not committed to the class at all, often arriving late to class or having the TFs lecture.  We didn't receive a full syllabus until October.  The readings and sections did not require much thought and I got very little out of it.  I would make sure some significant changes had been made before taking the class.
An opportunity to learn about the history of economics with a leading authority in the field.
take it. rothschild. nugh said
While as a new class this course certainly has many organization kinks to work out, I would definitely recommend this class to anyone interested in economic theory history because it touches on many topics that are interesting and diverse. The assignments provide a lot of flexibility and room for creativity, and Professor Rothschild and both TFs are approachable and nice--generally superb people!
Not knowing much about economics, it was interesting to see how concepts about its development related to contemporary history. It is also interesting material to read generally, and especially given the economic discussions currently.
Take this class; if you are an ec or history concentrator, it's a breath of fresh air. Interesting subject matter and meaningful assignments. If Shane is TFing, definitely get his section--he was the best TF I've had at Harvard.
The professors and section leaders are very enthusiastic and helpful when you need, and accessible for discussion of your work, as well as providing relevant and consistent feedback. The workload isn't overwhelming. Work throughout the year consists entirely of reading, written work is just for the group project, paper and exam.
Take only if truly interested in material. Not a class to be taken lightly.
Section is fantastic, assuming your TF will be as good as Shane. Do the readings.
If you're interested in learning about some very cool thinkers, this class couldn't be much better.  Very painless, very easy, and interesting
Great class and you learn a lot. Shane is an awesome and incredibly bright TF.
Professor Rothschild means well, but is terribly unrorganized, rather bland, and is frequently running late.
ENROLL if you like history or economy. Regardless which is it that you like.
If you like the history and economics, then you should take this class.  It's not very hard, and it provides a useful introduction to the development of economic thought from Adam Smith to the present.  The lectures can be a bit disorganized, but the readings make up for that.  Prof Rothschild is very nice, and the TFs are great, too.
Really good idea if you want a survey of economic thought since Adam Smith. In my opinion, this should be a compulsory class for all econ concentrators!
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard
Cool class, not too difficult, fun and interesting material
