The teaching staff are awesome and engaging. Take this course if you're interested, but be careful if you're not used to writing analytical papers.
Interesting material. The paper grading is erratic, but the test/assessment questions were fair. Both the professor and the TF were very kind people who took a genuine interest in their students.
I really learned a lotI recommend the class because it covers a significant time period and geography as wellThe course material is really very good. I loved the bibliography provided  as well as the electronic sources and lectures
This course, while informative, is not particularly enjoyable.
If you're passionate about this area in history, this is the perfect class.
This course does an excellent job of demonstrating the complexity and significance of Byzantine history. Prof. Angelov and Ece both are wonderful teachers.
This class was my favorite class at Harvard so far. The lectures can be a little bit dry but they are still so good because you can tell the professor is so passionate about the Byzantines. TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!!
There is definitely a desire to serve the students (as evidenced by our free trip to Washington DC), though lectures could be disorganized and expectations not always the clearest.
I loved this class. Prof. Angelov and Ece are wonderful! And the trip to Dumbarton Oaks in DC was icing on the cake. The workload and readings are definitely manageable and they give you plenty of advanced notice. This class was EXTREMELY well-organized and if you're at all interested in Byzantine History (as I was) TAKE THIS COURSE. Even if you're not, take it because you will be.
If you're at all interested in Byzantium, or learning about the Mediterranean world, this is a course I would recommend.
Strong class with good readings and interesting lectures.
This course is a great introduction to Byzantine history and the historical method. The subject matter often has a negative connotation due to inherited perceptions of the Byzantines from the outside, but this course will allow you to explore the realities, successes, and failures of one of the world's most important states.
This is a very good intro course on the Byzantines and a good straight up history course in general. Lecture is sometimes a little dry, but overall a pretty good course. Very fair, no punches pulled.
This class will definitely appear obscure at first (especially if one bases their judgement on the word "Byzantine"). However, the course examines a culture and people who managed to stave off obstructive eras, peoples, empires, and ideas for well over a millenia. In a way, one really grows fascinated with the Byzantines and how connected they truly are to modern world. The class is one you won't regret taking; it was definitely one of my favorite throughout my time at Harvard.
If you've ever been even remotely interested in the Byzantine Empire (or don't know anything about Byzantium at all), then take this course.  It's a wonderful introduction to Byzantine history, the primary source readings are fantastic, and Professor Angelov gives great lectures.
Wow. This class was really interesting and well taught. Professor Angelov was engaging and brought the Byzantine empire to life with his lectures. Claire was an awesome TF and made sections really enjoyable. I would definitely recommend if you have any interest in the topic at all.
This course is an excellent introduction to history. The two page papers are a challenge unlike most other college papers in that they require brevity and concise writing, which is a critical skill to hone for the future. The midterm/final were ID/essays in format, and the essay questions were very fair. If you attended lecture and supplemented with course readings in the areas that you felt you needed background information, you should have no problem doing well.
This is a great class, just make sure to pay attention in lecture, as there is a lot of information thrown at you that can prove vital on the midterm and final. The assigned readings help reinforce what was discussed in lecture.
The course is really well-structured. Prof Angelov moves through material thematically and chronologically, which is helpful for understanding the progress of the Empire. The assignments aren't too grueling, though I will say there is a lot of material to learn for the final exam.
This course is very straight forward.  You will become very knowledgeable on every aspect of the civilization.  The papers are very short and the exams are extremely manageable. You get out of this class what you put into it.  Prof. Angelov is a great lecturer.
This is an interesting course that is not too strenuous. If you are interested in Roman or medieval history, this course definitely meets those interests. If you are taking this course to fill a gen-ed requirement, this is still a relatively easy introduction to the field of history, and a nice survey of a very interesting culture and time period. There are no long papers to write; the only things that could pose a challenge is the large amount of primary source reading.
This is a great class if you are looking for a fairly casual introduction to an area of history that was most likely not covered in your standard history curriculum. The professor is extremely well-versed in the subject and provides interesting lectures.
This was hands down my favorite class at Harvard. It was my first history class here ever and it was the best possible decision I could have made. Lectures are so well structured and delivered. The topic is so cool and so interesting. It's also a relatively easy A- when it comes to grading although you probably have to work to get an A. I just love the professor and how much he cares about the students and loves the topic. It's truly inspiring and such a joy to attend his class.
Prof. Angelov has an infectious enthusiasm for Byzantine history which he shares with his students over the course of the semester. The assignments and readings are structured so as to be accessible to students without prior experience with Byzantium (or, for that matter, the discipline of history). Be sure to take advantage of the many opportunities which Prof. Angelov offers to supplement your knowledge with optional sections, museum visits, etc.
This is a good class if you're very interested in pre-modern or Byzantine history, but it can be hard to follow the lectures and make notes. The course and exams require you to get a good chronological and thematic grasp of the material being taught so it requires a good deal of effort. I wouldn't take it as an easy course.
AMAZING CLASS! This was by far my favorite class of the semester.  Prof Angelov is an awesome lecturer, the material is fascinating, and the sections are terrific!  TAKE THIS CLASS!
If you are in any way interested in history, take this course. You will get to learn about a powerful empire that is often ignored and has been erroneously viewed as barbarian in the West. The things you learn about the Slavs, Bulgars, Arabs, Ottomans, Venetians, Latins are also fascinating and together form a fuller picture of Europe as a whole. Rome certainly did not end with the fall of the West, but rather lived on. Experience it by taking this course.
This is a wonderful gen ed to ease into the history department. It refuses to be demanding while providing a riveting account of a lost culture. All the fat is trimmed, all the tedium, culled.
