Professor Chaplin really makes an effort to help everyone write the best possible term paper. In a history department that offers shockingly few American history classes, this class not only gives students a rich understanding of Franklins life, but also a good background in 18th century American history. However, class discussions can sometimes be a bit dull.
This class is amazing! Professor Chaplin is great and an expert on Franklin. The whole class is really relaxed and fun and the workload is very manageable. It's surprisingly interesting to focus on studying one person for an entire semester. I would definitely recommend it to history concentrators and non-concentrators alike.
Fun and relaxed romp through Franklin's life. A great course.
There is no better way to learn about Benjamin Franklin and through his life, 18th century American history. Professor Chaplin provides plenty of guidance for the research paper and brings delicious baked treats to seminar occasionally. It's a great class for those interested in early American history and Franklin and the readings are manageable and interesting.
This is one of the best courses at Harvard!  If you do nothing else at Harvard, take this course!!  Prof. Chaplin is phenomenal.
This course will teach you a great deal about one of the most important figures in American history, as well as about the many worlds in which he moved.  The primary and secondary sources assigned each week are always interesting and informative.  Most of the secondary sources are obviously historical, but there were some wonderful pieces of literary criticism as well.  Finally, the chance to learn from Professor Chaplin is an opportunity not to be missed.  She knows just about everything one could possibly know about Benjamin Franklin, and she will help you to craft a final paper that is interesting and worthwhile.  She has taught this course several times before, so it quite well-conceived by now.  The course was a wonderful experience all-around.
Definitely have some interest in BF before you take this class; it goes beyond a colonial American history vantage point.  Prof. Chaplin is incredibly smart, helpful, and facilitates excellent discussions. The readings are very interesting.
This is a great course, especially for students interested in colonial history. Professor Chaplin is incredibly knowledgeable about Benjamin Franklin so you learn a tremendous amount from her. She has a wonderful sense of humor and consistently adds her insightful comments when leading discussions each week. You will have the opportunity to go on several exciting field trips to see historical texts and scientific artifacts that relate to Franklin's life. This is a must-take course for any student interested in colonial history, but perhaps not the greatest option for those who are not.
Professor Chaplin is an expert- and an amazing professor! I highly recommend
Prof. Chaplin appears to know just about everything there is to know about Ben Franklin, which makes for a very informed seminar experience. Furthermore, she devotes a lot of time to meeting with students to give writing feedback.  The final research paper was a pretty rewarding academic process as a result of the time she put in to helping us prepare.  One downside to the class was that energy frequently waned in our seminar, which made some classes hard to get through. Overall I'd say the ideal candidate for this class has a genuine interest in the colonial period as well as some background knowledge about the period --I liked Prof. Chapin and the style of the class, but at the end of the day the exceedingly Ben Franklin-centric subject matter didn't captivate me as much as I hoped it would.
Eighteenth century fans must take this class.
Great course!
This class can be very enjoyable as long as you have an interest in the material.
Do the reading. Otherwise there's no point. At all.
This was easily one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. The instruction, the in-class discussion, the reading materials, and assignments were all among the best I've had during my entire time at Harvard.
It's fantastic!!! Definitely take it if you're interested in Benjamin Franklin or American history and looking for a class where you can pursue your own interests. That said, if you're going to get sick of him after 12 weeks, perhaps reconsider.
Fantastic class on an incredible man. You'll be sure to take away some great life lessons from this Founding Father's work.
The professor is probably the #1 reason to take this course.
This is an excellent class with an excellent Professor teaching the history of a profound man, Benjamin Franklin. The class allows one to learn the many different aspects of Benjamin Franklin's life that is not otherwise known through his stereotypical image in America.
A top-notch course, and one of the department's best seminars. A fascinating look at one of the most compelling figures in American history, period. A great professor, and the opportunity to chew over great readings, plus plum cake. What's not to love?
Take this course.  Professor Chaplin is an inspired teacher and the readings are interesting.  Totally manageable workload throughout term and then the chance to do almost anything Franklin related for final research paper.
This class was amazing. Very little work required for a seminar-type class yet you still get so much from it. If you have any interest in colonial America or England at this time, take this class!
Interesting, not too challenging, and Prof. Chaplin is incredible.
Great class.  The readings were great and the class discussions were usually enjoyable.  I think you have to be an American history buff to really get the most out of this course, but if you are, do what you can to get into it.  One of those classes where I actually looked forward to going every week.
This will definitely be ranked as one of my favorite courses taken at Harvard.  Professor Chaplin is incredible, and the course itself is so perfectly crafted, so finely tuned after years of experience, that it is now an experience to merely enjoy.  Look forward to Professor Chaplin's fruit cake!
If you are interested in 18th-century history in any region, you can definitely find something useful for your understanding of the period through both primary sources and secondary articles. A well-balanced course.
Amazing class that gets you really acquainted with Franklin.  If you put the appropriate time/care into it, you can really come out with a nice piece of research at the end.
This class is a great way to see the many sides of a great and fascinating man, Benjamin Franklin. He is such a useful lens through which one can examine the 18th century, this is really a must take class if you are interested in colonial America, or just the 18th century in general.
