Professor Johnson is an incredibly sharp thinker and intellectually very generous.  I really valued him as an educator more than I have most other professors.  The syllabus is more or less a grab bag of books and articles that have to do with the history of the body in some way, but the readings lent themselves to consistently interesting discussions.  You definitely have to put some thought into the readings to get anything out of the course, but it's worth it if you're interested in historical and theoretical issues regarding the body.
This is one those courses that none of your friends will quite understand. But take it anyway because the readings and discussions are incredibly interesting and because Professor Johnson is a great discussion leader. This course will introduce you to ways of thinking about history (not only with regard to the human body, but also ethics and politics) that you simply will not get in other courses at Harvard. There is no overarching theme, so every week is a new book and a new topic. You might discuss slavery, torture, warfare, starvation, sex and gender, vision, technology, biopolitics and biopower, etc. You will write weekly response papers and a final fifteen-page historiographical essay on a topic of your choosing. This course is both engaging and intense, relaxed and writing- and reading-heavy. I cannot recommend it highly enough.
The readings were fantastic. Professor Johnson is a really interesting thinker and he is absolutely great at facilitating insightful and challenging discussion. If you want a class that will challenge you and the way you look at the world then this is a great class for you but be prepared to do some lengthy and dense readings. Completely worth it though! This is one of my favorite classes I have ever taken here.
Take it.  A nice amount of  work, but worth  it.
This class is one of the best I have taken at Harvard because the professor was fantastic! Using the body as a lens for debates at the intersection of social theory and history was a thought-provoking way to explore these fields, which might otherwise seem vast or overwhelming.
Take the class for the professor, take the readings with a huge box of salt, and enjoy.
Take this course because the readings and professor are amongst the best I've had at Harvard.
This class was difficult. There was a lot of reading, and sometimes it was academic enough to make its vernacular esoteric to the point that it was hard to comprehend. This, however, was mostly not the case. The books were usually very interesting, and discussions always proved fascinating. If you are comfortable with a lot of reading and deep thought, this might be the class for you.
A real mind-bender of a class.  Yes, nominally it's about "bodies" -- a vastly fascinating topic, I assure you -- but this would be a valuable course to take for anyone who wants to think about what it means to write history, and how (what are the different ways?) it can be done.  Also, Professor Johnson is pretty much off the wall and it's exciting to be in a discussion with him.
The readings are great, but the professor was extremely unhelpful.
There's a lot of work, but Walter is a really fun seminar leader.
This is a great reading seminar, very interesting. Be prepared to work though!
