I didn't think the lectures were all that strong, especially in the second half of the semester. I think the idea and the structure of the class is good,though.
I felt like I learned about history in this class but also how to look at historical documents critically to understand their significance.
Stay on top of the reading and go to class.
This was an interesting class with good material and great section leaders. The only negative would be the Professor's manner of teaching in lectures.
Great for hist/lit students!
Fun and very informative.
It was a good way to get really comfortable with the implications and outside effects of the civil war.
Course challenges you to think about why we remember certain historical events in a certain way. It forces you to think about interpretations and representations of the war shape your remembrance and understanding of the war and the problems that can raise. It also emphasizes that history is constructed and that often narratives are marginalized or left out of the histories we read and learn in school.
I thought this class was incredibly interesting. I was a little nervous to take it because of all of the writing, but the questions were interesting and  the TFs and professor answered any questions I had.
It's a good class, but I thought the lectures were weak.  Good material, but the presentation of the material wasn't always the most captivating to listen to.
This class is less about the Civil War and more about the role of slaves and African-Americans in the U.S. in the 19th and early 20th centuries.
The class is engaging but does not require an overwhelming amount of reading or writing.  The weekly response papers are useful and give you many opportunities to improve your grade.
It was an interesting set-up that turned out to be very rewarding.
Class was easy and the first half was interesting but it tailed off towards the end as lectures became very short and lacked substance.  Might be better for non-history majors who need a history class.
Even if you have taken a course on the Civil War before, you will still learn a lot from this class. Prof. O'Donovan covers a wide chronological period and emphasizes the role of slavery and emancipation. If you're looking for a course on battles, this is not the course for you, but I'd recommend it to you anyway.
It is a very interesting and unconventional class. The films are great, and the weekly essays keep you on your toes. You will work some, but it is pretty rewarding. This course is not just about the Civil War; if you want to learn about Lee and Gettysburg and Appomattox, this is that course, but there's a lot more than meets the eye, and that's what's cool.
Great lectures. The readings were a bit long, but the work was reasonable and discussions interesting.
I would recommend this class if you want to learn Japanese WWII history.  Come to class prepared to discuss the readings--mark passages you want to discuss so that you can find them quickly during discussion.
Class size is a factor to consider -- conversation stalls in smaller groups.  Graduate students dominate discussion questions and answers; information is often presented as an afterthought for undergraduates.
This class is great-- Professor Yellen is very laid-back and kind, and incredibly helpful, especially with the final paper. Also, I have never enjoyed a reading list as much as I did with this course, and even though it was really heavy at times, it was usually very worth it. Take this class if you can!
