This is one of the best opportunities I've seen to work with and create a meaningful relationship with a faculty member.
You will gain new skills and practical research experience.
Definitely take this course! The skills that you learn will be very valuable as a student of history, the workload is very manageable, and chances are you will be able to find a topic that matches your interests
A great class; prepare to try to engage fully with professor/anticipate needs
Be aware that the first half of the course did include a lot of busy work and we didn't really have the freedom to explore our own interests until after spring break.
I would definitely recommend that all history students explore any history lab courses that they find interesting.
Take this course if you are an independent learner and feeling adventurous. The topic is fascinating, and digital history has a ton of potential. It would be helpful to have computer science background, but it is not necessary.
working with Lepore is incredible- you'll have lots of flexibility to do whatever work you think will be interesting. the only stressful part is knowing exactly how much she wants from us.
If there is a professor who you have a relationship with, who you would love to work more closely with, whose research field overlaps with your interest, and they're offering a class through 92r, then it's a no brainer, definitely take it.
Taking this course was one of the highlights of my college career-- I loved the people in the course, and I felt like I was a part of a really engaged group of scholars working on a very interesting and engaging project.
Prof Lepore is such a great instructor - so kind and so smart. Really being in a small class with her was a really great opportunity.
History Lab will always be a unique experience. If you are lucky enough to take it with Jill Lepore or another amazing History faculty member, don't think twice and go for it! Super fun, independent, creative academic experience. It's what you come to Harvard to do!
This class is fantastic!  Gabe is an incredible mentor for projects, and this course provides a wonderful opportunity to perform historical research, primarily with digital history.  I learned an enormous amount this semester.  Furthermore, Gabe was always helpful and available for questions.  I truly recommend this class as highly as I possibly can!
