This course is incredibly interesting. It is very demanding, but worth the effort. Since the course is just once a week, you always had to come to class prepared and ready to make some important points. Every history or gov student should try to take at least one course taught by Niall Ferguson before they graduate. (Don't leave for Stanford, Niall!)
There is a reason that it is notoriously difficult to get into this course. Taught at a very high level with extensive reading and fast-paced class discussions, this class is not for those who hope to take an easy history seminar, but rather for those very interested in the topic or hoping to write a thesis. Without Professor Ferguson leading the class however, it will inherently be very different, if it is still offered at all. Moreover, with Professor Ferguson, do not necessarily taking this expecting that it will be an easy way to get to know a professor, like is the case for other seminars. You really have to fight for time with Ferguson and his 15-minute office hour slots, offered somewhat irregularly.
Sorry you can't take this :(
Fantastic course!
Though I don't think this will ever be offered again, I think the opportunity to study Kissinger with Ferguson is impossible to pass up if you ever get the chance again.
Very unfortunate that the professor is leaving; this is an excellent class that gives students a great opportunity to delve into a fascinating period, and to meet a key figure in world history.
Most rewarding class I've taken-- take it! Great discussions & prof puts a lot of work into it.
What's not to like? A chance to learn about the most famous statesman of the 20th century from the historian who undoubtedly knows him best? Ferguson is great at generating interesting discussions, and while the class was certainly "pro-Kissinger," it was not the hero worship I was expecting, thankfully.  I think it's useful to be exposed to something other than the constant barrage of literature excoriating Kissinger for war, and as a progressive, I've come to doubt the accuracy of those who either love or hate Kissinger. This course taught me that the man was brilliant, complicated, and flawed, and that statesmanship is challenging and rewarding. It's the best course I've taken at Harvard by far, and I'm sad that Prof. Ferguson is leaving.
Superb course, and no complaints! This class won't be offered again because Ferguson is leaving, but if you're reading this before the spring 2016 term, take ANYTHING he's teaching in his last semester at Harvard
This class is great. It's too bad Ferguson will never be offering it at Harvard again.
You are offered the opportunity to learn about the most important person in American foreign policy. This class teaches you more about how to think about foreign policy and American values than any other class I've encountered.
Great class! Learned a lot about strategic thinking and foreign policy in the 1960s/70s. Professor Ferguson is an incredible lecturer and educator. If you haven't, you should definitely take a class with him before you graduate.
Take this class.  Professor Ferguson is fabulous, and here he is a teaching a subject about which he is the foremost expert.  The other students in the seminar are also excellent, and everyone is working to gain a better understanding of the subject matter, and to improve themselves as academics.  That, and there is a possibility of going to New York to actually meet with Henry Kissinger.  Do the readings, figure out what each reading is trying to say, and be sure to contribute to discussion; it's fun and you'll receive great feedback.  Overall, this class has been one of my favorite academic experiences at Harvard.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!! Hands down my favorite course at Harvard so far. It's fascinating to learn about Dr. Kissinger's theory on world order and how he applies it to the practice of foreign policy decision making. What course can be better than a seminar taught by Professor Ferguson on one of the most influential and controversial political figures of the 20th century? 
Be ready to do lots of heavy reading.
Kissinger is one of the most fascinating individuals in history to study and this class will teach you a great deal about how to conduct a successful foreign policy and what it takes to be a statesman.
If you love history and are up for a challenge, Professor Ferguson is your man. This is an incredible class.
If there is ever a course that you should try to take, it's this one. Prof. Ferguson is brilliant and an incredible teacher. The topic is fascinating, the discussions are as well, and meeting Dr. Kissinger himself at the end of the semester was an experience that I will never forget.
Best class at Harvard.  It's a pretty unbelievable class if you can get in and a high-powered discussion every week that you have to be on your game for. Try to soak as much of discussion in as you can.  Ferguson and your classmates have a lot of interesting things to say about the matter, and you're going to learn a lot of interesting viewpoints of how foreign policy was conducted (and still is today).  The relevancy that Ferguson brings is quite cool and exciting for a history concentrator to see.  We also had the opportunity to meet Dr. Kissinger in New York, which was mind-blowing after reading so much about him.
A great class. Ferguson is in his element in this class.  Be prepared to do a lot of reading though.
This class is incredible, but just make sure you are ok with the time required - it is substantially more work than other similar seminars. That being said, this class was one of the highlights of my time at Harvard, so definitely take it if you can.
This class if definitely interesting for students interested in modern history and foreign policy, and it also seemed to have a fairly moderate workload in comparison to other history research seminars.
This was a great class. I didn't know anything about Kissinger beforehand, but studying diplomacy turned out to be fascinating. It's not too much work (just heavy reading) and Ferguson is a great professor.
This is a very difficult course that requires a lot. Prof. Ferguson assigns a great deal of reading and expects one to read it all closely. Likewise the research paper is daunting, but I still felt the class was worth it.
Professor Ferguson was an EXCELLENT teacher with lots of interesting insights into not only Kissinger's life and career, but also American foreign policy at large.  I learned an immense amount from the course, and really enjoyed it!  Getting to go to New York and meet Henry Kissinger at the end of the course was not a bad perk either.
If you are interested in  diplomacy and/or national security strategy in the post WWII period, this is a great course for you. You will learn an enormous amount by examining Kissinger's statecraft. Be prepared, however, for some bias towards Kissinger.
Absolutely take the class, a splendid class on a deeply important figure with a finale in New York meeting the subject of the class - Henry Kissinger!
It's very interesting to study one of the most important and controversial Americans of the 20th century. Professor Ferguson's relationship with and knowledge of Kissinger means you get access to readings and documents most people would not, and it's definitely worth taking if you get to meet him at the end, as we did.
By far the most rewarding academic experience at Harvard. The opportunity to spend 2 hours a week with Professor Ferguson examining one of the core individuals of American foreign policy of the last half century should not be passed over. Do all the readings because you'll get way more out of the course. Ferguson is accessible and friendly as well.
Professor Ferguson is brilliant and very accessible. The material is really interesting and the readings are great. Highly recommend as a research seminar.
Great ability to discuss an influential historical figure with a historian who is writing a biography on him. Lots of insightful readings from different foreign policy crises; however reading is on the heavy side and often superfluous. This seminar relies more on student discussion than professor instruction, which seems like a bit of a missed opportunity.
