your experience in 97 is 100% determine by your professor and TF. Kelly and Marysia are great. Be careful when selecting your tutorial. They have gotten easier but if you get a bad teacher or worse TF it will ruin the class for you. Think very carefully about what genre of history you want to spend the whole semester reading and writing about or you will be bored to death.
This course isn't as bad as people say! Though it does require a ton of time to do the readings and 3 essays, revisions, and the final paper/revisions, you actually get better at writing. It definitely took up most of my time this semester, but the professor and TF will be there to help you along the way. If you can get a theme you like, then you'll be able to pull through without feeling like it was just a requirement you had to satisfy.
Although they have tried to make the course easier, it is still definitely a difficult course and is a lot more work than the average course.  Also, the revision process makes it so that you have deadlines almost every week, which is tough.  I guess you have to take the course, but it's not so bad and reasonably interesting.
It will take up all of your time, so choose other classes that have a minimal workload so that your GPA doesn't suffer. If you get into the readings instead of treating them like another assignment to plough through, they're actually really fascinating and the class discussions are incredibly stimulating. You may resent the workload, but you'll enjoy the class.
If you've heard horror stories about the trial by fire that is History 97, rest easy. The new and improved 97 is not a particularly difficult class at all - there is an above average amount of essays, but deadlines are well-spread out and readings are not overburdensome. If you find yourself in Imperial History, be prepared to interact with lots of different periods and eras on a very cursory level. By the very nature of this course (thematic history), you will be mostly focused on concepts and ideas than specifics of historical periods. This isn't to say I didn't learn anything about the Ottomans, or British India, etc. - I did. But imperial history in particular has less of a overarching, definitive narrative than, say, medical history. It's really a collection of similar but distinct historical narratives than we only get glimpses of. If you like meta-history or discussions of cultural exchange, you'll probably find this course to your liking. Prof. O'Neill is an engaging teacher. Just make sure you have a fairly competent grasp of the week's readings, or you'll probably not have much to offer in class.
This class is difficult, and honestly poorly constructed.  Would have liked to have more feedback from the professor, and not just our TF.
While 97 has its flaws, its ability to test and develop your skills with the historical method is likely unmatched by other classes at Harvard. In particular, imperial history covers vast swaths of history, from cultural to intellectual to political history, far beyond what you might expect from your initial impression of 'empire.' Empires are truly a vast umbrella and category under which a historian can explore, and if you put in effort you will get corresponding reward in both training and the pleasure of the work.
Readings are a lot of work and not necessarily related, and class discussion can get sidetracked sometimes, but you will learn a lot about how to write historically and how to read efficiently.
The readings/discussions are not that important. The key with this class is the great feedback you get on your writing. Definitely try to make the best of the feedback you get. It definitely helped me improve my writing and my general history skillzzz.
From what I've heard about the other 97 options, this is probably the best one in terms of content.  Hist 97 has undergone a major makeover in the past few years.  There is a great freedom for students to write about what interests them in the last paper, which is what the entire course builds up to.  Do not spend to much time on the readings, it is mostly about improving your writing.  Beware, some studies of empire in this class are restricted to english-speaking societies because of the language barrier.
