This is a wonderful history course! Professor Pizzorno is so enthusiastic about the subject, and the structure of assignments will enable you to independently explore and learn a ton about the ancient world. I would definitely recommend this course to History concentrators and to non-concentrators looking for a History course to pick up.
I loved this class! The material was really interesting, and the professor is amazing!
This class is a total blast. If you want to learn for the pure joy of learning, this is the class for you!
This class is fantastic. Professor Pizzorno is a great lecturer and is willing to meet with you to help plan the midterm and the final exam. The readings are really interesting for the class. The midterm essay and final project are long so don't let them sneak up on you start them early.
Take this course! Prof Pizzorno is a great lecturer, and the history he covers is really interesting. This is your chance to finally sort out all the details of the various ancient empires you have a vague idea of but never studied fully. The readings and assignments are relevant without being too much, and I particularly enjoyed how Prof Pizzorno kept the content applicable by focusing on a few key themes over time. Go to office hours and ask questions, as he is an amazing resource.
This course is fantastic. Professor Pizzorno is fantastic. You cannot go wrong with this course. It has opened my eyes to the wondrous sophistication of ancient civilizations from over 4000 years ago. I highly recommend this course to anybody, regardless of any interest in ancient history.
Take this class! It's unlikely that you've stumbled upon an Assyrian history class before!
It will make you want to change your concentration
Really great class. The assignments feel worthwhile, and you get to work with some of Harvard's really cool collection at the semitic museum. The final project gives great scope to explore history in whatever way you want. Gabe is a fantastic teacher, and so helpful.
This course is one of the most interesting courses I've taken in my life. It is so complex, so innovative, and so deep! Really, it is an awesome class!
Provides an opportunity to study material that is often overlooked in the general study of history with someone who really knows what he's talking about.
