Since there is no textbook for this class, attending lecture is important in order to learn the material.  But I think that Professor Jasanoff is one of the best lecturers I've had.
take this course if youre interested in british history, but like unconventional sources, like texts, images, and movies.
Harmless but not intricate account of British history.
If you ever had any kind of interest in learning about British history (even if it's a casual interest), its a really excellent lecture course. However, be prepared for a fair amount of reading.
Professor Jasanoff gives really great lectures and you can learn a lot from her, but there's more work than some students would expect.
It's easy and relatively painless. Don't take it if you're hoping it to be your most substantive, important class of the semester.
This is a very good introduction to the History Department at Harvard; if you are not sure of what to concentrate in or if you are considering history but have never taken a history course at Harvard. It is an excellent learning experience in professional historical lectures, readings, and writing. I have learned more about how to improve my writing in this class than I probably will in my expository writing class. Be sure to have an open mind but your own opinion as well. I was very engaged and interested in during the Professor's lectures, but there were times when I disagreed with her take on Britain's devolution. Utilize your Professor's or TF's office hours. They are very willing to help you with your writing or concerns about the course subject.
A good history of Britain, very interesting, very manageable class.
Be ready for very social history.
I didn't like it very much because I felt like (1) it was a hist-and-lit course in disguise, (2) we never covered any topic deeply enough
The material is often interesting, but it is a lot of work, and graded harshly. But most of all, it just feels very poorly run.
It was a real smile.
Once again: This class made me decide to want to concentrate in History.
Prof Jasanoff is great and the material is interesting, although it's nto a course to be taken lightly.  (That's a "yes," for you Q Guide writers).
This is a wonderful class that has a well-thought out and interesting focus. I left the class much more knowledgeable about the subject, but also wanting to learn more about the subject.
You can't really go wrong with this class - it's interesting, well-taught and you leave having learned a lot.
Don't be turned away by all of the requirements! This is a great and slightly rigorous survey class that you will enjoy AND learn important British history with attention to facts, dates, and people--things that shouldn't get overlooked by less structured "cultural history."
I wasn't expecting to like this class when I shopped it, but the first lecture grabbed my attention. The other lectures did not disappoint.
This is a good survey class if you are interested in British history, but it is a bit hard to focus in depth on any one aspect of interest with the scope of the material and limited time alloted to any area of focus.
a survey course that is lively and clear, with good use of many media and many primary sources that keeps the class interesting, also challenging with three papers, also british history is important to know about
Provides an excellent background in modern British history.  Well taught.
It's excellent! Primary source readings are enlightening, as are the lectures (Maya Jasanoff is amazing!). Be prepared for a different style of historical writing than what's normally asked for. Exams are fair, but not easy.
I found Maya Jasanoff to be a phenomenal lecturer. I came into the class having not taken a single British or even European course, but was able to keep up and stay engaged in the course. Jasanoff does an excellent job of balancing multi-media educational tools with the lectures.  Take this class. Even though the readings are somewhat long, it is okay to skim as long as you attend lecture.
This class has a lot of papers along with a midterm and final. The weekly work is substantial, and can often pile up very easily. The class lectures are really what makes this class stand out, but the weekly reading is almost unbearable to keep up with.
I would recommend that students audit this course as the texts weren't that insightful, but the lectures were superb!
The lectures are amazing (they're more like engaging stories), but make sure you have a really strong interest in British history or else you will find it a bit pointless and boring.
This course covers an enormous amount of material. You will come out of it with a detailed knowledge of Britain's history.
This course is great!
This class is a lot of fun and informative. Prof. Jasanoff's lectures are awesome, and she incorporates a lot of effective visuals and multimedia into her presentations. The readings are quite diverse and manageable each week, spanning diaries to more academic historical papers. The essays are also actually fun to write and allow much room for creativity.
You'll love the lectures and assignments and learn a lot. Very Hist&Lit heavy, but they keep it light and accessible. Not really a war and politics history class, but it's still engaging if that's your thing.
TAKE THIS CLASS!! Prof. Jasanoff is spectacular and engaging throughout lecture, the course is superbly organized, Mircea is a fantastic TF, the material is fascinating - I could not have enjoyed this class more. The three assignments are manageable and give you freedom to write about topics that interest you, and the exams are definitely fair.
This is a great course. Professor Jasanoff is an excellent lecturer, and the assignments are manageable and interesting.
This class was incredible. Prof. Jasanoff tells an excellent story with her lectures, and sections were an interesting companion to the fascinating readings we did in class.
This is a course with a great lecturer, manageable readings, and very moderate number of assignments. I think both history and non-history concentrators are likely to enjoy it.
Do the readings, you will get more out of the class, and do not miss lecture!
Jasanoff is probably the best lecturer I've had at Harvard so far. Great lectures, interesting material, and it's not too tough. If you're interested at all in British history, you should take this class.
MAYA JASANOFF IS THE BEST.  She's my favorite professor that I've had so far. Her lectures are incredible -- both engaging but also SO well organized and thought-out.
Keeping up with weekly readings is very important, this because a big advantage in paper writing and take the midterm and final exam, which all require you to use accumulated knowledge
Jasanoff is one of the most engaging and interesting history professors here at Harvard. Her lecture style is extremely engaging, and she makes the lectures and information exciting and interesting! This class is really a Hist-and-Lit geared course, so though literature may not always be discussed in class, be prepared to write on its connection to history for papers. All in all, an amazing class!
This class is amazing. The professor is knowledgeable and friendly and her lectures are not to be missed, especially for someone like me with a previously established interest in Britain. The coursework can be somewhat challenging, but the readings are interesting and the written assignments aren't overly difficult. Take this class, especially if you like history, Britain, and/or having a great professor.
Professor Jasanoff is a very passionate historian who offers a really interesting view of British History and its importance today. Fun assignments that combine literature and history - the only class problem is that there are so many assignments
Phenomenal class, Jasanoff is a teacher you MUST take at least one class from, if not more. Great class, lectures are good, section leaders are pretty cool. Basically, take this class. You will not regret it.
If you want to learn the history of Britain itself and not the British Empire, then it's worth taking this class. Professor Jasanoff is an entertaining lecturer, the readings aren't that difficult, and the papers are for the most part pretty straightforward and allow for a good deal of creativity in your interpretation of primary sources.
The course is extremely interesting, and the lectures are FANTASTIC!  I genuinely looked forward to going to lecture/class.  Admittedly, it covers a pretty long time period so you don't go much in depth to any topic, but it'll definitely get you interested.
Professor Jasanoff is a fantastic lecturer. Sections, however, were painfully dull and awkward.
This class is a very colorful and enjoyable class. If you like history you should take this class.
Professor Jasanoff is an incredible lecturer, and the material is really interesting!
This is a fine course, and great for freshman or people outside of the history department.  As a concentrator, it was a bit frustrating in its lack of depth and rigor.  But, overall fun and enjoyable.
If you're at all interested in the history of the British empire or in a case study on the rise and decline of a major global power, Professor Jasanoff presents a fascinating story over the course of a semester.
This is an excellent, engaging survey course with many opportunities to explore cultural and intellectual history.
Great course, great professor. Maya Jasanoff has a very reasonable and classical "great men" (and women) approach to history, while not leaving economic and social trends in the dark.
I absolutely loved this class and I can only say that about one other class at Harvard. Lectures were always so interesting and three essays and were very reasonable. The exams were not very difficult (though they still challenge you) and the grading is very fair.
Excellent course, however essays are graded harshly and require a lot of background reading. It can be hard to keep up during essay-writing weeks.
There's a good amount of reading. The lectures are always interesting. There is a lot of freedom to write about what interests you for the papers.
Neither the professoran excellent historian and teacher, just not a specialist in British history nor the two TFs had a solid understanding of much of the material. As a result, the course lacked any depth and both lecture and section were riddled with factual errors. The course has very little work, and getting an A/A- is not difficult, but do not expect to learn much British history at allbeyond a Wikipedia-level understanding. You will be exposed to some great literature, though.
This was the best course I have taken so far at Harvard! Maya Jasanoff is a wonderful lecturer and is very approachable.
I really enjoyed this class, the material was very interesting and the professor was engaging and thorough. The approach was very much based on the people's history which I enjoyed. I would recommend starting assignments early and getting a lot of help with them, discussing with your TF not only your assignment but their expectations in terms of grading, because at times I feel grading was harsh.
The lectures are phenomenal, the essay prompts are not.
A really great course with a magable workload and genuinely fascinating subject! And Professor Mayajasanoff is truly amazing!!!
It's a well-presented course with good instructors and interesting material. It isn't tied as well together as some history courses and there isn't a big sense of progression across the material, but it will give you some grounding in the period.
Know how to read selectively (to deal with workload), and be good at self-directing paper writing over a period of time, not procrastinating and suddenly starting it right before the deadline!
Prof Jasanoff is an incredible lecturer, and the lectures extremely engaging. Ideal for someone with NO experience of Brit Hist, or someone with a desire to learn more.
Start the essays early, but enjoy the lectures and the brilliant primary sources.
This is a wonderful, engaging, interesting class and I highly recommend it! Professor Jasanoff does an amazing job of boiling down 250 years of British history into one semester, and I feel that I came away from this class with a thorough understanding of Britain's history, as well as a desire to study Britain even further.
The lectures in this course are some of the best you'll find at Harvard--always interesting, funny, and extremely informative. Prof. Jasanoff presents the key events of British history, but never neglects the perspective of women, religious minorities, and the lower classes. No matter your experience studying history, you will come away from this class with a strong understanding of how the nation of Britain reached its current state.
Loved this course! It's my favorite class at Harvard so far. The professor really knows how to use a powerpoint and she lectures like she is telling a story. I hated the thought of ever missing this class. There are a lot of long reading assignments, so prepare for that, but the primary materials are really interesing to read and really add to the experience of the course.
This is a difficult course, but a fantastic one as well. If you have *any* interest in British history, you should definitely take it. Professor Jasanoff is a great lecturer and her focus on personalities and social history over dates and facts makes the course more dynamic.
Gives a very good overview of British history, and Professor Jasanoff is an interesting, stimulating lecturer.  Just be prepared that it is almost a Hist & Lit course in that many of the readings and all of the papers are  not really historical-based and you have to do a lot of work outside the normal class requirements.
An extremely comprehensive and fun study of the darkest side of British History that is rarely taught even in England. Lectures are fun, teachers are kind and minds are stimulated. One of the best History courses Harvard has to offer.
An extremely well taught class, with great lectures (which are both informative and engaging) that you'll very much enjoy.  It is a wonderful introduction to modern British history.
Solid class, great lectures, definitely recommend
This class is awesome because Jassanof is awesome! The lectures are really interesting and the papers are fun to write. However, section was only so-so and some of the readings for section seemed irrelevant and boring. The readings are only for section and use as secondary sources in your papers, so they aren't vital. As a result I felt like I could get by just skimming the readings, because I didn't need to have a real deep understanding of them to participate in section, write a good paper, or do well on tests. I suppose that that part of the class is whatever you make it.
