Great class, definitely worth taking, good way to fulfill the Core.
It's an interesting look at U.S. foreign policy, broadly depicted.
It was one of the most worthwhile classes I've taken at Harvard, and it's a class I wish everyone would take, as it provides the crucial background to understanding how and why the US behaves on an international scale.
I would tell them that is a very interesting class, and is not very difficult.
While it is not the most compelling course I've taken this semester, this is a well-taught course on a very interesting subject matter.
Professor Manela keeps lectures interesting and funny at times with his slideshows and ideas.
This is a great way to satisfy a history core. Definitely approachable subject matter, although the other history concentrators in the class may make discussion hard.
I highly recommend this course.  You can invest as much or as little time into it as you want, but if you choose to put effort into it you will be rewarded.
make sure to do your reading before the section.  do not put the reading off until the midterms or the finals.  the readings are very interesting and not particularly long.  This course is basically a good introductory college course.  It doesn't get too difficult, but you have to also make sure you're on top of the reading every week.
Very interesting, straight-forward. Not too hard.
If you already have studied American foreign policy in the 20th century, this course will repeat a lot of it.  Otherwise, its a good introduction.
Professor Manela is a good lecturer and the material is really interesting
Professor Manela's class is effective.  You definitely learn a lot about everything moving around in US foreign relations since 1900.  This course has made me confident in my understanding of American history on the international scene.
It's a great class. Manela's lectures are low-key and insightful, and the workload is not bad. I would recommend this for History/Gov majors and non-majors alike.
This is a very good course, for History concentrators and non-concentrators alike.  It provides a solid, stimulating, and engaging overview of American foreign relations of the last century.
Erez Manela is a great lecturer, and complete the readings
Through learning the history of the United States in the world, I have a greater understanding of current events today.
Erez Manela is a wonderful lecturer. He's nice, engaging, knows the material really well and actually makes an effort to know you. His lectures are laid back and pleasant. The course covers a general sweep of US foreign policies in the modern era. Take it if you like American FP
Interesting intro course if you're interested in American foreign relations. Not for more advanced history buffs.
This course is a great way to get caught up with why american foreign policy is what it is right now.
You'll learn a lot and Professor Manela is amazing!
This course has a lot of reading, and sometimes the assigned reading doesn't match up with the lecture.  Lecture is fun and different--you learn a lot about the 'foreign' part of foreign relations.
This is a very interesting and useful class.
Easy gen ed if you have some background in the history of international relations. Lectures are a bit slow but section is fun.
Fantastic.
This was my favorite lecture class of the semester - the lectures were highly interesting (though Professor Manela does talk very quickly). The amount of readings and papers, while not trivial, is also not too bad.
There are definitely better ways to fulfill US in the World. Lectures were not particularly engaging or insightful. I thought it would be a good way to refresh US and World History, but because there were so many gaps in the course, it wasn't particularly helpful.
This course is excellent; Professor Manela is an effective lecturer, the readings (though somewhat lengthy - about 100-150 pages a week) were appropriate and mangeable. The short papers allow for a deeper understanding of the documents and for exploration of unconvential arguments. Sections are helpful, though they can be a bit difficult to follow at times. The material is very interesting; it is worth noting this course is not simply a US history course, but explores both US foreign policy AND the view from the other (often neglected) societies of the world. I highly recommend this course; it is a great way to fulfill a Gen-ed or just learn about US foreign policy since 1900.
I learned a lot about the world and I do feel more adept at having a conversation about current foreign policy now having known where we came from.
This class is really great and interesting, but the professor can be a little bit pompous and there is a lot of information to take in.
If you enjoy international relations, then this class is for you.  Your fancy for the topic will correlate linearly to your enjoyment of the course.
There is a lot of reading but Manela is so knowledgeable and such a great lecturer that the class is worth it.
This course enables you to critically analyze foreign policy through a historical lens. If you are at all interested in U.S. history or foreign policy, I highly recommend the course. The readings are interesting and enjoyable. It's a great, painless course.
Keep up with the readings and this course will not be difficult.
This class was absolutely phenomenal. Take it! Prof. Manela is a wonderful lecturer and gives an comprehensive, interesting overview of US foreign relations from 1898 to present day. The workload is manageable and the material is very interesting. You'll come away with a more nuanced understanding of US relations with the world.
This is a good class that will definitely teach you many new things about the United States and its role in the world, and will actually help you be a better writer. Readings are easy and interesting, but the papers that are required do take some serious thought and a bit of work.
Great course as an introduction to history. It really helps if you've taken U.S. history before because some of the events overlap, of course. I really enjoyed the more global perspective the course offered, something I've missed in previous history courses. It helped a lot that I enjoyed the readings- mostly because I enjoy reading history. If that's not you, then the course would probably be not as fun.
A good American history class for anyone to take
If you want to get a good overview of American foreign policy in the 20th century, this is definitely a course to take! As a history concentrator, I found the course interesting and very thought-provoking, and it's definitely a good lecture course.
lectures, sections and topic matter is fascinating. make sure to participate in analysis in section because you'll get more out of it - definitely do the reading (it's both interesting and necessary for section). not too much work except four 1000 word papers. watch out if you're taking this as a Gen Ed though, they look for original historical thought that sometimes expects a stronger background than the history that's actually presented in the class.
Some times the readings are a lot, but they're bearable. The material and the lectures are really interesting. The TF makes or breaks the course though, so be careful. Overall, it's a good course, especially if you're interested in foreign policy
It's a very interesting subject fr anyone who likes history.
This class can be trying at times because of poor lecture style and harsh section grading, although every once in a while there are a few compelling lectures or section discussions.  Great if you just want a very general overview of US history through a 'global' lens.
This course teaches how the U.S. history integrated into the world history, and every educated citizen should learn about it. Lectures are very inspiring and very interesting; it's just like listening to stories. The readings of primary documents are helpful for writing the short essays, and the "Cambridge readings" provide a solid background knowledge about this entire period of history. I really like the fact that it did not just focus on the U.S. history. Also, I would recommend try to prepare one question if you can before every lecture.
The lectures by professor Manela are relaxed and very insightful, the section leaders are talented and fair in grading, and the material is intriguing - a near-perfect Harvard course. Although history concentrators might find it a bit dull
Excellent course. Manela is a great lecturer, very organized.
This class was wonderful! I found the reading so interesting, and the flexibility of the weeks in which you can submit the papers are a life saver! A great and easy class that everyone should definitely take to learn the basics about the United States and foreign policy from the 1890s until today!
The lectures are not engaging enough, but after you study for an exam you feel like you have a good understanding of the material.
Nice easy course with interesting readings. Manela's lectures seem to be in stream of conscious and don't follow the slides very well, so be prepared to listen.
This is a really interesting course about a period of history on which every educated person should have a good grasp. Professor Manela, though not particularly charismatic/energetic, is engaging and provides interesting perspectives on these events in history which have been analyzed so many times over. Definitely low workload -- the 4 papers take thought but are basically extended reading responses. A great gen ed or elective for someone who's interested in history and politics!
History 1465 is extremely interesting and attracts students from all different concentrations, which makes for lively discussions.
Don't get steffen rimner as your TF
The lectures are not overly inspiring. The class was not difficult, even for a science concentrator taking this as a gen-ed. Section was awkward at times because it didn't seem like anyone did the readings.
A wonderful way to complete a Gen Ed is you like history. The readings are adequate, the primary source readings and essays are the best, the others not so much. Professor Manela is a clear and concise lecturer, ties in movies, music and pictures into his classes, which is interesting. I really enjoyed this class.
This has easily been one of my favorite courses at Harvard.  In presents the U.S. in a new way, one that you probably did not get in your high school American history class.  To top it off, Professor Manela and his team of TFs are outstanding.
This is a good course for people interested in US history and foreign policy. The lectures can be very interesting but sometimes are dull. Doing all the readings makes the course much more meaningful. In general the course is not too hard and is pretty interesting. Make sure you pay attention in lecture because Manela highlights specific things you won't find in the readings and these end up on the exams.
Not too hard, learn a lot.
The midterm was graded harshly--- even if you thought you had said everything necessary about a particular term, you wouldn't get full points. Be prepared for that. Be prepared to memorize dates and events for the IDs.
This class is great if you're interested in U.S. foreign policy. If you're looking for a basic U.S. history course, this course is more in the realm of world history than U.S. history, but it does both on a preliminary level.
Great overview of US twentieth century history.  Graduates should audit for interest only.  Sections are pointless for grads.
This is a great introductory class to American foreign relations, but it is more a Gen Ed than a history class. The first half of the course (1890s-WW2) is very interesting, and Prof Manela knows a great deal about that period. But the second half is not as good and a lot of big events like Korea, Cuban Missile Crisis and Vietnam are treated superficially. Good 3rd or 4th class to take as it does not require that much work.
I highly recommend this course. Be prepared to work hard and learn to think and write critically as historians. Also, GO TO OFFICE HOURS. Professor Manela is incredibly caring--he doesn't just care about your questions--he cares about YOU. Be persistent with the paper assignments and talk to your TF so you can improve throughout the course.
professor manzellas lectures are just ok. my TF was great. but they DONT give study guides for the exams. neither the midterm or final u receive any type of study guide for.. in a history class. u do 4 papers for the semester which aren't terrible the information is typical U.S. in the World since 1900, pretty straight forward.
Readings are great, but lecture and section often feel like round 2 of APUSH.
A very interesting class that reveals a lot about US and European policy making throughout the 20th century. The use of primary sources gave a really interesting perspective. This is history that everyone ought to know, and this class is great for that purpose. A fairly nice way to get rid of the US in the world genEd.
This is one of the most relevant courses I've taken at Harvard. It's a great class for history majors AND those who don't normally study history because of the subject matter, and Manela and the TFs make the course very interesting!
This is an interesting course, although will cover much of the same if you have already done US history. Lectures are a bit slow paced, but interesting,
The material is interesting and the class covers a lot of major issues, but prof Manela is not the best lecturer, there are more exciting 20th century history courses out there.
Great class. If you pay attention in lecture and do the readings it's really easy
This is a great class. Probably one of the more useful classes I have taken here at Harvard. It is not much work and the Prof. Manela gives great lectures.
This is a survey class, so if you have taken american history in high school or at all before, it repeats a lot of the same information. That can make the course easier, since you can just focus on the primary documents and discussions, but it can also make it boring. I would encourage freshman to take expos before taking it, or at least know what they're getting into with 4 papers due that are very typical; "respond to the readings in 1200 words" but can seem too open a question for someone coming from a more structured writing background. overall not too hard, not too easy, not breath-takingly exciting, not entirely bland.
Very superficial understanding of a broad topic. The class has so much potential but the lectures are boring and the information seems disjointed. There is no story or real flow of the classes. Also, the grading system is really awful.
This course was pretty easy. In many ways, I was able to coast on things I learned in high school, without going any deeper into the material. It was not very rigorous, and in that respect, I was fairly disappointed.
there is so much reading. split it up with other students or you will definitely not get it done!
A great history class - very painless. This is information you should know, too. Not a lot of work.
Prof. Manela is a good lecturer, and you will enjoy going to class. You're basically on your own for the four short essays you'll write, but exams are straightforward. If you like international relations, it's a good fit for you.
It's a lot of fun and really interesting.
Excellent course. Prof. Manela explains the material clearly, and the readings are manageable.
Lectures were sometimes interesting, sometimes random.
This class offers a very unique of history since 1900, because it combines American history with international history. It focuses entirely on America's role on the world stage, taking note of both events within America and the larger world that impact this role. The readings and lectures are especially informative and well-organized in helping one to understanding this role and how it changed.
Great class if you like the subject
This course got pretty good reviews, and I expected a lot from it. It was pretty disappointing overall though, and I found that the material was very rushed towards the end of the course. The assignments were not well defined enough, and even though the reading material was fairly engaging, there was a lot of it, which made it difficult to get through the material. I had hoped for a better structured and organized class, but the earlier lectures were quite good.
Prof. Manela is a decent lecturer, especially in his use of video.  The lectures won't keep you on the edge of your seat, but they're worth going to.  It's pretty easy and straightforward.
You'll learn a lot of really relevant material in this class and you'll be glad you took it. The exams are pretty straightforward, but you should pay attention in lecture and take good notes. There are 4 papers though (4-5 pages) which are reading responses but you have to have a thesis. These are manageable though. I thought this class was fun!
It is very different from high school history classes, but it is a great class. Viewing US history through a world lens will make you think deeper about what you have been taught before. It is good class especially if you are interested in history.
The content was quite interesting, but the workload was a bit heavy.
International approach to American political actions.
This class is pretty easy and a good overview of American foreign policy. Everyone should take this class, especially if you ever want to have any credibility when you talk politics.
This is a good class to fulfill the us in the world credit for gen ed. I also found it to be very helpful in my practice of analytical writing.
this is a great introductory class to U.S. history and foreign policy. the class is clearly structured and the professor - Erez Manela - is phenomenal!
The course material spans a long time period, so topics are not addressed in very much depth.  Also, make sure to clarify the paper requirements with your TF as no direction will be given in lecture.
take this class if you don't mind doing a lot of reading, but if you do the reading, you will be completely fine!
This class is valuable because it provides a grounding in American foreign policy and history.  Overall, the readings are interesting and you don't need to read them all to do well.  The paper assignments are fair and you get to decide when to write them --- 2 before the midterm and 2 before the final, yet they are completely unstructured reading responses. Professor Manela is very thoughtful; however, the lectures are somewhat unstructured and it is primarily an upperclassmen course which presents a disadvantage for freshmen in terms of the papers, the exams and section.  Overall, I enjoyed many parts of the course -- I regret taking it as a first semester freshmen (with Gov 20) --- but I would recommend it to someone interested in American foreign policy with the above reservations.
This class is very manageable and the material is valuable no matter what your concentration or interests. However, it is necessary to do the readings on your own because they are not addressed in lecture, however, they are 100% fair game for the final. So if you don't plan on reading, don't take this course.
The class is very interesting, but your section/TF matters more than anything else. Also, very little effort is made to incorporate the secondary readings into the weekly lectures/discussions.
Professor Manela is amazing and the information covered is essential for any college student!
This class was the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. You need to take this class. You come out of it with a more informed mind and a better citizen. Professor Manela and the teaching staff are tremendously wonderful. Having taken a history course in college, or a gov course would be very helpful in this class. If not, you may have a rough start, especially in the papers, but it's possible to learn the trade and improve provided you put in a lot of effort. But the effort is definitely worth it. Take this class.
This class is not the most rigorous look into US foreign policy of the 20th century, but it does provide a a good base in recent US foreign policy history, which is essential to understanding the policies of today. It certainly is possible to get a solid grade in this class without engaging too heavily, but the extent of the base of knowledge you acquire really depends on how much you engage in the readings and assignments.
