It's amazing how much you can learn and analyze about 20th and 21st Century American politics through the lens of the New Deal. This is a fascinating topic. Brett will make you a better reader, writer, and thinker, even if being a historian is not your ultimate aspiration. If you do take this class, take advantage of office hours with Brett; he is always happy to continue conversations started in class, or help you form a final paper that you actually enjoy writing.
Difficult; no sense of how to approach final paper.
This class adds depth to anyone's understanding of the New Deal and how it has been interpreted. Class discussions were always stimulating without a dull moment. The one and only negative-the class sometimes lacked in organization.
It's the liberal arts college experience at a large university.
This is an awesome class. Both Brett and Summer are great at leading discussions and providing feedback on your work. It's a lot of reading but if you're interest din the time period you will not find it boring.
Brett and Summer are a great teaching team and the class is demanding but rewarding.
This is a great class if you're interested in the economic and political history of the New Deal, but it's definitely not a survey course of everything going on during the 1930s. However, if this is a subject matter that interests you, or if you want to learn about one of the most important transformations in the American political system and economic system, this class is excellent.
This course is a really excellent way to get a broad range of knowledge about themes of the 20th century through a focused look at one era. Brett and Summer are an amazing teaching team and you should absolutely take a class with them before graduating. All of the assignments wind up surprising you with how much they add to your overall knowledge.
Make sure you can devote yourself to readings and assignments, find what you'd like to share in class.
This is a challenging but very interesting course that will both enhance and complicate your understanding of the New Deal.
Great class to prepare for a thesis.  Great feedback on assignments and writng.
There was a lot of reading for this course, which often wasn't discussed in class. The teaching staff was very involved and always willing to meet and provide feedback on assignments or to answer questions. The course often felt somewhat disorganized, but discussion in class was always productive.
If you have not taken a course with Brett Flehinger, you should. His dedication to his students' learning has been unsurpassed at Harvard in my experience. He facilitates discussion well and takes immense pleasure out of having his students dispute what he says. He really makes you think, and makes you feel free to disagree and contribute your ideas.
This was overall a great class! Brett and Ella make the research paper at the end of the term super manageable. Do be aware that there are 200-300 pages of reading each week, though.
This has been one of the most incredible classes I have taken at Harvard. Brett is an amazing instructor and has a unique capacity to communicate complex ideas in simple terms. The topics covered are also super interesting. Would highly recommend for anyone who is willing to put in the time
This is a great class with really interesting readings a discussions, but it can be quite logistically disorganized.
This course takes apart the act of writing history into all its constituent parts, turns them around, and puts the whole thing back together again.  It can be interesting; it can be repetitive.  In terms of content, you'll learn about 30% of what, by the end of the course, you realize you could have learned in a course about the New Deal, but to be fair the New Deal is a very slapdash operation and pretty difficult to study.  The best part of this class is the individual attention to your research and writing from the teaching staff.  I took this for concentration credit, and that's about right.  I don't think I'd have been happy with it as an elective.
This seminar is a fantastic deep-dive into the history of the New Deal, and is accessible to people who are not in the history department. The readings and in-class discussions are interesting, and both Brett and Ella are genuinely concerned about whether you are getting a lot out of the class. As is often the case with Brett, I love him, but sometimes he gets behind on the course logistics. Be prepared for that. But otherwise, the final research paper is very rewarding, and both Brett and Ella offered a lot of help along the way. This course is a gem.
The class was really interesting and the material was engaging. It is a LOT of reading, so do not take this class on top of another seminar. Additionally, it is hard to know what your grade will be before the end of the class.
This class is great if you want to really improve your process of historical writing/analyzing historical argumentsit is not a class on the history of the New Deal. Brett is an incredible professor who cares so much about his students, and it is a pleasure to work with him.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard. You are seriously doing something wrong if you do not take a class with Brett. He is one of the best educators that I have had at Harvard. The amount of time that he spends with you, thinking through your ideas, and challenging your thought process is reason alone to take this class. It is, for the first part, historiography - which some people may not enjoy, but if you like thinking about the different interpretations of the New Deal, this class is most certainly for you!
Engaging course that will prepare you to think and write about complex historical ideas.
I absolutely loved this course! If you are interested in the New Deal and writing a paper on whatever facet of the New Deal you are interested in, this is the course for you. The discussion was engaging and the course material was fascinating
