If you're able to work with Japanese-language original sources, this is a very good course -- probably the best course I've taken at Harvard.  Professor Gordon is a very generous supervisor, and his generosity is catchy. This is also a very good course for procrastinators, since the numerous draft deadlines force you to get things on paper.  Finally, a great deal of time is spent reading and commenting on the work of others, which is good for developing a sense of scholarship as a communal effort.
Although my experience has been consistently positive, one imagines that the quality of feedback will vary depending on the interests of other enrolled students.
If you want to write/study anything about modern Japanese history and its related fields, a must-take. Otherwise, you are ignoring a huge part of the education opportunity waiting for you.
This course is a great way to structure research which gives you time to not only undertake a serious project but receive critiques and advice from one's peers and Professor Gordon.
This course is a very well structured and is a great way to write a research paper.
great tool for those wishing to develop a major paper or article
Everybody doing graduate work in Japanese history MUST take this course, ideally more than once.  It could be the most valuable course you take at Harvard.  Both Professor Gordon and Miller are talented and generous teachers.
Essential for anyone working in Japanese history; a great way to get feedback and practice in writing long essays.
A strength of this course is that students can focus on learning how to write a paper. In many seminars, writing skills might not necessarily be developed due to a lot of readings. However, this course devotes all the time to develop writing skills.
It's a lot of work, but very helpful one's paper writing efforts.
If you struggle with motivation when doing research, and find that all your papers pile up right at the end of each term, then this course is for you.  It will prod you into doing a significant amount of research during the semester, and weeks before the semester's end, you'll already have a working draft of a major research paper completed.  Anyone who, like me, has difficulty taking on research projects amidst the day-to-day coursework of the semester will benefit immensely from this course.
Absolutly neccesary for everyone specializing in modern Japan.
Everything said in the "Strengths" section.
If are contemplating writing a paper with Japanese-language primary sources, this course is a must.  Do no, however, take this course without a firm idea in advance of your potential topic.
Professor Gordon is awesome. He was always kind and provided useful feedback while respecting students.
If you have a research project you want to develop and read Japanese well, this class is for you. Professor Gordon is an old hand at this, and knows how to get students to produce the best work.
This is the most comfortable graduate seminars I have ever attended at Harvard.
