If you have an interest in Japan or in 20th-century history more generally, this is a great course to take. I think the course's focus on labor & economic issues in particular does a great job debunking some of the vague stereotypes many Americans probably hold about the Japanese "mindset."
The material is very interesting, and the workload is manageable.
This class is great!  If you have any interest in Japan at all, I highly recommend this class.  The class does an excellent job of providing detailed information while simultaneously not losing track of larger themes.  Lectures are entertaining and well put-together, and are complimented by a variety of surprisingly interesting readings.  One of the readings in particular, a compilation of oral histories of World War II, were quite moving (and felt a bit like watching Grave of the Fireflies over and over again).
It's a great class -- interesting and exciting, doesn't shy away from thorny issues, and never dull.  It's not your standard history date-filled lecture.
A very strong introduction to the past 125 years of Japanese history. Some points of focus include economic history, labor history and gender history.  Professor Gordon makes really effective use of images in his lectures. This course would be useful even if you're not very interested in Japan, since Professor Gordon approaches the material though the lens of global history--that is, he examines events that occurred without respect to nation-state boundaries, and also looks at Japan as one example of global trends.
This is a wonderful introductory class with a brilliant professor.
If you have a little bit of experience with historical writing and research, and a serious interest in learning about Japanese history (even if you know next to nothing about it), take this class.  One of the best I've taken here.  Professor Gordon is, in addition to being an authority in the field, an incredible lecturer and an extremely approachable person.  Though there is a lot of reading, it is mostly very interesting.  You have a lot of intellectual freedom to explore interesting questions in this class and will get out what you put in.
It's a little bit demanding, but worth it.
it's a lot of reading but all very interesting to study and the requirements are fair
It's a very manageable class regardless of your background, but I would only recommend it to people who have an interest in Japan.
Professor Gordon is really nice, a good lecturer. If you want to know why Japan is the way it is now, this class is excellent.
A must-take for any students interested in Japan. Will not be disappointed. Professor Gordon is a superb scholar & teacher.
Prof Gordon is a fantastic lecturer and section leader, making this class one of the best I have taken at Harvard. Definitely the highlight of my semester.
Professor could be more engaging, but the subject matter is interesting.
