One of my favorite classes, workload is light and the subject matter is extremely interesting.
The films are interesting for many reasons, but not necessarily enjoyable to watch.
This is a nice way to fulfill your history research seminar. The movies are great and Professor Kafadar is passionate about the material and very knowledgeable.
Because you can direct class discussion, make sure you limit the BS everybody dishes out. Though the subjects invite it, only you can fight bs.
This is a great class with one of the most learned and interesting professors at Harvard.
The class is not a very well defined history course. However, as a film studies course it does a great job of recognizing the importance of the historical context in which the film was created and of analyzing historical accuracy of the films themselves
The films are very esoteric. If you do not like art house films, that will make it difficult. It is also a lot of work because most movies are at least 2 hours long, and you have about 200 pages of a reading a week, so lots of time to feel prepared. Also make sure you like the other people who are taking it, because I ended up resenting most of the seminar by the end, with the exception of Akif and Prof. Kafadar. Final paper requires a lot of time, don't leave to the very end. Would be nice if there were a little more structure.
TAKE THIS COURSE! Professor Kafadar is immensely easy to talk to and intellectually sharp. The films are great and largely movies that should be watched at some point in one's life. Readings and response papers are largely painless, but still engaging. Discussions are multifaceted and tend to follow student interest in the material. 
Be sure to start thinking about possible topics for the long paper early;so long as you like history and film (why else would you take the class?), writing it will be immensely enjoyable as you choose your own topic
You get to watch movies for a semester and learn why they might be the best way to present history! Definitely take this course if you get a chance.
This did an excellent job of developing ideas and discussion around history, what makes history, and if we can consider modern film depictions of a historical past as valid lenses into it.  If you're interested in films (especially mid to late 20th century ones) and/or history this is a fantastic course to take.  Kafadar does an excellent job of facilitating discussion and it was a very intellectually stimulating seminar.
I enjoyed this course so much! It was a lot of fun to watch amazing movies about history, read about them, and then discuss them in class. The professor, the TF, and the course program are all absolutely wonderful, and I strongly recommend everyone to take this class.
At first glance, the two topics of the seminar--film and medieval history--seem to be inherently at odds with one another, but Professor Kafadar does a marvelous job of intertwining the two. This is a deep-thinking course. It asks you to challenge not just the films or our representations of the past, but also the discipline of history itself. The result is a serious of fast-paced, and at times heated, debates about everything form the peasant life to the use of light in the same film. That said, the research paper is very much an independent endeavor, and there is not a lot of writing or research support built into the course, which can present quite a challenge at the end.
Take this course if you love watching movies for homework! The films chosen may be old, silent, and colorless, but their plots and theme will draw you in nonetheless. As someone who is interested in filmmaking, the discussions tailored to historical accuracy were illuminating in that they showed how film and research can come together or fall apart. The assignments are simple response papers, and it's a joy debating the films with the charismatic Professor Kafadar.
Professor Kafadar is a star in his field and with much wisdom.  I enjoyed every moment of this class.  If you have any reservations, go to one class and soak in the knowledge.  I have grown so much from this class.
This is a class where you will really expand your culture about cinema (view some great classic movies) as well as some specific historical periods, and have very interesting discussions.
There's not much discussion of history/historical fact, but it is a very good introduction to film criticism.  It's also not much work - a short response paper every week and a long final paper.
Great class! Definitely enroll if you have the time.
This is a great way to fulfill the Research Seminar requirement for history concentrators - not too tough and very enjoyable.
This professor is amazing and the topic is so relevant and fun.
Very enjoyable course dealing with film as historical narrative.  Does not engage extensively with the actual Medieval period.
A fantastic course, and a great way to get your research seminar requirement out of the way.
