This course made a very compelling case to study 19th-century Egypt. While I went into the class wondering if the sub-topics (law, medicine, justice) would be overly technical, I was convinced that these are of critical importance and we should all drop what we're doing to study them. In other words, this was a really effective course. I took more away from these two hours than much of the rest of my week combined.
This was the best graduate course I have taken in my two years. Professor Khaled Fahmy designed a tight, cohesive syllabus organized around three themes - law, medicine and torture - situated in 19th century Egypt. His fair, calm and experienced control of the class discussion created a very healthy and safe atmosphere, in which everybody's responses are respected and valued. This is a very important quality that professors should have, as many people come into graduate seminars from a variety of backgrounds and at different stages in their lives. Weaker responses do not indicate a weak student -- most memorably for me was when the only undergraduate in our graduate seminar gives her responses, and was afraid that she didn't make sense, and Professor Fahmy said encouragingly, you make total sense, I am following you. When he does not follow a student's response, however, he will request the student to repeat herself in a very humble way. This gives the student a chance to rearticulate her point, and also indicates that Professor Fahmy is sincerely and genuinely following every student's argument (not all professors can be bothered). Very few professors of his stature also possess such consideration and kindness to students. In addition, his insights into the material are also extremely edifying. This course gave me intellectual satisfaction enough for this whole semester. My only regret is that I will not be able to take courses with him anymore.
Taking a class with Professor Fahmy is really a special opportunity. Besides the content of the seminar, which is extremely fascinating in its own right, you learn so much about approaches to scholarship (particularly in the Middle Eastern Studies field) and how to think about research and writing. Professor Fahmy is not afraid to share many of his valuable personal insights with his students, from his research processes to the application of scholarship to activism. The impression that you leave with is that he is truly a serious scholar, in the best way possible. Definitely take a course with him if you can! Better yet, take a seminar so you'll have more chance to converse with him.
