Do the assignments and listen to the CDs every day.  It really makes a difference.
For those with an interest in Vietnamese language and culture, this is a terrific course. Language instruction is woven around discussions of Vietnamese food, literature, and politics. It is quite intellectually challenging, especially for those who are non-native speakers.
Strict but great teacher for Vietnamese foundations.
Good course overall. Definitely harder than Vietnamese Ba. Don't slack off and expect the same workload from last semester. Professor can be subjective. Try to get on his good side.
This class is a very fun and interesting class. Not only will learn introductory vietnamese speaking and writing skills, professor Binh also goes in depth on certain aspects of Vietnamese culture. Even though this class was at 9am everyday, I felt excited to go to class. If you spend the time to do the work, then this class should be an easy and fun class. I highly recommend taking this class if you have any interest in the Vietnamese language.
It's early in the morning, and not the most stimulating class.  However, you do learn a lot and the amount of improvement in your Vietnamese after a semester is remarkable!  All of your skills -- reading, speaking, writing, and listening -- are touched upon.
Like in all other language courses, stay on top of the vocab.
Be prepared to dedicate a very large amount of time to this class. If you're serious about acquiring the Vietnamese language, you must dedicate a great amount of time to the class. This course also goes very quickly. Do not fall behind.
Exactly where to start...Firstly, I definitely don't recommend this course. For native speakers who are interested in improving their reading and writing, this course will do that. However, the course progresses extremely slowly so you will be spending most of your time questioning why you even chose to take this class five days a week, 9am every morning. And just an FYI, a lot of the language you learn and use in class is not used by normal Vietnamese people, but by the grammar police. Let's not even get started with the grammar...About the Professor:During lecture, the professor expects all his students to be perfect language speakers, even though this is an introductory course. Your performance in the class (and likely your mood for the rest of certain mornings) will be dependent on his mood and basically how much he likes you. About 33% of the time, the professor will be moody and uptight. During these times, instead of correcting you for making a mistake, he will completely dismiss you and move on to another classmate. All in all, it doesn't feel fun learning the language as much as it feels like stitches are holding your lips down to prevent you from making the next little mistake. And believe me, he will find those mistakes.I could probably write a ten page paper about this, but point being: don't take this class.
The class is a continuation of Vietnamese Ba, so it is overall similar in structure to first-semester Vietnamese, but there is slightly harder vocabulary and grammar patterns to learn.
You learn a LOT and it perfectly supplements what you had learned before in Vietnamese Ba. It is harder but that is understandable as you actually have a huge repertoire of grammar and vocabulary at your disposal after one semester of Vietnamese.
Ideally, you wouldn't need to have any experience with Vietnamese to enter Vietnamese Ba/Bb. However, because most students have Vietnamese backgrounds and picked some Vietnamese up at home, it tends to be much more difficult for students with no Vietnamese language experience.
In this class you will see yourself grow tremendously. This is a small class that allows the professor to connect to you on an individual level.
I found the class difficult despite being a Vietnamese speaker only because I had to fix many informal speech habits I've developed over the year. However, if you've never been exposed to Vietnamese before, you should definitely take this class because, in my personal opinion, the classmates I had who didn't know Vietnamese before excelled more quickly and easily. Taking this class also gave me great insight into the Chinese and French language because 70% of Vietnamese words derive from Chinese characters and the other 30% from the French or other European countries. Take this class! It has a lot of interesting things you wouldn't expect to know otherwise.
The course is more difficult than Vietnamese Ba but still fun and relevant.
I would tell students to take this class!  If you have any interest in learning Vietnamese, I think it's definitely worthwhile.  First, thay is an amazing teacher and you'll learn a lot.  Second, the class is small and meets every day, so, especially if you're a freshman, it's nice to have that small group of people that are constant.  Third (this doesn't have too much to do with the class itself), because the class meets so early, it can be a pain (especially in the winter and when it rains), but it's nice to start your day off early.
The class is more than just a language class, you are exposed to the culture and history of Vietnam as well. The section component is the strongest aspect to this class, one truly gets to learn in a very intimate and rewarding section.
Thay Binh is an amazing teacher.  I have never met anyone who has cared so much about his students and their success learning.  He knows the material intimately and is very understanding and helpful.  I highly recommend taking this course.
The professor is incredibly dedicated to helping his students succeed and gives each student much attention and help. The class moves at a very reasonable pace and offers a lot of practice for each grammatical construction learned. This class is a good way to get a solid foundation in Vietnamese, and the professor is incredibly understanding, doing his best to accommodate each student. Furthermore, he tries to keep the workload very manageable, so the class overall is very reasonable for students.
Vietnamese BB is much difficult than BA, but you will learn a lot.
