The class is small. Remember you can't get away with anything when you decide to take this class. Also, you should be willing to learn the culture, history, and social issues in Vietnam - as Thay Binh WILL take detours to cover that in addition to the language (and will assign homework on that). Enjoyable, and useful, but that means the language experience is not as intense or tightly taught as say... Chinese (which continues to rein as basically the most brilliantly constructed set of language courses Harvard teaches, with a teachers second to none. Vietnamese language courses hee are not THAT good, but in general pretty good.
Vietnamese 130a essentially picks up where you left off in 120b. The chapters in the textbook remain consistent in structure but the narratives and vocab do progressively become a bit harder. Because of the small class size though, you get individualized help along the way, and you also have class time to learn more about Vietnamese culture and history.
Take it! Thay Bind is an incredibly knowledgable, dedicated and friendly instructor. The small class size allows for lots of individual attention. It depends on how much work you put into the course and what you expect in return, but I found the semester very satisfying. I learned tons about not only the language, but also culture and history of Vietnam, and I look forward to taking 130b.
Vietnamese 130 is a small and intimate class, but that's the fun of it--you learn some much in a small class setting and become good friends with your classmates and professor. We had lots of jokes in this class, and we learned so much about the language and its history, about Vietnam, and about each other's family. Take this class. It's a haven from the other hectic classes at Harvard. That is not to say it's easy; the grammar may not be too bad but the vocabulary and readings are quite difficult.
It's a really fun class.
This class is more than a language course.  I remember this class to anyone who is interested in learning more about Vietnam!
This is an excellent class.  The professor is patient, precise, and very helpful in guiding students through the material whether it be grammar, history, or culture.
