Take this course. Professor Ngo makes an effort to tailor his instruction to every student, and it really shows. If you're Vietnamese American, this course will really improve your grammar, pronunciation, and vocabulary. If you're not Vietnamese American, this is an awesome opportunity to learn a critical language in a fun and engaging way.
If you want to learn Vietnamese, definitely take this course. We learned so much more than just the language, and the professor is very knowledgeable about all aspects of Vietnam. However, to enjoy this course, you must be really committed to learning the language and work hard.
The subject itself is very interesting, and the readings we receive are a trove of knowledge for both culture and history of Vietnam. Professor Binh adds a lot of very interesting and insightful anecdotes and lessons alongside these readings, and it's clear that he's deeply knowledgable about Vietnamese language, history and culture. However, it's extremely difficult to speak out in class sometimes, because sometimes he snaps for no reason, and on other days, he's perfectly accommodating. It's hard to tell when I'm going to be frowned upon greatly for not knowing something and when he'll breeze onward and tell me what I'm missing. It's very unpredictable, and there were many times I felt highly uncomfortable speaking out in class because I was unsure if he'd sigh, take off his glasses, and give me this look that described how much of a huge disappointment I was for getting something wrong. Oftentimes, I felt it was either I needed to know for sure or not speak at all and run the risk of being wrongand that is not the type of mood that should be facilitated in a learning environment, especially one regarding a new language.
It is an invaluable experience to have the opportunity to study with Dr. Ngo. You should definitely take this class if you are interested in learning Vietnamese. I studied in Vietnam and never learned material as in-depth or understood it to the level I have with Dr. Ngo.
This semester, in addition to the grammar and vocab, we were also able to learn a lot about Vietnam's culture, geography, and history. Class was pretty fun overall, and I think we went through the lessons at a comfortable pace. Also, helpful tip: be sure to keep a list of all the new words you learn because they can pile up pretty quickly.
I really enjoyed this class.  It's a nice opportunity to study an interesting subject in a smaller class with a professor who is really enthusiastic and great about teaching.  Work-wise, it's quite manageable, but it can get a bit busy around test-time.  The two-hour class period can sometimes feel a bit long, but for the most part, I found the time passed very nicely because the material was enjoyable and engaging.
The class is small but we have a lot of fun. Often we speak about life in Vietnam as it is now, and talk about food and exports and such. We also talk about history in this class. The class is much more difficult than first year Vietnamese so it is kind of hard to place into this course and not take the previous year.
This is a much more difficult class than last year, but my vocabulary and grammar has expanded greatly. It's wonderful, and the small classroom setting makes the teaching more personal.
We learned vietnamese cultural traditions and customs  as well as the written grammar which made every class is fun. Besides the material, professor Binh is extremely nice and makes sure you are understanding the material. I definitely recommend taking this course!!
This is the best Vietnamese language class that you are likely to find in the eastern US. Take advantage of the opportunity if you are able!
