This class offers a unique experience of a small class with in-depth discussion on Vietnamese history and literature.
This course not only teaches you the proper language skills, but also the Vietnamese culture and history.  I would recommend this class to anyone who is interested in learning more about not only the Vietnamese language, but also anything Vietnamese from culture, history, to current events.
Class is generally low-stress and the material is interesting. And if you ever have any questions or are struggling with anything, the professor is always more than willing to help. Also, most of the assignments are essay-based so you'll have the chance to work on your writing.
If you have already taken elementary and intermediate Vietnamese, than you already know how amazing Thay Binh is and don't need much convincing on that front. I felt that this course was less about the language itself and more about understanding the history and culture of Vietnam. As someone has always wanted to learn more about her homeland, but never really had the time or incentive to do it, taking this course was a major blessing. What you get out of it definitely depends on what you put into it. If you only want a relaxed, low-key class as an elective, this course can be it. But if you want to learn more about Vietnam, further refining your Vietnamese as well as your perspective on the country both in the past and present, then all you have to do is put in the work and Thay Binh will be there to guide you along the way.
Vietnamese 130 is definitely harder than the previous Vietnamese classes, but it's a small and fun class and you get to personally interact with Professor Binh. Furthermore, you learn so much without knowing it; by the end of the year, you're writing essays on the history of Vietnamese literature and analysing short stories and modern poetries. It's such a fun and rewarding class; I'm very grateful for all I've learned and the personal attention I've gotten. Thay Binh truly puts in tons of efforts to help you grow.
