If you're Vietnamese or are interested in Vietnamese culture, you'd be a fool for not signing up for a class with Professor Binh. He is an amazing and compassionate lecturer and will expose you to the many hidden facets of Vietnam's rich and beautiful history.
This course is not only a language course, but a course about anything that is Vietnamese.  I have learned about Vietnamese culture and history.  I have learned more about myself in this course than any courses I have taken at Harvard.
Take it!  Easily one of my favorite classes here and Thay Binh is awesome and really cares for his students!  He has inspired me in so many ways to know more about my culture and where my parents are from.  Even if I was not Vietnamese though, Thay Binh will make you fall in love with the country.
To non-native Vietnamese speakers out there - don't slack off in Vietnamese Ba, Bb or 120a.  Ever!To native Vietnamese speakers - be ready to have the grammar and spelling you may have learned at home turned upside down at times.  This course strives for correctness at every level, and often times Vietnamese is highly colloquial in this country, likely because many native speakers here didn't attend formal schooling in the language.
The teacher is strict but is effective for pushing grammar and vocabulary acquisition.
Professor Binh is one of the best; don't leave Harvard without learning from him!
Small, intimate setting with lots of individual attention. Thay Binh cares very much for the success of his students and is willing to be very flexible with assignments so that you are not too stressed. As long as you make an effort, this class will be very rewarding.
In addition to grammar and vocabulary, this semester, we also got to learn a lot about Vietnamese culture, such as the origin of the ao dai and Vietnamese traditional theater, which I thought was very interesting. The discussions we had in class were also very rewarding.
A great way to expand your knowledge of Vietnamese, especially if you grew up in a native-speaking household but never picked it up yourself. I wanted to learn about my culture too, and the course teaches you that alongside the language. Be aware that the professor will speak in the Hanoi/northern accent, but he is absolutely fine if you use your regional accent. He is a very strong proponent of Standard Vietnamese and when you get your corrected work it will show this. In spite of all this, Thay Binh is very, very nice and it shows in everything he does.
If you're interested in taking Vietnamese, or any language, take this course! You've got to put in the work, but the course and the textbook is designed really well, and the professor is willing to meet you where you are/focus on your individual needs.
