We learned a tremendous amount of Vietnamese in a very short time.
It is a good course to balance off a heavy workload, as Professor Ngo tries his best to accommodate the students. Though the class is pretty early in the morning, he goes at a good, slow pace for beginning Vietnamese speakers, and offers a lot of feedback and individual attention to best help students. He makes sure not to assign too much homework, and the homework offers much practice for students to solidify what they had learned in class without taking too much time.
This course challenges you and broadens your horizons.
If you are very good at picking up languages, take it.
Be prepared for a great but challenging class for learning a useful language. This class is definitely not the easiest, but the professor really cares about help you understand the language deeply from a linguistics point of view. You will learn how to pronounce complicated Vietnamese sounds as well as make useful phrases and sentences. However, be prepared for quite some work and the 9AM trek every day. Also, I don't recommend taking this class as a 5th class.
Take this course if you are strongly interested in learning vietanmese language and its culture. But do know that it is not an easy class, you probably need to spend around 7-8 hours a week for this course and the class time might be quite demanding. Also, the classroom environment can be quite different from other classes.
Easier (but just as useful!) east Asian language than Chinese due to phonetic alphabet. Small class and you learn Vietnamese faster than you think. But, it's a language class and the best way to learn a language is in that country, not in a class, though it is a much more formal way of learning and you learn things that you can't learn on the street.
Heritage learners have an advantage (and I would argue most people taking Vietnamese have Vietnamese heritage regardless of the level of exposure), but regardless of your supposed advantages or disadvantages, there is still a decently sized workload.
Class was very enjoyable. I had no experience with writing or reading in Vietnamese before taking this class, but I've improved a lot in these areas, and can speak Vietnamese more properly as well.
It's a good class for learning the basics of Vietnamese, and really often a lot of fun. The professor is very thorough and good about helping students, including and especially students who haven't had exposure to the language before. Be warned though that if you are a night owl or a person who has ever struggled with 9am starts (and class is in Vanserg, as well) the daily meeting time seems like it can become a real problem for some people - I definitely had some mornings where even though I would otherwise enjoy class it was not where I wanted to be.
It's a great course, with minimal time commitment.
A good class.  Fair amount of work and an understanding professor.  Just keep a good rapport with him about tardees/absences and you should be alright.
Take the course! The professor really cares about his students.
Learn the vocabulary as you go- don't wait until the day before a quiz. Practice speaking out loud using the CD at home.
If you are at all interested in learning a new language, take this class.  The professor is highly engaging, the workload is manageable, the language is beautiful, and the class size is small.  One of my favorite aspects of this class was that it met regularly and it was small, so you spend every morning of the entire semester with the same people, which makes for a nice class environment.
In this class you will make tremendous improvements.
This class made my freshman fall. It was fun, comfortable, and very useful. I'm learning so many useful phrases and it helps bridge language barriers.
Professor Ngo is an enthusiastic teacher, and he is also the author of the textbook. He is very familiar with both the Northern and Southern usage of words. But note that the class and textbook will be centered around the Northern dialect.
This is a difficult class, but as fair and fun as any language class you will ever take.
The class size is small, and the professor is amazing at teaching Vietnamese so if you're interested and passionate about Vietnamese definitely take this course, it's extremely worth it.
If you want to learn Vietnamese, you'll get an excellent amount of help in this course.
Professor Binh is very nice and this class is very enjoyable.
It's early!
For those who want to learn Vietnamese, this class is a lot of fun and very rewarding. It's much more than a prep for tourists; it gives access to many aspects of Vietnamese culture and a rigorous understanding of how the language works.
Do the homework, listen to the CDs.  You'll be surprised how much it helps just to hear more Vietnamese outside of class.  It doesn't take that long, but minute for minute it is one of the most efficient uses of your time.
The instructor is demanding with regard to pronunciation, which is good.
It is a relaxed course more focused about learning and understanding than just making the grades.
This is actually a really fun language course.  Vietnamese seems like an extremely hard language to learn but you'll be surprised how much you learn in this class.
awesome!
the daily 9am is difficult, but it is well worth it if you enjoy learning languages
