very easy class, lectures are boring, but section is really interesting
Comically easy
After working out the kinks of a new course, this one will be a gem.
It's a class that really isn't as good as it should be. No question, there's potential for it to be goodand it might be in the futurebut the lectures weren't engaging and going to section was like spending time in the cages at the Bronx Zoo. Too much theory, not enough of things like international relations, entertainment, etc.
If you are interested in soccer or sports, this is an interesting class.
Super easy but boring.
It will be better organized next term and that will make it a much more fun class to be a part of.
This class is great.  you don't need to have background knowledge of soccer although it will be harder to talk in section with out.  I hope they teach this class again for many more years!
VERY interesting.  take it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1
Very interesting course on soccer as it applies to many aspects. However, slightly lacking in focus and organization.
As a new course, this class was lacking in structure/organization. But if you love the subject matter, some of the readings really let you get into the inner workings of the cultural impact of soccer in society. Professor Siskind really likes to get you thinking about what is at work and at stake in soccer that you may have not thought about before. All in all, I think this course will be much much better the second time around and I would definitely recommend it.
Fun class that goes more in depth than just the game of soccer, which is fun to learn!
This class will be interesting for any soccer fan. The guest lecturers at the end were extremely underwhelming. The course is not as substantive and well-organized as I had hoped. However, it is still a fun elective if that is what you are looking for.
Great class that incorporates readings of all types, the professors are great and very flexible which encouraged me to do more of the work.
A good class, though I'm not sure I would take it just because you love watching soccer. I saw plenty of people watching games in class instead of paying attention, so that seems to suggest to me they shouldn't have taken it. It is chock full of literary theory as well as soccer clips, so make sure you are prepared for both.
amazing class
Hope it's taught in a seminar, otherwise don't bother
It wasn't always the most structured course in the world. At least once a class the professors would start bickering with each other which was always hilarious. Towards the end of the class though it felt like the lecture and reading topics had less and less to actually do with soccer.
This is a fairly relaxed course. There are a lot of weekly readings, and not everything is covered in lecture. You can certainly get by without reading everything, though a lot of the readings are interesting, and lead to some great discussions in section.
Cool class.
This class is not strenuous at all but if you aren't genuinely interested in soccer you will probably find it boring.
You will be super bored and will have no motivation to do anything in this class.
Sports, particularly soccer, are fascinating study topics. The class never seems like a chore and you are guaranteed to have an opinion on the topic on hand, even if you do not follow sports. Some of the readings may seem to go above your head in terms of theory, but that's ok because you will be able to understand it fine. I'm so happy there is finally a course on the sociology of sport at Harvard!
The dynamic between the two professors is always fun to watch. The readings can be boring at times, but the lecture component makes it worth it
This has by far been my easiest class so far at Harvard. There are weekly response papers, very open ended and graded on a check-plus/check/check-minus format. Participation is a huge component of the course, so as long as you attend lectures and speak up in section on occasion you'll be fine. The course doesn't fulfill any Gen Ed requirements, so it's not useful in a sense unless you're concentrating in Romance Studies (which I am not), but it was a good fourth course to have on my schedule. If you're in other classes with heavy workloads, the soccer class is a good balancing act. The lectures were pretty bad, usually in lecture I would do other homework on my laptop or sleep. But they did take attendance in lecture, so it behooves one to attend. Section made this class worthwhile; the conversation was fun and engaging, and my section TF (Chris) is a great guy.
Talking and reading about soccer can be fun, but not everyone is very engaged.Two hour lectures are very long, and the material doesn't always move fast enough (i.e. lingering on one lecture slide for over an hour)
Parts of this class were definitely enjoyable, but it can definitely be improved. The teaching staff clearly loved soccer, and some weeks of the course were great, but others could use improvement.
Don't take this class just because it's easy, and you want to do little work. Take it because you generally enjoy talking about everything and anything you could possibly think about any sport, and I mean any. We even had one discussion centered around Slam Ball and Ultimate Tack Ball in which we pondered what characteristics of a "game" make it a "sport."
You know going in that this isn't going to be a substantial class. But that's probably why you're taking it.
The course was not a difficult one but it was not very exciting.
The course itself provides an excellent opportunity to engage with a newly emerging field of study. At the same time you may find yourself a bit lost during a few of the lectures. However, the dedicated teaching staff and professors make this class well worth one's time.
lecture was terrible, no idea what happened for most of them. section is absolutely the most rewarding part. If you're a soccer fan you become really invested in it, if not - you'll learn a lot, if you care to at least.
The theoretical readings were awfully long, distracting from the main themes of the week, usually boring, and do not do justice to soccer. The films and novels are very interesting, though. But you could get that component outside of class.
This new course was designed as a seminar for 20 people; given the popularity of the subject, 60 enrolled.  As a result, it was a little disastrous - the two-hour lectures were long, slow-paced and disorganized, the professors couldn't adjust to the larger format and the question-answer style of teaching didn't keep the class interested.  There simply wasn't any rhythm.  As a result, the course drained all the fun out of studying soccer, a subject rich in academic potential (evidenced by the quality of the readings).  Hopefully the course will learn from the trial period - it's worth shopping, especially if it can be stretched to two one-hour classes a week in future offerings.
Not a high workload, but readings and lectures can be quite tedious.
The readings are great, and section (at least for me) was really enjoyable. A good mix of ideas. The profs are so nice, but I just felt like lectures were reallyyyy long.
Take this if you are interested in soccer.  Good lectures and sections where it will be easy to participate if you are passionate about soccer
This seems like it will be fun and interesting, but it's neither. I'm not saying this because I thought it would be an easy class because I did not. I just think the whole course was so disorganized and poorly planned, lectures were horrendous, there was no communication between the professors and the TFs. The entire theme of the class is vague. The lectures never seem to have a point. I honestly feel like this class was a huge waste of time, except for section, and I wouldn't have taken it if I didn't need it for my secondary.
This is not a class about soccer itself as much as a course that utilizes the lens of soccer as a way to study globalization (among other things). Don't go in expecting to watch and talk about soccer games all the time. I really enjoyed the class, but it wasn't what I expected and a lot of my friends who took it were not huge fans.
The course is very unorganized. However, if you interested in soccer, not just the game but all aspects of the game then you might enjoy the course
Do not let the title fool you: this class is about social theory and philosophy, and this is sometimes related tangentially to football. There is a lot of work for this course, and lectures are mostly boring and don't concern football.
Know what this class is: applying social theory through the lens of soccer. You won't be just watching soccer highlights. A lot of people just stream soccer during lecture instead of paying attention. This is an actual class and you can learn some interesting things but people don't seem to take it all that seriously.
If it's offered again, make sure to take this course. Where else will you get a chance to meet someone like Landon Donovan? Yeah, he probably won't come back a second time, but either way, the course is very easy and very interesting.
This is an easy elective, but it is not a very good class. It has potential, but the lectures need to be more organized.
Awesome class to learn about sports in a different light
This class was a total waste of time. A TOTAL WASTE OF TIME
This class is easy if you put in just a smidge more than no work. A great class for interesting readings and boring lectures.
Stress free and interesting.
THIS CLASS IS LOVE, THIS CLASS IS LIFE
cool topic, boring class with not much structure
Fun class, but make sure you actually enjoy the sport or you won't attach to the material and won't get anything out of it
This is a poorly run class. The lectures are not organized well and the overall course does not have a cohesive structure. The readings can be interesting, but also are very theoretical and not linked to soccer for the most part. Really this isn't a class about soccer at all, so if that's what you're looking for, then don't take it. Exams are super easy though.
This is a really fun class that looks at the sport of soccer from a sociological lens.
Very interesting material, could've been more organized.
I would recommend it to anybody that is interested in philosophy (especially applying Kant to soccer) and wants a class with little workload. If you want to take it for the sake of soccer, sociology and politics - don't.
Great class.
interesting, unique, and not stressful. if you have elective room, take it for sure. it's a class about soccer!
If you like soccer, you will like this class.
This is an interesting class that teaches general topics in the humanities and social sciences through the lens of soccer. This is not merely soccer trivia, and there is dense literature and theory involved in the course material. That said, it fosters a much, much deeper appreciation of sport and soccer, and you get to hang out with like-minded soccer fans.
Fun but some very dense readings
Fun course only if you are into soccer previously. Or if you're into philosophy. It will not generate soccer passion. The professors and the interaction between the professors is humorous and engaging. Their passion for the game is clear every second of lecture. Lectures may get a bit boring though.
Good
Not very interesting, even if you like soccer
This class was fine, a good use of an elective.
Don't bother. Poorly taught and disorganized. It has its moments, but they are balanced by a lot of dreariness. If you actually do the response papers however, it is a very easy course.
The course was interesting but sometimes the lectures were extremely dull. You still get to learn about the interesting facets of the soccer world. The class doesn't require a huge time commitment/ the assignments are pretty laid back.
This class is a course on Marxist thought masquerading as a class on soccer. The lectures do not seem to be very thought out, and most of the readings are totally unrelated to the game itself. This class is useful if you want to take something that is easy, but it will be neither fun nor academically engaging.
Readings are annoying but its still a very cool topic to consider and talk about seriously.
Excellent course, you learn so much. Didn't expect to get such a great and detailed background on Latin American, European, and African history during the 20th century while establishing a fascinating intersection with the beautiful game. Definitely take if even remotely interested
AWESOME!!!
A lot of fun
This class is excellent. You won't always talk about soccer, but you certainly will get to spend more time talking about soccer than you would in any other class. Classes can be a bit dull, but the light workload and generally enjoyable material make this class a must.
This is a fun, interesting and relatively painless elective class for anyone who loves soccer (and/or for anyone pursuing a Secondary field in RLL). It does not require much weekly work- usually a couple short readings and a short response paper- and definitely shows many of the ways soccer impacts and affects the world. Also, we were able to meet and have a Q&A with Landon Donovan, which was probably the highlight. The course could have been better organized, and the lectures can sometimes feel like they lack substance, but I would overall recommend it.
This is a very manageable course. I would say that the first lecture is not representative of how the course will be for the rest of the semester. There is a greater focus on theoretical concepts.
I think the readings are a bit to dense for the nature of the topic, but overall it's a fairly easy class.
it's actually an interesting and relatively easy class...worth a try
BE WARY of this course. It is easy, but also quite boring. If not for John Welsh, I'm not sure I'd have gotten much out of this class. In section, John would basically do his own thing, often much different than what the professors did in lecture, which was probably for the better.
This class presents an opportunity to see soccer in an academic light.
This course was very interesting
Siskind and Erspamer have good intentions but they do not command the room well and they do not structure lectures well or speak very articulately. Most people in the course take it on a lark and because they are interested in soccer, but a mere interest in soccer won't sustain your interest for long! The section component can be quite good though.
Class is great, Professors have to be careful as to not run out of time on issues of importance in the pursuit of tangential points.
It's not what I thought it would be
The material is at times so theoretical, fluffy, and high falutin that it hurts to read or speak about it. You'll have to deal with ideas like "the social" and "massifying" and "carnivalization" that are fake words to describe real things.
It's an interesting class, but concepts can be very hard to understand.
This class taught a lot about different philosophers and big ideas throughout history, all while looking at the game of soccer.
This class is unstructured, poorly taught, and exceptionally boring. You will come out of this class having learnt nothing apart but that you should not have wasted a class on it.
If you're expecting it to be all about soccer, you're wrong. It has a very light workload but is far from enjoyable.
You get to learn about a wide range of sociological, philosophical, political, historical, and economic issues related to soccer. Some of the texts are difficult, but they ultimately allow for more nuanced discussion about the issues. I think it's a good introduction for people who aren't as experienced in the humanities.
Take it.
Great class that incorporates the game of soccer.
Hala Madrid!
Good class to take if you're a soccer fan and love soccer
Overall, this course was an enjoyable experience. The course readings were for the most part very interesting, and the discussions were thought-provoking.
This is primarily a philosophy class that uses soccer as the vehicle for the messages and concepts it presents. The material is interesting, but does spread beyond soccer. This is a good thing, but it also means don't come in on the first day expecting to do nothing of value but coast.
The class was overall very enjoyable. The workload was pretty light, and the subject material was very interesting.
I would say this class turned out to be much different than I expected. Don't let the idea of it being a class on the game of soccer fool you. A lot of the time I felt like I was taking a philosophy class instead. Also much better to take this class if you have some soccer background because you will feel out of place otherwise
While it can get really frustrating to listen to Siskind and Erspamer's biased and unjustifiable opinions on soccer/life, this is one of the rare opportunities you have to take a course on soccer and you actually can learn quite a bit about the game's history.
Must take. This class is very easy, the professors and all of the TFs were super chill (the professors once said that it'll be hard finding someone chiller than him) and their passion for soccer is obvious through their pretty interesting take on soccer (as understood by globalization and politics). I've heard from past Q Guides that the lectures are very dry and unrelated to the topic at hand. I would agree to the extent that the professors will go on a tangent, but that's just the nature of the course in my opinion. I think if you do the readings even at the minimum, you can learn to appreciate the material you learn in class.
This class is not as fun as it may seem. Readings can be very tedious, and the lectures are often rambling and unstructured. Overall it was a pretty disappointing course.
Interesting idea for a class but not engaging. The material in itself could have been interesting but the staff reach a little too far to link soccer to greater themes. Section focuses too much on reading and not much on lecture.
This is a low stress class with one response paper per week and readings for the papers. However, I am not very interested in philosophy and a majority of the class was abstract philosophy that was then tied to soccer, so I found the class slightly boring.
I genuinely feel like I learned stuff. I also really liked it. You just have to be able to follow their trains of thought during lecture.
This class is a blast.  If you're into soccer at all, take the course.  Just know that it's not about "why we should play a 4-4-2 rather than a 4-3-3", but rather how the global game ties into human behavior, such as in politics and sociology.  The workload is completely manageable, and the material is interesting.
This class sounds a lot more interesting than it is. If you look at past Q comments, you might see a conflicting picture, but I really found that the course ultimately fails to live up to its potential. The philosophical components of the course felt shoehorned in, and I think there was some fairly dubious philosophy, which was difficult to listen to if you've taken a real philosophy course here. The components focused on soccer specifically were very interesting, however, and I think if the focus were just on the history/context and culture of soccer then it would be a much better course. As it stands, the course was very disorganized, with lectures often hard to follow. Section was not much better. The course was not a lot of work, so it was reasonable in that regard. If you are really passionate about soccer and are interested in aesthetics, you might enjoy the course. The guest speakers were good too, though Maradona couldn't get a visa to come.
At times it feels like a waste of time just because it is very disorganized. Mariano and Francesco are ver knowledgeable and interesting, but so disorganized that its hard to follow what they are trying to say.
super easy. the course does not make complete sense all the time.
The topics discussed are interesting and relevant in the soccer world and you will be able to talk about them with other people in section etc. That being said the class was very disorganized and it was hard to remain engaged thorough the semester. It was also during the Champions League games so think about it. I had higher expectations because I really like football and I do not think that this class did it enough justice.
