The course is very interesting and fun for those who are interested in the mechanics of language. It has more of a linguistic focus than a sociological one, although many different issues are discussed.
This is a good way to fulfill the departmental Romance Studies requirement and has an interesting intro to comparative language.
Don't take this class if you're not into learning on your own.  Also, don't take it if you don't like feeling like you are just killing time in class.
RS 79 is a fun class that will make you explore the languages you speak and challenge you to ask yourself hard questions about them.  Multiple individual projects mean that you'll be charting your own course through the class, but that journey can be a fascinating one.
This course will give you a new knowledge/skill set on grasping, identifying, and understanding the differences in the romance languages. It will make you that intellectual person at social gatherings that has interesting and RELEVANT knowledge to share.
If the topic fascinates you, take the class. You'll learn about the varying romance languages in a space that no other Harvard class offers. However, if you're hesitant, think-twice. The 2 hour classes can seem to never end, and Professor Di Fabio's disorganization might frustrate you. All that said, you'll undoubtedly learn a lot from the class and there's a chance you might enjoy it.
A class which helps you learn a lot about how the different Romance languages are connected and the different things that make them unique.
The course is definitely not for everyone. An interest in languages and the structure and nitty gritty parts of language is really essential otherwise you will not be interested by the assignments or materials.
It's a great course to take for any Romance Languages concentrator, especially those in the Romance Studies field.
This is a great class if you are passionate about Romance languages and cultures. However, you will only take from this class what you put into it. Overall, it was interesting, but also not very well organized and could have benefited from a clearer syllabus that more fully explained what the assignments were. I am glad that I've taken this course, but must say that you really have to be into Romance languages and culture to get into it. Also, for those who have no background in linguistics, it might be a bit confusing at times, but not enough that it should discourage you from taking the course. Pros and cons put into consideration, it still was an enjoyable class.
I would only take the class if linguistics is a true interest. This class wasn't quite what I expected it to be.  It is very technically heavy at the beginning and that should be taken into consideration before enrolling in the course.
Really fun and not too much work. It gets more and more interesting the more Romance languages you know.
Cool class that moves at a slow pace and is a little disorganized
a fantastic class with a light work load but a thoroughly fascinating content
Only take it if you're interested in this material!
This is a really good class.  There isn't much work, but you still learn a lot through classroom discussions, which are the best part of the class.
Great class, I thoroughly enjoyed it. Professor Di Fabio is approachable, and she'll make the time to help you understand course materials.
This class is sometimes tedious, and you don't always feel as if you're really learning things that are pertinent to the course, but it's really easy.  So go ahead and take it if you're interested in languages and you need an easy course.
Great class that thrives off the varied language and international experiences of the students and Professor Di Fabio's guidance. If you have knowledge of Romance languages (the more, the better!) and a thorough interest in them, you will take a great deal away from this course. Background with linguistic terminology, though not required, is seriously helpful for the first half of the class, which is focused on the linguistic/structural aspects of the language and was the most challenging part of the course. The second half consists of lectures from (Harvard) language experts in each category that link the languages in fascinating ways, and the final project is wide open for you to explore your interests, with feedback from classmates and Professor Di Fabio, which is a great learning experience. It's a really interesting class with a laid-back structure, and I'd definitely recommend it to all RLL concentrators and enthusiasts!
RS79 is a great class! I loved every minute of it. Prof. DiFabio is an excellent lecturer who will get you interested in all the class discussions. There are many fun activities  even fun homework! Even if you're not a concentrator, consider taking this class. You will feel smarter coming out of it.
Take this class! This course offers a lively and interesting analysis of the Romance Languages, both major and minor, and is a must-take for anyone interested in the field. It has a heavy linguistic component, which can be challenging but is also very rewarding. The breakdown of the languages is fascinating, and will allow for easier study of other languages, even those outside of the Romance sphere, afterward. You will learn so much throughout this course, it is very much worth the time!
If you are a romance or linguistics concentrator, I would highly recommend this course: it is relaxed, easy and, for the most part, very enjoyable. Some classes are better than others and sometimes the lectures get tiresome/technical but you get the chance to do a lot of individual research on subjects that you choose and read fun and interesting articles on language- in my opinion, what could be better than that?! However, as an elective for some other concentration, I concede that this course might seem rather pointless...
I would definitely recommend this class- although I would tell students to be prepared for the problem sets, which were somewhat confusing and difficult for me. Overall, it was a great class and I thoroughly enjoyed it!
This is a really informative course and provides a great insight into language as a process
This is a course that gets you to appreciate language on another level. You will be glad you took this course after it is over :)
