if you are actively confronted with theory in your research, go and take this class.
If you want to have a general notion of the most important topics related to theory you must take it.
A great and productive overview of literature theory and a bully pulpit for discussion.
Shop this class and check how many students are taking it. If the group is not bigger than 10, take it, if you are looking for an update on theory. If the class is too big it makes no sense! (no feedback, fewer chances to speak up, discussions might develop a random dynamic)
If you have not done any courses on literary theory, this is a good course to start. But if you have and are not obliged to take it, then you should probably opt out and select courses more akin to your interests because the scope is just to broad.
Be ready for large amount of readings. However, almost all of the reading materials are fun to read. The general atmosphere in class is very friendly. Prof. Hamilton and Prof. Conley treat you as colleague.
If you already have some knowledge of theory, this class will give you an opportunity to jump in and engage with concepts. Unfortunately, there is not much guidance from professors for those who are new to theory. You are sort of on your own in certain ways, which can be very constructive and a good learning experience, but it also has its disadvantages.
Enjoy the readings. You get out what you put in.
You can meet really interesting literary people.
For a class that is a requirement for several department's graduate programs in literature, I felt that other classes I took this semester managed to illustrate the role and (contested) "application" of theory/praxis much better than Questions of Theory. Many students, myself included, walked away from this seminar relieved to have completed a requirement, but frustrated by what seemed to have been several weeks of discussions turning in circles. The professors who teach this course are brilliant in their own right, but their pedagogical techniques of managing such a blended seminar weren't very effective.
Please get your department to change the professors and format of this class for future students!
This class is a great chance to discuss interesting theoretical topics with your classmates. I particularly appreciated the discussions led by my classmates, who presented relevant questions and had obviously done a very thorough reading of the works in question.
If you believe that studying literature is a matter of thinking (better: of learning in order to think deeply) this is the best course that you can imagine!
If you already have a background in theory, Schnapp and Hamilton's erudite insights will be really helpful to you and their innovative approach will help you connect thinkers around issues through time. If you have no theoretical background, this is a tough first class to take.
Stimulating, dynamic course with professors who really care and put in a real effort to make it engaging and worthwhile.
The discussion is often quite compelling; the issues are wide-ranging and integral to literary analysis; often, however, your voice can be subordinated to that of the prof.
A very interesting and valuable course, but difficult for someone with little background in theory. I wish I could take the class again, knowing what I know now.
Make sure to spend times with the reading and come to class with questions and issues already formed in your mind.
Great way to get to know the professors in the RLL department, and a good introduction to (mainly french) theory.
If class structure is reorganized then I would recommend it with enthusiasm. The course has the potential to be tremendously interesting, but a more careful selection of readings is necessary
The class is an overview of various unrelated subjects.
I would recommend the course, albeit with a few caveats. It is required for RLL grads, but I would even recommend to outside students. There are a few things wrong with the course, but these are largely easy fixes with disproportionate ramifications. All in all, it is a great idea imperfectly executed.
Though it's not officially a survey course, part of the reason I enrolled was because I wanted a broader exposure to theory, but the best part of the course wasn't the readings. It was the weekly presentations by professors in the RLL department (occasionally with joint-appointments in comp lit and wgs). They were truly great and I enjoyed attending class every week.
Prepare to be bombarded by French, at times almost non-sensical, obscurantist critics.
It's a very fun class. A lot of work involved but we learn from such eclectic fields that it makes it very interesting and fun.
It might be painful sometimes to learn that everything can be deconstructed and everything you do and think is based on a long series of assumptions, but this course will prepare you for being a literature scholar - if you can take it and get something out of it (and particularly if you enjoy it) this is a field for you.
Make sure that you approach this course with an open mind and do not stress about trying to understand all the theory perfectly. Find something that interests you and focus on that.
The course is a good example of Western Literary theory, with intelligent approaches from the speakers and interesting readings.
Greatly professor-centered and, then, not all professors truly prepared their interventions.
Its helpful but not enough if you want to introduce yourself into literary theory.
