This course will change the way you think about communication in every aspectboth as conducted in your own native language as well as the romance languages you'll study/translate/etc. throughout the semester. I can't imagine anyone walking away from this course and wishing they hadn't taken it.
Start work on your commentary early! It can be super rewarding to do a thorough job on your translation and commentary.
Be aware of the lengthy homework assignments.
This course is crucial for those RLL concentrators who wish to pursue or at the very least understand the art of translation and its role in inter-lingual literary dialogue.
The class is what you make of it. It can be the easiest or hardest course you take, depending on how much effort you put into it. The issues it raises and the final translation project can occupy you for hours on end, or you can forget about them altogether and it doesn't seem to make much difference.
This is a wonderful way to complete a Romance studies requirement if you are pursuing an RLL secondary. Additionally, it will open your eyes to a field that is not often discusses, yet has a rich and diverse field of scholars with interesting readings and theories.
This course is a new and interesting way to use your language skills.
A Harvard gem, would definitely recommend to those with an interest in Romance Languages and looking for a small class. The readings, translation psets, and final project were a reminder of the importance and reward in paying attention to detail and going at a pace that is right for you and does not feel rushed. With the final project and the weekly psets, you feel you are actually crafting something throughout the semester, that it is more a workshop than a class. At the end, I felt proud of my work and my final project.
This class is amazing. All of the work you do is meaningful and class discussions are always interesting.
AMAZING course! Definitely take it if you have time/interest.  The subject is fascinating and the course is well organized and extremely well run.  Prof Di Fabio is excellent.
This was a phenomenal class! The readings are fascinating and the work is challenging in the very best way. This class was such a success for me, I think, because my peers and I enrolled for the same reason that Prof. di Fabio taught it: we are all genuinely interested in the discipline. Our shared enthusiasm for the material made it scarcely feel like work, especially during class when we workshopped texts. I could not more highly recommend this course for students who are interested in meticulous literary analysis.
Professor DiFabio is so approachable and makes translation and translation theory fun. You will learn a lot about your own romance language and the cultural differences that arise from translation. I would highly recommend taking this course.
If you're passionate about a language, this is a great way to be exposed to it in a different way.  You'll definitely have to work harder than many other language (Spanish in my case) courses, but I think it's more rewarding b/c of that. The professor is great and very helpful, and it's fun to have someone who gets as excited as you about the work you are doing.
best course I have taken at Harvard
It is an amazing class with an amazing instructor and it will help you master your language skills.
