I took this as an elective because I needed another class and a couple friends who actually needed the gen ed persuaded me to shop it with them. That said, this would be an excellent and not too-strenuous way to get the ER credit out of the way. Weirs is an excellent lecturer and you won't want to skip. However, you must be willing to commit to reading hundreds of pages per week, and though at some point you WILL fall behind--such is life--you have to be also willing to at least try to catch up. The trade-off is that the authors featured here are truly interesting, and if you haven't read Brothers Karamazov or Anna Karenina, you really should anyway since this is such a forgiving environment in which to do so.
Great opportunity to read several greatest novels in Russian literature but keep in mind that you might have a hard time in the class if you are not a great writer; reading and enjoying is one thing, and writing about it is another!
Loved this class! Absolutely amazing readings, great teaching staff, and fun lectures. Try to keep up with reading for optimal discussions
I was intimidated by this class at first, especially because it was about Russian literature and I had zero background, but Professor Weir is amazing professor and his lectures are always super relevant and engaging. I loved that amorphous ethical questions were anchored into the text, because it means that there is something to really sink my teeth into when discussing ethics. Weir also makes the texts super modern and funny; he calls Tolstoy "the patron saint of awkward people" which really makes it so much easier to approach this venerable (and sometimes intimidating) canon of literature. Alex was an amazing TF who was really engaged and also just super fun to talk to about my essays and general thoughts on Russian Literature. I always felt really comfortable going to office hours for both Professor Weir and my TF and that helped me get so much more out of the course. In general, GO TO OFFICE HOURS.
There is a lot of reading. It is very easy to fall behind.
The lectures are very engaging and definitely allow for a much deeper reading of the works as compared to a casual reading.
This course is really awesome. Reading novels added a nice balance to the rest of my workload. Forewarning: there is a ton of reading so it's best to space it out. On the other hand, because you're reading fiction, you should be able to breeze through them. You will also learn a ton!
If you think you might like reading Russian literature, take this course, because its a great way to start. Incredible, engaging lectures. I never wanted to skip lecture, never really clock watched like one usually does. Prof. Weir is a genius, I mean wow, best lectures ever. Brothers Karamazov gets a bit dry about 600 pages in but youll get through it. The secondary readings are also really good, and best part is, its not a big deal if you dont get around to them. The sections are good because the kind of person who takes this class is someone who wants to discuss this literature and probably did the reading, so its really engaging and interesting. Dont take if you just want to pass an ER, take if you wanna read some dope books. Also, workload not too bad: 2-300 pages a week reading, plus one response paper, and then two big papers and youre done. I say, go for it.
Overall, a very good class and a great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement. Be prepared for a fair bit of reading (~200 pages) a week, and also to think critically about what you have read and make arguments. Professor Weir is a great lecturer and my TF (Alex) was fantastic.  The ethical questions in the novels/short stories are also very interesting.
Lectures are amazing and so are the readings. Make sure you keep up with the reading, although it's definitely hard. It's worth it in the end.
The readings are less of a chore as they are interesting.
This class is an interesting way to satisfy the ER requirement. It provides a nice overview and introduction to two of the world's most famous authors, allowing for comparison and contrast between their styles as well as appreciation of them both individually. Professor Weir's lectures are engaging, but sometimes feel slightly shallow; he mentioning deep, thought-provoking concepts and words, but then just moves right on, glossing over their insinuations and potential deeper meanings. Section was thus a key component of the course for me, and I enjoyed the deeper, religious, and philosophical discussions in which we engaged. Lastly, I wish the course had discussed the religious underpinnings of Dostoevsky's work in greater depth. I feel the course suffered from not engaging in more religious discussion when religion is so clearly central to Dostoevsky's work.
An interesting class with not too much writing, but there is a ton of reading to do if you want to actually  get something out of the class.
This class is a ton of reading. If you don't keep up with it, it's impossible to catch up. Lecture was fantastic, but section was pulling teeth. Still, this class is probably better than other Ethical Reasoning Gen Eds if you like to read.
Professor Weir makes this class the incredible experience that reading Russian literature can be. Don't be intimidated by the length of the books or the immensity of their reputation- Weir makes them accessible and exciting without removing the nuance or sophistication. I highly recommend taking this course with friends.
The reading and writing requisites for this class are a little burdensome at times, but manageable. Be prepared to read around 200+ pages per week and write 1-2 page response papers.
This class is great. Readings are wonderful, teaching is wonderful, pace is quick but manageable. Keep up with the readings!
This is a great class if you want to be exposed to classic works of literature and influential philosophical thinking! The class is a nice size giving it a personal feel so that you can talk to the professor if you want to but also don't need to if you chose not to. My advice: stay on top of your readings by reading a little everyday!
Great chance to read some amazing novels. I was underwhelmed, though, by the lectures, and also did not love my section experience. Be prepared to spend some serious time reading.
Attend every lecture. You do not want to miss Prof. Weir's lectures.
Be prepared to read, and read, and read. The course was interesting, but if you're only in it for the GenEd credit, rethink your choice. If you are willing to put in the work, you'll get more out of it, beyond a GenEd requirement.
This class was lovely. Perfect way to fulfill ER.
This class is wonderful!!! Wonderful readings, discussions, lectures and TAs!! Would highlt recommend. Fantastic ethtical reasoning gen ed option.
There is a lot of reading and it is easy to fall behind so I wouldn't recommend taking it as an "easy" GenEd. That being said, if you are able to keep up with the readings, the class is not difficult and is essentially just a literature class. Lectures can be interesting although it is easy to feel like you can miss them because they are not strictly necessary to complete the assignments.
This class ended up being very rewarding upon completion. I felt like I had taken a challenging course, pushed myself to try a subject that I usually would not have pursued, and the end feeling was good. There is a lot of reading (some of it more interesting than other parts), but it lends to a very complete and interesting course. Professor Weir is simply incredible and I would recommend attending all the lectures (I did).
Great class to fulfill the ER gen-ed! I read Anna 3 years ago, and it was still worth the re-read again for this class. Also, lecture and sections were excellent and a lot of fun. I really did enjoy Brothers and Anna very much.
This is a chance to read some of the great world novels (Anna Karenina, The Brothers Karamazov) that you might never read without this class. That being said, there is a fair amount of reading in this course so it can be easy to fall behind.
This is a great overview of the works of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky, so it's a great ethical reasoning to take if you are interested in these. However, be prepared for a decent amount of work, about 200-250 pages of reading per week on top of weekly response papers and 2 essays. Especially towards the end of the semester when work is piling up all around it's tough to keep up. But if you're interested it's definitely worth it!
I am a science student who loved the humanities in high school. My AP Literature class in high school studied Crime and Punishment - one of my favorite novels ever. Daily discussion of its themes interested me and I wanted that with more Russian literature and I thought this Gen Ed would be the perfect avenue to have the opportunity to do that.Little did I know that there are two uninteresting lectures with no opportunity to discuss anything each week and one weekly situation with no structure and full of aimless banter. When you have so many other courses that require your engagement and give back to you with enthusiasm, taking a Gen Ed like this is not worth it. Do not do it unless you are truly interested in Slavic studies or literature as a primary interest and you think about these things regardless of whether guidance is present or not. With such a non-structured, arbitrary class it is not enough to just have an interest you want to explore for a semester, especially in the face of having 3 other classes you are way more interested in. Reading 150 pages a week of great Russian literature will turn into a dreadful chore half way through the semester if this is not a highly prioritized class for you. You will dislike it and this class will dampen what was once a great interest for you. This is not a gem Gen Ed. It is not easy. There are good writers in every section.
Lectures can be dry and not that enlightening (I was one of the few who went to them all), but the texts and sections are worth it.
Professor Weir is great, tfs are great--you will need to read a lot but it's great reading--if you are interested in any of the texts mentioned, take this class. I cannot recommend reading the Brothers Karamazov highly enough, and even if you're not interested in russian lit, it's got something for everyone--it's a murder mystery, a love story, a set of philosophical musings about the nature of God--it's a great way to fill your ER requirement.
I've always wanted to read these Russian writers, so this class is a great way to get exposure to that kind of literature while also fulfilling your ER requirement!
Ethical reasoning always seems like the most daunting gen ed to fulfill, but this class is an excellent option! The professor is far and away the best that I've had for a gen ed, and one of the best at my time at Harvard. Lecture is always interesting and entertaining, due to Professor Weir's passion for Russian lit and great sense of humor. One word of warning, however: only take this class if you love to read, and if you love to read a LOT. 200-300 pages of reading a week is a lot, even if it is The Brothers Karamazov (which I absolutely loved. Just a bit tough when there are exams and other class assignments looming). Keep the reading load and paper-writing (there are 2 medium-length papers, but no exams) in mind, but I would still highly, highly recommend it as a great class.
If you want to read Russian literature while also fulfilling your ER requirement, this is the class for you! Tolstoy and Dostoevsky ask all the important questions of life and Professor Weir gives pretty interesting lectures. Just be aware that the books are long and take time to read!
Seems like a no-brainer to take this for the Ethical Reasoning GenEd. Awesome class. Prof Weir is extremely passionate about the material, and the texts you read are classics that you will more than likely enjoy and get a lot from. If you enjoy traditional English/Lit classes, this will be a perfect fit for you, and the added emphasis on ethics stems naturally from the readings. It is a decent amount of reading per week, but don't let that dissuade you. Must take.
Take this class! You won't regret the opportunity to really delve into these seminal texts for a semester. Be as proactive and diligent as possible with the reading, because it's so easy to get behind, and that being said--you're likely to fall behind anyway. Just do your best and you'll still get a lot out of it! Professor Weir is a really great lecturer and very funny, so it will actually be a very enjoyable experience to analyze these dense, often dark, texts.
This is a good course for satisfying ER, because in many ways it is not an ER class. It's a literature class that talks about moral questions. You should take this if, like me, you need to satisfy that requirement and have an interest in Russian lit. It's a deeply manageable course. If you stay generally up on the readings and go to most all the lectures, and go to section you'll be more than prepared to do the essays successfully and be happy with the resulting grade.
This was one of the best gen-eds I have taken. It definitely isn't the easiest of gen-eds. There is a lot of essential reading (that is the whole point of the course!), and there are a few essays in addition to weekly response papers, but the lectures and discussion make everything worth it. I had never read anything by Tolstoy or Dostoevsky before this class, and I can't think of a better way to be introduced to Russian Literature.
This class has a LOT of reading - Russian novels are not short, and they cannot really be skimmed. But this class is such a phenomenal introduction that none of that matters. Prof. Weir's lectures are excellent and the additional materials are so enriching.
That it is more work than the average Gen-Ed but it's very rewarding.
These texts are heavy and not everyone's favorite...but the course is easy enough to get through.  As long as you read the two major novels, you're fine for the essays.
It will very likely change who you are as a person.
The books are certainly the centerpiece of the class. Read the books regardless. The class was certainly good, but it was unfocused. The "moral inquiry" part was a bit lacking, and it ended up kind of becoming a one-hundred-person book club, except without the wine and cheese.
Dr.Weir was a great professor. If you have a semester that's light on reading, I would totally recommend this class.  Not exactly easy, but worth it. Just make sure to keep up. Don't make the same mistake I did: You are not gonna be happy if you have to speed read 400 pages of "The Brothers Karamazov" two weeks before Christmas.
Fantastic course. The lectures were consistently excellent, and the literature is awesome. Best gen ed I've taken yet.
The readings are interesting (though sometimes hard to get through), and you'll leave with an opinion about Tolstoy vs. Dostoevksy
This is a nice class for fulfilling Ethical Reasoning. You read very little straight philosophy while getting the chance to read and discuss some really great novels (that are hard to get through on your own!) Prof Weir is also a really good lecturer!
If you want to become familiar with Tolstoy and Dostoevsky, take this course!
Be prepared to read a lot. If that's okay with you, then this course is amazing. Otherwise, you may find yourself falling behind and confused in section. Lecture was always great though.
The books are great, but Prof. Weir isn't the best lecturer.
Prof Weir does a wonderful job exposing you to Russian Lit. Russian Lit no longer seems intimidating to me! The texts we read were very satisfying and initiated what I think will be a lifelong enjoyment of readings.
Taking the course will teach you so much about how to interpret different texts.
In ER 28, we read a wide variety of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky - from obscure short stories to novellas to wildly famous novels - as well as some supplementary philosophy and criticism. If this sounds appealing to you in any way, dont hesitate to take the course. Every single lecture, every single section, every single reading provided an interesting insight into the minds of two Russian geniuses. However, be warned: weekly reading assignments tended to be extensive and the focus of the course sometimes shifted away from moral inquiry in the fiction of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky, analyzing instead the literary style and composition of this fiction. Both facets have their merits, but if youre looking for a highly philosophical ethical reasoning class in which you debate morality each week, you might be better served elsewhere. If you want to read Tolstoy and Dostoevsky and - as a bonus - take away some ideas based on their views of morality, take ER 28 and dont look back.
Weir is a great lecturer--very funny and likable.  You have two options: commit to reading all of the texts thoroughly and don't attend every lecture, or skim all of the texts and attend every lecture.  I took the second approach, and I'm very happy with the results.  I learned a lot, I enjoyed the coursework, and I'm sad that Weir's lectures are over.  If you're good at lit, this is a pretty harmless way to fulfill ER and get to read masterpieces in the meantime.
Even though there was a lot of reading that required quite a bit of time, I really enjoyed this course. I thought Professor Weir was a great lecturer, and it was great to read some of the great Russian novels of all time.
Great works of literature, not very much actual discussion on ethics in regards to your own life, although you can definitely draw from the works you read on your own and you end up thinking a bit about it from time to time.
It's a bit of workthe readings are not too long, but substantial, and the midterm and final papers long due to the lack of examsbut it's a well-taught, well-run, very rewarding course on great material. The pace through the long texts is slow, which is quite nice since it allows the lectures to spend time on them.
Try to keep up with the reading but if you can't, don't go to lecture. That time would be better spent catching up with the novels.
Some of the content may be unsettling, but I can guarantee that this is one of the most interesting options available for the GenEd requirement at Harvard. Particularly for those with some express interest in Russian literature, the course load, as involved as it is, will not feel like work at all. Not to mention, Professor Weir is clearly very invested in the subject matter. His enthusiasm and sense of humor counterbalance the bleakness of his authors perfectly, and make for a fun classroom environment.
This is a fantastic class if you are interested in Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. It is always exciting and thought-provoking to read the works of these two masterful authors. Also, Professor Weir is a great teacher and makes the class fun and relaxed. As long as you stay on top of the reading, this is a very enjoyable class!
This is an awesome and relatively chill course. Only two papers, no midterm or exams. Lecture is amazing because Professor Weir is engaging, entertaining, and makes discussion interesting. I will warn you, though, that the readings are LONG. Anna Karenina and The Brothers Karamozov in one semester, both about 700 pages long, plus additional readings. It can be a struggle, but you can get through it.
This is not an ethical reasoning courseit doesn't count to just read the definition of utilitarianism out loud in class for The Rebellion, and then ask the class what it liked/disliked about the Grand Inquisitor as a character.  We barely skimmed the surface of these massive ethical frameworks and questions.  I think this would be an excellent gen-ed in culture/belief or aesthetic interpretationit was just incredibly lacking in rigorous ethical considerations.  I think the novels themselves actually offer a lot more content on moral questions than Prof. Weir or the TFs were capable of appreciating or really doing justice to, as literary/Slavic scholars.  E.g. for an ethical reasoning class, it seems odd to reserve 30% of each assignment's grade to writing style/grammar.  I would much rather have gotten comments primarily on my critical thinking and ability to grapple with the philosophical and practical implications of the text.  Sections had some great discussions, but again, more literary/aesthetic than ethical/philosophical.  Excellent reading material obviously, really interesting context and literary analysis.  Reading Tolstoy and Dostoevsky with an entire class and faculty team was a pretty great experience.  Just know that this is essentially a literature class spiced up with some lightly-treated ethical questions.
The course was a novel way of looking at the works of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. Indeed, even people who have read both authors should think about taking this class, to understand Tolstoy and Dostoevsky's works on an ethical rather than just an artistic plane.
It's fine but it's so much reading and honestly Prof. Weir is kinda lame and annoying and like a buncha gen eds section is a bunch of kids trying to get participation points. Alex did his best tho. Most of the time.
If you enjoy long Russian novels this is the best context in which to read them. Professor Weir is very engaging and makes these topics interesting and accessible.
Professor Weir and the content were the highlight of the class.  Lectures were all pretty engaging and I remember being fascinated with how much extra content and interpretation one could squeeze out of a couple of pages.  I'm in STEM and I was pleasantly surprised with the rigor of analysis - definitely came away with a newfound respect for humanities.  There is a lot to really think about in these novels, and it opens the door for enjoying much of Russian literature on a much more fundamental level.Highly recommended! You'll get some great discussions and it's not too much work!
Good Class!
The concentration on two authors and two major novels makes it very possible to do the reading and also make interesting comparisons between the works. Really interesting way to think about moral questions regarding responsibility, God, free will, while also enjoying the beauty of Russian writing. Very engaging lectures.
This class has a lot of reading, and while it may be possible to get through class without doing the reading, it really would not be worth it. The literature is great, so if you're going to take the class commit to reading it all.
I had always wanted to read Tolstoy and Dostoevsky but had never had the chance or time to. Although keeping up with the readings is very very difficult, it is very very rewarding to do so. The books and short stories are all good and the lectures/sections really make the course, especially if you've done the reading. Section with Alex was also really rewarding. It's always a cool experience to be able to hear what your classmates think about different ideas and seeing how they present what they think - helps to make you a better thinker yourself!
right section leader, like tullock, will make this class great. one like i had made this class boring as hell
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  You should absolutely take it!
Don't think this is a painless way to fulfill MR/ER as I thought it was. It's easy, but potentially very painful!
This course is both an ethics course and a lit analysis course, which is a good thing. The lectures are fascinating and the professor leads discussions within the lecture incredibly well. It's a lot of reading, though, and not the kind you can skim or just not do. At least not if you actually care about "the works of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky."
Understand how to write literature papers. This class is a literature class.
Great intro to Russian authors, very manageable workload, fun professor.
This class offers a great opportunity to read interesting and thought-provoking novels by some of the greatest writers in history, but it involves a lot of reading and requires a good amount of time (probably much more than most people want to dedicate to a Gen Ed course).
Be careful if you have no background in ethics or philosophy and have never taken a literature or English course at the college level. I'm a sophomore who fits that criteria and found the class, particularly discussion in section, very difficult for a Gen Ed. The lectures and the novels are great so take it if you want to read some Russian literature and are up for a challenge.
This is no ordinary Ethical Reasoning class! ADULTERY! MURDER! SCANDAL! GOSSIP! Discuss it all in the context of TWO GREAT RUSSIAN AUTHORS with quite honestly one of the coolest professors on campus--all in ER 28. (And though it's probably just me, it's well worth mentioning that I came out of this class feeling like a more ethical human being.)
Take ityou'll get interesting things to read, and learn some new ideas and develop other new ideas yourself.
Only enroll in this class if you are actually eager to read thick Russian novels. Maybe not the best class for you if you are only after a core/gen-ed requirement. The paper assignments are not bad, but the reading load is somewhat difficult to stay on top of. The professor and teaching staff were enthusiastic and interesting.
The works are very interesting and lectures are very good.  However, be prepared for a lot of reading.
Lecture is very dry and often unfocused or highly specific, and although the novels a great, the class probably isn't worth the pain.
Tell Professor Weir to prepare for class.
Be careful. It's possibly a very bad class if you grow disinterested. It's not a literature class.
I think this class has potential, but as it is right now I don't think I would really recommend it. I think most students were torn over it, and if you do decide to take it, just be sure that you really are interested in Tolstoy and Dostoevsky's works. The class lacks structure, and lectures were initially pretty amazing, but not so much later on. I personally enjoyed the Tolstoy component of the class more than that Dostoevsky part. Grading on the essays was also rather strict, so you can cruise through lectures and whatnot, but don't expect the best grades on assignments.
The course needs to be focused and central themes need to be identified, lectures felt a bit disorganized, just touching on some aspects of the novels without focus.
I would recommend this for someone who enjoys literature courses, and would rather take such a course instead of another focusing more directly on ethics for the Gen Ed requirement.
Do the work for the class, even if it becomes apparently clear you don't have to; the benefit is immeasurably larger than you might at first presume.
If you're a humanities person who needs to fulfill Ethical Reasoning, this class looks like a great fit... but honestly, I was underwhelmed. Though the reading is great, the lectures were unimpressive and I started losing interest in keeping up with the readings. Section isn't riveting, either. And though the course is a gen ed, the essay grading was harsh. The class is fine, but there are many other courses that probably teach the books in a much more interesting fashion.
Figure out what your TFs grading style is early enough in the course.  Do the readings with a pen in hand.
It was a good idea, using Russian novels to explore issues of morality, but the teaching of the course needs to be changed to reflect that. Some of the Dostoevsky lectures were hard to follow and I think the course lacked structure. Not a bad option if you don't want to read dry theory to fulfill a moral reasoning core, but it wasn't as good as I had hoped.
Great class. Prof Weir is really engaging and makes the readings really accessible. Section can get a little wacky, but overall it's a great way to get so much out of novels that are difficult and amazing. It gives you tools to then read other works. It's overall a great course.
This is a great way to fulfill a Gen Ed.  The novels you read are classic examples of Russian Literature, and the class itself comes off much more as a lit class than an ethics class.  Be ready to do a lot of reading however.  Average of about 40 pages per night.
Read EVERYTHING even if you think you won't like it, the discussions are always interesting and you'll be mad at yourself for getting behind
Tons of reading. Don't take this class unless you are willing to put in the time and commit to these books, or you will be floundering along trying to keep up for the whole semester. More interesting than other Ethical Reasoning classes, though, especially for people who are into literature.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard based on the lectures and course materials alone. It is the best way I can imagine fulfilling a Core or Gen Ed.
This is a very enjoyable course, but very very reading heavy.The weekWhere else would you read tolstoy and dostoevsky so thoroughly
Great way to read "Anna Karenina" and "Brother Karamazov
Everyone that took Justice was so jealous of my taking this class. It's absolutely the best way to fulfill a requirement, and I would take this course even without that. Great professor and teaching fellows, good discussions
Professor Weir made lectures great, but beware: sections are miserable and drag on forever if you didn't read and/or not particularly obsessed with Russian literature.
Do the reading and do the essays. If you can pull that off you'll be fine.
don't get serge as your tf
Professor Weir is so awesome! All of his lectures were spectacular. You don't want to skip them. Keep up with your readings. It's really easy to fall behind then have to read 500 pages in a day-and that sucks. You have weekly response papers but I'm not really sure how they're graded. There are two big papers-midterm and final. It's an ethical reasoning course so think about the moral dilemmas and such that the characters in the novels face. All in all, it's a wonderful wonderful course and I would definitely recommend you take it.
Great readings and lectures! Overall, a fabulous way to knock out this core, though it really is more of a literature class in terms of the way we approached the works in discussion. That was fine by me, though.
Justin Weir is amazing! You will actually enjoy reading these books because the pace isn't ridiculously fast, but don't get behind!
It's very rewarding if you can keep up with the readings, but be aware that it's actually a significant workload.
It's a LOT of reading but I'd still take it over Justice!
Excellent class. Enthusiastic lectures, and a perspective on ethical reasoning that I found much less dry than the bulk of ER courses. Just be prepared to do the reading, which ends up being about 100-200 fairly dense pages per week.
I loved it, because it counts for MR/ER but is basically an English class, which is just what I was looking for. But if you don't want to do a fair amount of reading, this really isn't for you.
I could not have asked for a better reading list.  However, if you are looking for a true ethical reasoning class, this may not be the best option; the class focuses much more on standard literary analysis and tends to veer away from the ethical reasoning component of the class.
This class is a fun, fairly easy way to fulfill Gen Ed/Core, with a good professor and great reading.
This class was fantastic. Lectures were amazing, and, as Professor Weir said in class, there isn't really a better way to spend a semester than reading two of the most incredible novels ever written.
Enjoyable, but a lot of work for a core. You have to do all the readings to do well (they're good readings, though).
Good reading material, lectures and sections are weak, not really a literature course. Still, considering the miserable state of the moral reasoning core, a good choice.
I took this course thinking it would be an Ethical Reasoning course with a literature bent. Although the readings are very interesting, the structure of the course is too frustrating to justify recommending it. Students are expected to write about and discuss ethics with no solid review of it, and papers were generally a pain to get through. With the uneven grading in the course, you never knew what to expect (or what your TF expected). For those looking for an alternative to the typical Ethical Reasoning courses (e.g. Justice), I'd suggest to keep shopping.
Professor Weir is a great lecturer, never boring, and I felt like I learned a lot through the lectures - you don't really have to go because of how the grading is set up, but I am happy I never missed a lecture. Amazing books that you will really end up knowing well if you make the effort, and you get a great introduction to philosophers like Kant and Schopenhauer through the novels. However, section sometimes seemed like a different class - very abstract and philosophical, and having never studied philosophy before I sometimes felt unprepared and out of my element.
The reading materials were great (if you love Russian literature). The course requirements are super manageable, but you don't really get a sense of how you're doing throughout the course.
If you're a busy person like me, it may be a long time until you are motivated to read these books on your free time. You definitely will not regret taking time to read these two books, and the professor and TF's give you a lot of informative background about the authors and their contemporaries while you read. It's the best way to read these two books, if you've ever thought about it.
The books are long but fantastic. Weir is a good lecturer even if he ends up rambling on one topic and doesn't finish what he has to say. Great way to fulfill ethical and moral reasoning if you don't want to be stuck in Justice/take a philosophy class and you get to read great literature.
Anna Karenina and Brothers Karamazov are great. If you need an ethical reasoning, there are far worse ways to spend it than reading these.
Easy core- fun reading.
This is a phenomenal course, both for those new to Russian literature and to those well acquainted with it.  I came into the course having read some of the texts before, and I am glad to say I've learned so much more about them.  This course will empower you to examine the works of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky in the context of the philosophical debates that defined them, as well as expand your understanding and application of their moral themes.
It's a great way to fulfill the moral/ethical reasoning requirement by basically taking a literature class and reading some incredible novels.
Take this class if you are interested in literature. It's more like alit class instead of a moral reasoning core. Weir doesn't engage in literary analysis in the lecture but since the texts are all fictional he nevertheless goes around literary analysis all the time- which is fun. It's the best alternative to Justice. And make sure Alex Groce is your TF. He's great.
This course wasn't an ethics course but it gives you a chance to read some canonical Russian literature.
Insightful and useful lectures but I'd warn you that it's not  a typical Ethical or Moral Reasoning course.
I really enjoyed this course! Professor Weir is a terrific lecturer, and if you like Russian literature you will definitely enjoy this course.
Best course to take if you're a fan of either Tolstoy or Dostoevsky's novels!
It is a great opportunity to think about sometimes tedious Russian masterpieces within an ethical context.  I highly recommend the course!
I did not learn much from this course that I could not learn by simply reading the literature discussed
The reading is paced well, but may become overwhelming... unless you have a sincere and devoted passion for Russian texts and the overly ornate prose of Dostoevsky and Tolstoy's era, you may find this class rather challenging. It is, however, a great way to get yourself acquainted with some renowned works of literature.
In general, moral reasoning is a terrible and annoying Gen Ed category, so this is the best of the worst in my opinion. I'm glad I took the class because it seems like it was the best way for me to fulfill moral reasoning, but as a course itself, it was one of my least favorites at Harvard.
If you don't already know the basics of Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy, you're going to have a really hard time in this course, especially in section. That said, the lectures are entertaining and really enhance your reading of the books. The course has the potential to be a great class, but it is set back by its inability to translate a literature course into a general education course.
It was a great class but the grading was tough on the papers- especially for a gen ed
The course material is very interesting, but be ready to read a lot!
Really fascinating class - it was never a chore to do the reading. I came away with an altered way of looking at things and great enthusiasm for Russian literature.
