I literally thought about the MEANING OF LIFE in this class every week - that's about as general an education as it gets. And I loved it. Fascinating material, diverse opinions from a collection of great thinkers. Prof Risse is approachable and knowledgeable. Klemen Jaklic is THE MAN - insanely helpful and just a fun guy to talk to. Section was a blast every week and really got me thinking about my motivations in life and how I confronted both my present life and the idea of death. With the dearth of good ER classes in Harvard's curriculum, this is a class you need to fit into your schedule however you can. It's a good one, and I've heard some of the horror stories about the other ER classes friends have taken. Sandel is great but this class will genuinely make you question your perspective on life in a truly meaningful way. A must-take.
This class was enjoyable, with interesting readings and a meaningful topic. Papers required significant thought, but overall the course was easy. The teaching staff were responsive, friendly, and worked well to help students with the material.
The class is hard, but the professor and TAs are great.
Probably the best ER out there - Prof. Risse really does try to engage the class and these are definitely topics everyone has an opinion on. Wide array of viewpoints, so what you think will most likely be covered.
Take this class!
This is a damn great course. Literally, maybe, the best course I've taken so far. The readings are dope and not that heavy. It's easy and very engaging. What more do you want out of an ER course?
This class allows you to explore the meaning of life by examining and analyzing the beliefs and opinions of famous philosophers and popular faiths. It is very informative and gives you a great perspective that allows you to formulate your own beliefs regarding the meaning of life.
This course is an absolute gem. You never have to go to lecture, the slides have all the information you need, and the three papers are actually super interesting to write. If you need an elective or ER gen ed - take this course.
This class is great for students interested in the meaning of life. Some of the philosophers' works can get confusing, but Professor Risse goes over the arguments well in lecture.
3 papers and final exam course. Papers are graded very subjectively and it is hard to find what constitutes an A range paper.
Absolutely amazing course.  I took it thinking that it was the best option for the Ethics and Reasoning Gen Ed and quickly discovered that it was the best option for a class that semester period.  This course really taught me how to engage with some of the questions that I had been purposefully dodging and I feel that I have grown as a person. I particularly knew this course had an impact when some friends and II sat down to study for the exam and started delving far beyond the material simply because it spoke to us on a deeper level.
Be  prepared for challenging essays but overall a very worthwhile course.
Really amazing class if you're interested in thinking about life's biggest questions. It pushes you to evaluate why you are pursuing certain life goals, and gives you a language to qualify these goals. Workload is reasonable, and lectures are very interesting. You can totally get by if you go to all the lectures and take good notes, without doing the readings. Papers are interesting thought experiments.
This is a course I'd recommend for those who actually enjoy learning about philosophers and their different ideas. If you're not into those things, this class might be a little difficult with regards to reading rather hard-to-read readings, getting through the concepts, etc.
This course is a very interesting way to explore philosophical texts have to do with finding individual significance in life. This class does a good job of tackling this huge topic by investigating many different kinds of approaches to this concept and seeing how they interrelate.
This class is very interesting and low-stress. I highly recommend.
This class is excellent. The courseload is extremely manageable, and the readings are very interesting and thought-provoking. The class offers a multitude of perspectives and potential answers to the "big question."
This is a really good course to think about some of the more important questions of personal mortality and personal significance in your life. It is a welcome change of pace to be able to think about these issues, especially if you aren't able to take these sorts of classes during your time here.
The course gives a great holistic approach to all the ways philosophers have thought about the meaning of life, death, and the afterlife. A really great gen ed to help you slow down and think about your place.
That this class! You won't regret it.
SO interesting and a very fair, manageable workload. The perfect GenEd.
Super painless ER gen ed. 3 papers (5 pages each), no midterm, super fair final exam with plenty of material to help you prep.
easy honestly
I had very little philosophy background before I took this class, but I left every lecture with a new perspective on how I should lead my life going forward. Great, interesting way to fulfill ER!
This class is very interesting if you like to think about humanity's place in the world/universe. It's thought provoking and changes your perspective on a lot of things. The readings are comprehensive and if you pay attention in section, the essays are manageable.
Do the readings. Professor Risse is comprehensive in lectures, but the readings are very engaging and having done them will help you immensely when the papers/final comes around.
N/A
I went hugely back and forth on my opinions about this class throughout the semester, but I think I've settled on the opinion that it was reasonably good. At the very least, it's a relatively painless way to knock out an ER requirement. For me, I entered this course with a hatred of philosophy; at times during the course, that opinion was certainly reinforced (brace yourselves for unit three), but overall, I'd say I left with an interest in, and maybe even some respect for, the subject. I probably couldn't have expected anything better on that point.For the concrete details: three paper prompts were just fine, relatively easy but interesting topics to think about. Lecture was similarly fine, I appreciate Prof. Risse's sense of humor. Section can really make or break the course; try your hardest to get a section with Klemen.
You can get a lot out of this class if you put serious effort into it. That said, if you're actually seriously interested in the topic, just find the reading list on the syllabus and read the materials on your own.Lectures are usually uninteresting and feel like a waste of time. Nobody does the readings for section, so that also feels like a waste of time. The assignments and the feedback you get are nice though.Grading is harder than most gen. ed. classes. There's a lot of readings each week, but it doesn't seem to matter whether you actually do them.
This class thought me both how to formulate effective arguments and broaden my mind and horizons of thought. Do not be afraid that it is an ER class with a philosophy background. The arguments are well picked and interesting and the class discussions are well-structured so that they provide a chance for everyone to participate and engage. My sections were extremely satisfying.
Very interesting course -- encourages you to discover classic works in an appropriate and doable way, while exploring an extremely relevant topic.
This is a super interesting, not too hard class that helps you learn about philosophy in a not too painful way
Really great gen ed.  Learn a lot of cool things and how to think logically and rigorously.  Would highly reccomend
This class was not worth taking. The philosophic perspective is narrowed to older, Western, white, men. With the range of philosophy in the world - and a topic as intriguing as the meaning of life - this was a shame. The readings were quite repetitive and dull. So, if there is a more interesting class, take it.Some people think it is an easy A, but there is little to no help on assignments. No examples of what a good paper should be, either. It was not an easy A for me. Beware.
It was a very interesting course and makes you think about life in a different way
This is a pretty easy ER gen ed. Not very demanding in terms of work. You don't have to do all the readings and the papers aren't that difficult either. You get as much out of it as you put into it. Learned some cool stuff and enjoyed it overall.
Great introductory course to philosophy. I found myself discussing questions posed in section with friends at dinner.
This class was overall a pretty good gen ed--easy enough, with varied readings.  My main reservation is its tendency to ask for dry, overly technical writing, but that might be a qualm with the entire philosophy department rather than this class specifically.
Very good low commitment class. Not an easy A, but definitely a worthwhile course to take.
I still don't know why this is 'Ethical Reasoning,' it is a PHILOSOPHY CLASS that does not deal with ethics or reasoning. This course is an easy way to get a good grade and knock off a gen-ed, but at the end of the semester you'll find yourself wondering what true gains you made and if it was worth it to waste a course of you Harvard education on this class. It is a very good way to engage in philosophy, but you'll probably spend more time in other classes.
This course is very well taught with very manageable workload. It has contributed to my toolbox of how I can go about my life -- in a very abstract, philosophical way. It has challenged my belief and I believe I have become more aware of the beliefs behind my actions.
Take this class. It will challenge your thinking with the least amount of actual effort. Readings are sometimes a lot to take in, but actual assignments are easy. Professor Risse provides a study guide as well. They really want to help you get an A, it's definitely more about engaging the student in other thinking. Highly recommend, take this class!
This course is a decidedly non-theistic exploration of the meaning of life, though that's not to say that theism is ignored. Professor Risse is an articulate lecturer and many of the readings are thought-provoking. Ultimately, you won't leave the course with a witty one-line response to the question "What is the meaning of life?" but you will have a framework for thinking about individual significance.
This class will make you think about the way you view the world, in the most enjoyable way. A lot of people complain about gen eds being boring or useless, but this class is neither (in fact, it is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard). Whatever else you're considering, make room in your schedule and take this class.
While not a huge time commitment, this course will cause you to think about things in a new way and reanalyze many parts of your life. It is personally beneficial to stay on top of the readings, which will take less than 2 hours per week. The readings are actually quite interesting and thought provoking.
As a senior thesis writer, I hoped to find a Gen Ed that was not too work-heavy, yet still intellectually engaging.  Since ER 18 was not offered this fall, I was recommended this, ER 38.I'm definitely glad I took it--not life changing if you've already read social theory or philosophy before. But the scope and organization of the class is great, assignments are well thought out, and the final exam is very, very, very straightforward and simple. I believe section will make or break your experience.  I had Ben as my section leader and he was awesome!  If you have a section where everyone talks, most folks seem to have done the readings, and the section leader has set up good questions, it's a really fun class to take.
It may seems super abstract, but in reality a lot of the theories are very concrete. It isn't a very intense class. Only 3 papers and a final. Lowest you can get on papers is a B-. That being said it did really change the way I think. You won't find the meaning of your life, but if you really think about the topics of the class you will start to reanalyze what is important to you.
I'm a science major and thought there was no way I could enjoy a philosophy gen ed. ER 38 proved me wrong.
This class is fascinating and provides you with the materials to think more critically about your decisions in life in the greater context of living a personally satisfying life.
A great introduction to philosophy, but make sure to do the readings because that's how you get the most out of the class. Don't be afraid to contribute during section either - a quiet section is the worst.
This class was really great. I took it as a Gen Ed, and I can't recommend it more highly--if you have any interest in learning how to write analytically or think about philosophy, this is the class for you. The papers are hard but they give you good resources to write them. To be honest, this class should be a requirement instead of Expos. Most importantly, if you can get Klemen as your TF (assuming he teaches again), do so. He's amazing. Take this class, it really is great.
Absolutely try it out, especially as a general education requirement, as it will certainly open your mind to some of the explicit questions inherent to our lives, if not have you reconsider your concentration.
As painless as ER gets. I was interested in this class because of the reading list, but eventually I realized that it's sort of futile to think about the meaning of life in such broad terms. Read from that what you will.
Really harsh grading on papers and they require time to work on
This class is not hard, but not as easy as it may seem. You don't have to regularly do the readings, but do be prepared to put a fair amount of energy into writing the papers as they are graded somewhat harshly. Lectures and readings can get very boring at times, but going to section allows you to understand the main points. This class is a good intro philosophy class, but it may feel a bit awkward at first writing in the philosophy style if you haven't done so before.
I really enjoyed this course. The readings are great (philosophers are so sassy) and I like Prof Risse's lectures. There are 3 5-6 page essays which are super doable, but personally I was a bit frustrated that they were all so basic.
Too many people don't shop or take this class because they are either intimidated or amused by the course title. It is not a misleading title; the course fulfills its promise of discussing the meaning of life. People may think that exploring nineteenth and twentieth century texts would not shed any light on the actual meaning of life or what they hope to find from a class on the subject, but they would be surprised and wrong. Those that walk away with the class disappointed with the material or finding it lacking in any way have not engaged with or thought about the ideas enough. The class is phenomenal; the lecturer is fantastic and passionate about both philosophy and teaching; I could not recommend a better way to simultaneously think about deep ideas about life and have an engaging way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement. Not many ETHRSON classes are truly enriching and enlightening, but this class is.
It is not very easy; rather, it is a gen ed that makes you think and do pretty strictly graded essays.
It's a great course and you will learn a lot, and many find this class to change the way they think about things. However, the papers kind of suck, and they are graded harshly and count for a lot. Which is unfair, considering how easy the class is on the outside. Be prepared to spend a lot of time catching up on material if you happen to zone out during lectures, which often happen. Papers are very difficult.
This class, although somewhat interesting, has a very boring lecture component. The sections are great for discussion but the lectures become quite monotonous. However, the papers are not difficult and the final exam was very easy if you studied the main concepts.
Great class, but could use clearer instruction on how exactly to write philosophy papers.
This course is fantastic. It teaches you many ways to engage with the deep philosophical question concerning our meaning in life. Very interesting.
This course, even if at times a bit superficial as it speeds through very varied schools of thought, provides an interesting overview to one of the most fundamental questions: what is a meaningful life, and how can one live one? It was especially timely for a senior like myself!
Don't be put off by the name of this class! This course is a great way to learn a lot of the fundamental ideas behind western philosophy in a unified way that feels almost like reading a story! The quest for the meaning of life will take you to all sorts of places, some weird and obscure, others giving you concrete practical advice on how to live a happy life. You'll have to think about how different philosophers' (and writers) ideas relate to one another, how they would argue for and against different positions, and how they influenced one another. Also, sections are a ton of fun, because you can discuss the ideas with your classmates - it makes for some really interesting conversations!I definitely recommend it - and don't worry about the reading too much - the way you are evaluated emphasizes the main concepts and how they interact, and not memorization of the readings!
Some of the readings are dense and you have to think hard about your essays, but with a decent amount of work this class is very rewarding and fascinating.
The meaning of life is chocolate (at least some think so).
Take it. The philosophy and the Professor are all really accessible and truly earnest in their goal of discussing the meaning of life with you. And that's what it is...a discussion. Because no one has the answer. It seems like a ridiculous premise for a class at first because we all joke about finding the meaning of life, but It truly does get you to think deeply in new ways about what it means to be alive and use your time well here on earth.
This class has fascinating material and sometimes has the ability to make you think quite deeply on certain issues. There is a lot of reading and sometimes the lectures and sections can be a drag.
It's easy. It's low-stress. There really aren't any good ER classes out there, and this is a fairly painless way to do it (three 6-page papers, generally small amounts of readings, a final). Don't get too excited about it, but it's nothing to dread.
Definitely not a lot of work. Some light readings every week (it's not even crucial to do them, to be honest). The papers are graded pretty harshly though, so definitely watch out for that. It's not a lot of work, but it's not going to be easy to get an A, so keep that in mind.
Do the readings at least once in a while. They're really rewarding often. Discuss them with friends.
This course is really great.  Don't expect to find an answer to the meaning of life, but overall it does broaden your perspectives regarding what it means to live meaningfully.  There aren't a ton of assignments, but the papers are more difficult than they appear.
really makes you take life into many perspectives
Lack of structure, difficult to follow with feedback, and just generally very vague.
This is an amazing course that deals with the question of what the meaning of life is. This class informs students of the many directions you can take to attempt to answer this question. While learning about many philosophers, you will be expected to understand each one's argument regarding the question, and it will be up to you to decide whether a philosopher's ideas and your idea can be reconciled.
This class was a fantastic senior spring class. Readings are enjoyable, but not completely necessary. Lectures are well explained, and you leave being able to have more developed conversations addressing the question "how are we to live?"
This class is extremely interesting and you can really engage yourself in the topics.
There's really no reason not to take this class. It's a relatively low workload, which allows you to really do all the readings and think about them. The themes of the course were really interesting, and it's not that difficult to grasp, even if you've never studied philosophy (the topics could definitely be hard and confusing, but the teaching staff makes them accessible and the questions on the final did not require understanding of the complicated and confusing stuff). Lecture can be kind of confusing...but it's basically a rehashing of the readings. You could probably go to the lectures and not do the readings, or do all the readings and not go to lecture, and be basically fine (but recorded lectures were not posted until reading period which was super annoying)  If you do both, this class will be a breeze.
This a really fascinating course that makes you think about really fun philosophical questions. Workload is totally fine, just readings and 3 short 5 page papers throughout the semester. Highly recommend for ER req!!
As far as ER classes go, this wasn't too bad. I don't know whether I would've taken this class if I didn't have to take an ER class, but mostly it was an enjoyable experience and you can apply some of the ideas to your own life.
This class was great! Even though I took it pass/fail I enjoyed every lecture and section because the material covered on its own is very interesting and fun to think about. Not just fun however, it could really make you think about life in different way if you really engage in the material and reflect on it.
The class is really meaningful. It can be very personally riveting and inspiring if you let it be--so there is an opportunity for more than just rote memorization of facts and texts if you can apply the philosophers' arguments to your own life, past, present, and future.
This class can really force you to think deeper and see the bigger picture of life. I recommend greatly, especially for those who enjoy learning about how others think as well.
It is extremely easy but kind of boring unless you read every single reading (which might be advised). Definitely an interesting topic to discuss though
This course was interesting, but definitely the low of my semester. There were too many readings and the lectures weren't very interesting. Celine is a nice TF but the discussion was often disconnected and awkward and her feedback on papers didn't help me at all with improving.
This course gives a nice introduction to philosophy, and fulfills a Gen-Ed requirement, so it's definitely worth taking if you're interested. Some of the readings are a bit dry or long, but many of them are short or very interesting, so it evens out. This course also provides an introduction to philosophical writing, and really makes you think about different ideas such as connections, life, and death. I gained a new perspective on these topics, and I'm glad that I took the class because it helped me grow.
With a topic as abstract as "the meaning of life" this class does an impressive job of breaking down that question and thoroughly exploring it from a philosophical perspective. If you're someone who finds him/herself thinking deeply about these questions on your own time, definitely take this class. It'll help you solidify the jumbled thoughts in your mind and articulate your personal definition of the meaning of life. Also Professor Risse is a great lecturer.
This class was surprisingly boring. Only three short (5-6p) essays and a final exam so the work load is very manageable, but do not expect it to be life changing.
This course definitely goes on my short list of horrible classes I have taken at Harvard.  Lectures and boring, difficult to understand, and slides are sloppily put together usually with typos and with no clear structure.  Assignments do reinforce your understanding of the material, but they are unfairly graded and expectations for assignments are not clearly laid out.  The material is presented in a very one sided way; only really considering the meaning of life from an atheist western perspective.  The are better ER classes out there.
Meaningless. If you enjoy philosophy or learning even a little bit, don't take this class.
There is only three papers and a final. The lowest grade you can get on a paper is a B-. Totally take this class
Class does a great job of covering some of the most important and relevant arguments about the meaning of life and our fear of death. Not difficult at all. Very interesting.
Great class! Intro to philosophy, very applicable
This is a good class and it made me think a lot about the bigger questions about life. The essays were sometimes a struggle to write, but they always made me think and overall I'm glad I took the class!!
This class is very interesting and the workload is very manageable. I enjoyed all of the readings and the I enjoyed writing the essays (this is coming from a science concentrator). Professor Risse is a great lecturer too. I enjoyed the class and could safely call it my favorite gen ed I have taken so far.
This is a strong option for the ethical reasoning gen ed because it is engaging and not very difficult
This class can be really intimidating at first if you haven't done many humanities classes, especially if this is your first philosophy class. Even so, I would definitely recommend you to take the class. Philosophy is such a practical field in that it'll help you hone your thinking and make it more logical. It's also fascinating to learn about the progression of thought over time, and to listen to great arguments on both sides of fascinating issues.
It's a lot of reading, a lot of conflicting ideas, but in the end I would take this class. Listen to all the different voices and find the ideas that ring true for you.
This might sound like a trivial and perhaps 'meaningless' gen ed but it was a course I thoroughly enjoyed and would strongly recommend to fill the ER gen ed requirement. Take it, you won't regret it!
great introduction to philosophy class, lectures were interesting, discussions/debates in section were a lot of fun, essays were not too difficult, good way to fulfill ER
The class is very interesting, very well-taught, and not too cumbersome. This has been one of the better Gen Ed courses I've taken.
I would highly recommend this course to future students. In fact, I consider it to be one of the best and most rewarding courses I have ever taken in my life. The course title can be very misleading in the sense that it sounds cliched; however, Professor Risse does a phenomenal job dispelling that fear from the very first class and establishing the foundation for a very profound and powerful philosophical journey. The readings in the course are incredible and the course staff are so supportive. Beyond that, Professor Risse has an infectious optimism and energy and his lectures were often the highlights of my week. I will miss the course immensely next year.
This class definitely made me think. It was an excellent gen ed, as I feel like I actually got a lot out of  it--not only was it an interesting topic, but I learned how to write a philosophy paper and received helpful feedback. The lectures can be a little boring at times, but they're not bad. Section discussions are great. The TFs are understandable of your level of experience with philosophy and work with you a lot. Office hours were great as well. The class consisted of three papers and a final exam, and the final exam was not too difficult if you put the hours in to studying for it.
Lectures are alright (could be made more exciting), essays are varied (not always as sophisticated as one might hope for), readings are interesting and varied!
This class provides a great many perspectives on one of life's greatest questions. Along the way, you'll learn a lot about yourself, and life in general through an exploration of other philosophers. If you keep up with the reading and make use of office hours, you'll really enjoy the class.
Lectures were really interesting, but assignments were convoluted. Would not recommend.
There are some interesting readings but just like all other GenEds, this course end up being kind of terrible unless you're really genuinely interested in this class -- like genuinely enough that you would do these readings even if you weren't taking this class. Lectures and the professor kind of suck but what do you expect from a GenEd anyways...
Very thought-provoking arguments were read, but there was a lot of dabbling across many arguments and very little digging deep into specific arguments. Sections could sometimes be aimless discussion and banter between people holding opposing views rather than engaging discussion on the material
You now have comments to help you decide whether or not you should take this course.  My advice- take it.  Professor Risse did a phenomenal job structuring this course that will allow you to grapple with the most profound question of anyone's life.  The topic is so relevant and intriguing that I discussed the content outside of class with my friends more than any other class I've ever taken here.
It was a fantastic course, Risse is an amazing lecturer, and the TFs were great. The material is probably not what you expect, but engaging and very thought-provoking nonetheless. But, be prepared to read like you've never read before for a gen-ed. All in all, totally worth it though in my opinion, as it never kept me bored at least, and this class made me feel what I wanted to feel about education since I've gotten here.
This was a great, useful, and compelling Gen Ed. During an otherwise hectic semester, this class had a manageable work load and reading load. I had no prior experience in philosophy, and this provided a nice introduction and very compelling readings - some, foremost philosophical works, and some, more compartmentalized. At no point did I feel unprepared or overwhelmed. Writing three essays was a bit much, but each essay was fairly short and not too involved. I would highly recommend this course as an ER Gen Ed. Lectures were great, Professor Risse is smart, funny, and interesting, and he selected great TFs.
This course is absolutely fantastic to fulfill ER. I had been dreading to fill out the ER, but not only did I learn the basics of philosophy and writing in this area, but I feel I learned a great deal of logical train of thought, argumentation, and what others think the meaning of life may be! You can put as much work in as need be, I ended doing most of the readings thoroughly just for enjoyment (some were way too long, but not necessary).
This course provides an overview of philosophy as it relates to the meaning of life and the influence of death. This was an excellent course; it was well-taught with engaging sections and interesting material. I took it as a ethical reasoning gen ed; I would highly recommend this class to any interesting in philosophy or looking for a good ethical reasoning course.
This class is too romantic  it's both unstructured and there's no guidance in thinking about any of these lofty questions from the TFs. You won't have a better understanding of the meaning of liferather, you'll just learn a bunch of similar, tautological, arguments with respect to this question. The lectures are incredibly difficult to follow because the professor is so unprepared and just rambles for an hour, and his slides are littered with typos. The section component of the class is also bad, and you always walk away unsatisfied. Take Chinese Philosophy.
This course is fun and a great gen-ed!
I loved this class. I learned a lot and it was not very stressful. I occasionally did the readings, but generally attending the lectures is enough to pass the final. Also Professor Risse is a great lecturer and so fun. You should take this.
A good class, a bit meta, but alas that is the nature of philosphy.
Give you a comprehensive understanding of philosophy on important topics.
Prof Risse takes a lot of time to prepare the material, so it's a good way to have nice way to get philosophical works regarding the meaning of life summarized and presented to you. Would recommend for ER requirement.
Professor Risse and TF Doug Kremm made this course very enjoyable for me.Good class to take to think about the bigger questions in life that we all find ourselves ask while here at Harvard.
The material was interesting, lectures were engaging, sections were great for discussion, essays allowed you to engage with specific arguments in more depth, and a study guide was provided for the exam. This is a well-structured course that isn't too difficult. Philosophers featured are mostly old, dead white men like in most ER classes, but they're generally more recent old dead white men than many other classes - 18th, 19th, and 20th century.
Take if you have open mind about meaning of life.
If you are curious about life, how life can have meaning, or not have meaning. You should take this course. Even if you aren't interested in the meaning of life, this course will make you aware of the many different views on life.
Very clear and simple presentation of tricky subject matter. Lively lectures, great section, fun papers, easy exam.
It's not what you may expect when you read the description, but still worth taking. And don't be too discouraged if your first essay isn't up to standards - it may take some work to understand what is expected in a philosophy paper.
Really great class. Section is great, and Risse is a pretty good lecturer. Overall, one of the best gen ed options at Harvard.
A handful of the readings could have replaced the entire class. Easy, good lectures, harmless. Not particularly life-changing. (No, they don't tell you the meaning of life.)
