This course is not a very good ethical reasoning course. The material could be interesting but at the end all you do is talk about how the spheres interact and the implications of those interactions which is somewhat boring. Also the readings are too long and you aren't allowed to use your laptop. The lectures are also boring because the professor will say the same thing over and over for the entire hour without really reaching a point. The grading expectations and the amount of work are also too much for a class that is only a gen ed.
If you are interested in South Asian culture and want to learn more, you will be disappointed by this class. If you want to try something new and are looking for a fun elective, do not take this class. Professors and especially TF Sophia are great, but the expectations are simply too extreme for a gen ed course. I remain mystified by both Indian philosophy and the grading policy in this course -- there was no discernible relationship between effort put into the papers and the grades I received. Course has so much potential -- the epics in particular were so much fun to read.  It is such a shame that this class avoided the incredibly rich context surrounding the texts. I would avoid until they work out the kinks.
Professors Patil and Shankar are incredibly interesting and very invested in the course. Lectures were really interesting, and I especially enjoyed hearing their two perspectives. The readings for the class were great - a really diverse blend of classical Indian texts ranging from rule books to epics to poems. The material and structure of the course are both pretty unique, making it a different and enjoyable experience.
This course gave me the most of any of the Hindu-studies at Harvard.
This class is the only class I've taken that really seems to apply to my own life. It gives you a really interesting glimpse into the world of Classical India, and introduces you to some amazing literature, but ultimately the focus is on building ethical tools for your own life. I absolutely loved the class.
I took this class looking for an ER gen ed, and it has been one of my favorite at Harvard. I am an economics concentrator and have never taken a class like this before. It was engaging, interesting, and one of the only classes I feel like I took something significant out of. The readings are fascinating stories, and the assignments are engaging. The professors care about every student in a way no professor ever has at Harvard. They knew everyone in the entire class's names after the second week of class, and were always available and interested to talk to each student. I can't recommend this class highly enough!
Easily one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard--the teachers are extraordinary and the readings are a lot of fun. If you have any interest in South Asia, it's definitely worth taking. This said, make sure you actually do the readings for the class--it won't be nearly as valuable an experience if you don't.
You should know what you are getting into with this course. It is not an easy gen ed. The professors expect a lot from students, and it is more like an intense philosophy seminar with lots of readings and very high grading standards. That being said, you can learn so much, especially from the four aims of life the course identifies (law, wealth, pleasure, detachment), as well as from the professors. I loved the material, but the course requires SO much mental effort.
This course requires critical thinking, don't come in expecting your ideas to be perfect coming in because the profs have an incredible grasp of the material and they will challenge your thinking. This class is an intellectual challenge but you get to explore some great texts definitely one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
This is the BEST gen ed I've taken at Harvard!! Highly recommend it to everyone! You will learn so much and can apply the material to your own life, in a fun and engaging way!! Take this class!!!!
TAKE THIS COURSE! You will read texts that are rich and nuanced, and you will wrangle with some deep questions that are useful for life. The good life compass is hard to get right, and this course will put you on the direction of understanding it. Sophia was an amazing TF!!!!!
You really need to buy in. its a lot of work
It's a great course.
The grading is harsh....like seriously. Hard work doesn't necessarily pay off. You may put in the hours, do the reading, go to OH and still not do well. Otherwise, you get to read the Kamasutra, which was interesting and of course learn a lot about SE Asian epics.
This was definitely a first-year class, and not yet fully developed. It is really interesting material- learning about the spheres of activity in ancient Indian thought and thinking about how those concepts apply to our own lives. The professors expect a lot, though, and hold you to very high standards, which is both good and bad. It was a little disorganized at times, but hopefully that will be remedied in its second year.
This was my favorite course of my senior spring. It may have been the first time it was offered but it blew my expectations for an Ethical Reasoning gen ed out of the water. I was so impressed by the teaching staff (who knew my name from week one and went out of their way to get to know students on a personal level) and by the thoroughness and organization of the course itself. It changed the way I view the world and made me want to further explore Indian culture!! You definitely get out of this class what you put into it. It's well worth the investment.
I don't really appreciate professors telling me I can't bring my laptop to section and that I have to print out the readings, even if every single one of them is made available to us online. Maybe that doesn't matter to you, but it absolutely ticked me off.
This course was an unrealistic amount of work followed by a lot of scolding from the teaching staff. The amount of work required to be successful in this course was not properly conveyed and at times the professors were not available.I honestly have no idea where I stand in the class. I am unsure if t was worth my time.
