Professors Koerner and Greenblatt are experts in their fields, and the history of the Adam and Eve story is comprehensively covered.
The material is interesting and the lectures are engaging, but the course seems to be made unnecessarily difficult for the sake of avoiding being an "easy gen ed." Only take it if you're really interested in the content.
Despite the heaving reading load, the paper assignments are extremely fair and doable, involving primarily close reading both text and image without much reference to other readings.
This class is super interesting, and you get a taste of both English and HAA. However, it's a lot of work. The TFs and professors expect you to place this class as a priority, and this class is super fast-paced so it's definitely a struggle to stay on top of readings and even lectures.
This is an interesting course. If you know nothing about art history it can be difficult, but you will definitely improve throughout the duration of the class. Start preparing for the final well in advance or its scope may be overwhelming.
This class has a lot of great material, and Professor Koerner is a delight to listen to. However, be warned that this class requires a lot out of you for a gen-ed class! I also found Professor Greenblatt's lectures extremely disjointed. There are also a lot of annoying "section kids" (probably due to the nature of the class)
The concept of this class is absolutely interesting, and Prof. Greenblatt and Prof. Koerner are wonderful teachers, very engaging and obviously scholars.  The teaching staff in general is great.  However, the beginning of the class can be misleadingly easy because the readings get much longer and the work adds up.  Just be warned that this class has an unbelievable bulk of material, and you might find it harder than anticipated, as I did.
It is way too much work for a gen ed and the general topic was not very interesting, if someone (for some strange reason) really wanted to read Paradise Lost in a class, I would recommend just taking an English class that covers it
This course seems most designed for those with religious backgrounds. Also, there are a lot of secondary readings that we do not discuss in class, but that show up on the final, so don't take this course if you already have a heavy reading load. That being said, I learned a lot and encountered texts and ideas that I would never have found anywhere else.
Absolutely brilliant professors, they are very knowledgeable and are brilliant lecturers. I could sit and listen to them talk about anything for hours. You also get to interact with some very cool historical and artistic material in section. It is a very, very interesting topic, especially if you grew up in the tradition. Be prepared to question your beliefs!  That being said, the readings were rather dense and difficult and there were far too many. They were very interesting, but a little too much of a good thing. There were ones that were necessary, but then others that were given that didn't seem as important and took up valuable time. Only a handful of the readings were talked about in lecture and were tested on. But all of the readings were dense and required active work to do, so it seems that if the list had been cut down to the essentials, energy could've been better allocated to an in depth understanding of the most important readings.
Expansive with lengthy readings, possibly gets a little tangential. Overall, fascinating material and a great interdisciplinary course
Unless you are very, very interested in Biblical interpretation (but not even especially religious), DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. Readings are overly long and repetitive, and lectures are unbearably dull. No actual ethical reasoning gets done. Papers are short but the exam is strange and memorization-based rather than rooted in Ethical Reasoning. THE ONE UPSIDE to this course is how well it integrates and utilizes the Harvard Art Museums, but unless you are great at stomaching bad readings, the museum is something you could check out on your own.
This class is a model example of what a great Gen Ed can look like. I would never have thought to take a class that used the story of Adam and Eve to look at ethical reasoning but I got so much out of the class. I learned so much about analyzing literature and pieces of art. I'm so glad I was exposed to Art History as it was something I never thought to do but I now find it so interesting. The professors are great and I always want to go to the lectures because they are fantastic. My TF was extraordinary and I felt like I learned so much from going to Section and Lecture and doing the assignments. Overall it was just a phenomenal class.
For someone with limited interest/experience in philosophy-type courses, this is probably the most painless way to fulfill ER. Lectures are a bit disjointed b/n the art and literature segments--and rather than a variety of texts the latter is almost exclusively Paradise Lost. At some points we seemed to lose the plot i.e. Adam and Eve and just go into long histories of painters. All this aside--like I said, comparatively good way to fulfill ER.
Great art history moments, pretty boring overall though.
This course is not an easy gen-ed. The TFs grade the course as if it is an upperclass seminar. Koerner and Greenblatt are great lecturers but the course is terribly organized.
Incredible class, one of the best I've taken at Harvard. The subject matter is really so interesting and changes your perspective on a lot of things, and the lectures are really great. Professors Greenblatt and Koener are incredibly smart and engaging and I enjoyed every moment of this course.
This is an incredible class with two stars of the Humanities at Harvard. The TFs are committed and smart, and will give you helpful feedback. It is definitely one of the best classes I took during my time at Harvard. I would recommend taking this class as an upperclassmen, only because this is a class that's more helpful in growing and making connections with what you already know.
Prof. Greenblatt and Prof. Koerner are both incredible lecturers, and this course is worthy of taking just for the exposure to the two of them. The course does go through several subjects in pursuit of an ER curriculum, but I thoroughly enjoyed the material I learned from this experience.
This course is a great way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning, especially for people who are not that into intense philosophy. It introduces many philosophical and ethical concerns, but keeps discussion of these issues to the concrete ways in which they are represented in art and literature, rather than becoming too abstract and vague. Also, Both Koerner and Greenblatt are amazing lecturers and lecture was always fascinating. I learned so much more in this course than I ever expected I could from a class so narrowly focused on just one story!!
It takes up a lot of time for what it is.
This course is an interesting way to fulfill the GenEd requirement, but it is kind of all over the place. Content centers on Paradise Lost and Renaissance Art (particularly Neatherlandish art and German art), so if these topics are interesting to you, you will enjoy the course. The work required of you isn't too demanding (short weekly blog posts, 3 short papers, and a final exam). Lecture attendance is key to doing well, and lectures can be slow sometimes--Greenblatt, for example, often ended up reading length passages from Paradise Lost and not giving too much interpretation or analysis, and this got dry. Koerner's lectures were pretty interesting, but slightly redundant at times. Honestly, I enjoyed reading sections of his book that related to the works studied over his lectures. Sections at Houghton, Adolphus Busch Hall and the Harvard Art Museums were great, but I imagine this experience also depends on who your TF is (I had Ruthie, who is an art history scholar and made sessions with art very interesting!). Overall, it's not too painful of a way to fulfill the GenEd, but it isn't super engaging.
As a English person, I knew that I would love Professor Greenblatt teaching Paradise Lost and other texts (and he even exceeded expectations), but I was unsure if I would enjoy the Art History material. Professor Koerner, however, is an amazing lecturer and gave really accessible and fascinating overviews of some of the greatest artists of the Renaissance, along with some really neat background on images in Judaism and Christianity. This really helped develop in me a greater interest and appreciation for art than I ever had before. The interdisciplinary nature of this course really makes it possible to make some really neat connections between art and literature. If you are either an Art History or Literature person, it will reinforce what you love about your concentration while introducing you to what is wonderful about the other. The material is fascinating and introduces you to artistic and intellectual ideas of the earlier Western tradition while also implicitly forcing you to examine your own. I cannot recommend this Ged Ed highly enough.
The material is sometimes a bit dense
If you're into art history, go for it. If not, try to find another gen ed. It wasn't too hard, but it also wasn't too interesting and the final was brutal.
I took this course mostly to read Paradise Lost and get a strong foundation to better understand it. I loved Paradise Lost, and I don't think I would have gotten a fraction of the understanding of the text that I got without taking this course. That being said, the reading workload was a bit excessive, and the organization of the course could be clearer.
This course is a fascinating History of Art and Architecture/Ethical Reasoning mashup, but I would not recommend taking it if you do not like long, heavy readings, or material that tends to be heavy on the sexual content. The syllabus leads you to understand that many different ethical questions will be addressed evenly and consistently throughout the course. However, I found that these questions were perhaps touched on, but the main gist of the course revolved around discussions of sex, sexuality, and eroticism in art and literature. Definitely not what I was expecting, although the artwork discussed and analyzed was beautiful and many of the readings were fascinating.
I thinks this is one of the all-time great courses offered here at Harvard!  The engagement with art and literature around one of the great stories is eye-opening and Milton is more brilliant than I could have imagined.
Not too much work, can get by without doing the readings, but theoretically challenging.
The lecturers are great, but there's a lot of reading. Some are interesting, others are dry and really hard to get through. The subject material is really interesting, though, and you learn a lot
seminal information
This really was just an AMAZING course! If you at all enjoy art history, philosophy, or English TAKE this class! The readings, although a lot, were manageable and you'll really take away a lot from this course! If anything, my ability to analyze art and english has improved! The lectures are consistently interesting and your understanding of the story of Adam and Eve really does evolve and gain depth! A wonderful way to fill the gen ed for ER and as a really great class! Do yourself a favor!
Love this class so much!  The lecturers are truly incredible and going to class is a delight.  As a math and science person I really appreciated how accessible they made the art and literature we looked at.
The exam was absolutely ridiculous. The rest of the class was great and not too hard but for the exam you had to memorize about 120 paintings and all the readings like word for word. The test included extremely vague passages hat we were expected to identify with one sentence given. A waste of time memorizing all that info.
There is a lot of reading in this class, but honestly none of them are necessary for the papers. I did the readings for the first week and that was about it. They were super interesting, just kind of dry in a way and there were just too many of them. It's not realistically manageable with other classes. This course used to be classified under History of Art and Architecture. It should have stayed under that classification. Ethical reasoning was not really discussed. It was focused primarily on the different forms of art and the artists that created them throughout history.
This class will present you with the opportunity to look at a lot of great art and read a lot of interesting texts, but other than that, I'm not really sure what else I got out of it.
With three papers, one in-class essay, and a final exam, this course could seem like a bit much for a Gen Ed, but it definitely has a lot to offer. There are a lot of readings (but they aren't absolutely necessary) and section could be improved/better integrated. However, the material is interesting and the combination of literature and art makes it so that you don't have to be doing one thing the entire semester.
This class is so interesting in its content, but disorganized. If there is a new head TF next year, perhaps the course will be better organized. Otherwise, you should totally take this course!
I would recommend this as one of the better options for the ethical reasoning requirement, especially if you are looking for something that is different than Justice. The combination of art and English components of the course under the umbrella of Adam and Eve/ethical reasoning was interesting, and I was glad to finally read Paradise Lost. Be aware the secondary readings are tested on the final exam, which means you will need to keep up with the somewhat dense reading list to do well.
This class focuses on interesting material.  The art history lectures were incredibly interesting and I enjoyed learning about paradise lost.  However, I often found the connection between the two disciplines to be tenuous, and the reading was dense.  The papers were interesting and not exceedingly difficult and the final was very fair if you had kept up with the course.
I'm only a freshman, but this is the worst class I have ever taken (at the college, or in my previous 12 years of schooling). It was extremely unorganized, the lectures were usually painstaking to sit through (besides the art lectures, those were sometimes intriguing when it was actually organized around a certain artist/painting and not all over the place).  The sections are completely random (as in no section does the same thing..there's no baseline, its just kind of like TF's just do whatever they want).  You are never told what is really expected of you (what readings - which there are an unreal amount of - are necessary, what details/information should be known, etc.).  The essays are actually very interesting/engaging prompts, and seeing as they are the main assignments, they course material/assignments are fine. Thats the sad part. The course is full of a ton of really really interesting material and subject matter (thats why I never dropped it..I was hoping it would turn around for the better..but it didn't).  It has a ton of potential. I wish I would have taken it in a few semesters when the professors actually have a grasp on what they want the course to be. I would tell you to take the class for those reasons, but unless the professors really revamp the entire course/organize it well, its not worth it at ALL.  Really unfortunate that I had to waste an entire semester on this class, especially because it actually is very engaging material. Just presented terribly. I sincerely hope the professors reorganize the course and others get the chance to take what COULD BE one of their favorite classes. For shame, is all I'll say, for shame.
Brutal class.  I am sad.
Take this course if you like the duality of art and literature.  Great professors, and received great feedback on papers.  Interesting topic and loved the field trips to the MFA.
This course is a nice option for those looking to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement or who want to read Paradise Lost in great depth. Although the overall goals of the course, and the cohesion of literature and art history within it were sometimes unclear, there is not too much reading and both professors are engaging lecturers.
This class has a lot of potential but in its first year it was a mess. Lectures, readings, and sections were not cohesive or supplementary. There was no narrative to the course. Lectures did not always connect. Most readings had little or nothing to do with what was being taught for the week. For this course to be worth recommending it needs to be considerably re-organized. The material is interesting but the way it is presented takes away from that completely.
The readings will help with the essays, and the images in lecture will help you to prepare for the exam.
Koerner is amazing, Greenblatt's lectures are dry and difficult
Take this class if you're a history/epic poetry/art geek. It's very good, but you need to enjoy reading Paradise Lost and looking at lots of paintings of Adam and Eve. Go to lecture, as that's the best part (besides the great field trips). Supplementary readings (those other than Paradise Lost/Gilgamesh) aren't really necessary (until the final), so don't bother if you don't have time.
This course is not a simple course by any means. If you're looking for an easy Ethical Reasoning course, it may be wise to look elsewhere. However, if you're looking for a moderately-difficult Ethical Reasoning course, one that is engaging and actually interests you, take this class. Both professors are very brilliant, and the readings are dense yet rewarding - I find that I can actually understand them and synthesize the material. Section, for me, has been a lovely experience, the typical college seminar where you question your beliefs and grapple with life's biggest questions. Also, if you know nothing about the Bible as I did, take this class. It will help you understand organized religion a little bit better.
It is a wonderful class regardless of your religion and I highly recommend it.
I think it'll be better next year after they restructure it, at times this year it was awkward transitioning between two lectures.  A interesting Gen-Ed about images depicting Adam and Eve, good way to fill an A&I or ER.
There is a lot of reading, a lot.
It's a lot of reading, but it is a great way to get an Ethical Reasoning done while focusing in on something really interesting.
The class is very art historical and very much in the style of an English department class.  Be prepared for he sort of work that entails.
It was more work than I anticipated, but I thought the material was interesting!
A great chance to sit hear two brilliant professors say brilliant things for two hours a week. Combined focus on art and literature kept anything from getting stale. The course was a bit unfocused at first but hit its stride when we finally started reading Paradise Lost. It seemed like the lack of focus at the beginning was due to the newness of the course, and I would imagine they'll have it figured out by the next time around!
Took this with gritted teeth because I needed to fulfill my ER requirement, and I thought, having grown up in a Christian home, the subject will be familiar and easy. Nope. This class has everything a class can have--weekly responses, midterm, three papers, final exam, field trips. Lectures were definitely interesting, reading Paradise Lost was definitely something I enjoyed and would not have had a chance to do outside the class, but the amount of work was just too much. It was also a little intimidating because I was the only science concentrator in my section, which meant I had to put up with a lot of people talking about art history, religion, iambic pentameter, and whatnot. The final exam was also just ridiculous--they made us memorize dates/creators of images, identify quotes from the many, many, many readings that we had, etc. Wouldn't recommend it to people who are not up to doing a lot of reading every week.
This is an excellent and interdisciplinary Ethical Reasoning course for students who are interested in literature and art history and may not have much experience with philosophy.  Also, it is worth taking this course simply to see Professor Greenblatt narrate plays in Old English.  The work load primarily consists of three papers (four if you count the midterm in-class essay) with prompts broad enough that they will allow you to explore the moral questions from lectures and readings that most intrigue you.  The teaching staff is very supportive, and field trips to the Museum of Fine Arts to view some of the works we discuss are a fun bonus.
It's an interesting way to fulfill ER, though the ER component is a little forced. The relationships between the texts and the HAA component are also forced at times, so it will seem a bit haphazard. A lot of memorization is required. All in all you learn a lot though, especially if you haven't had a religious background.
The various components of this class are interesting, but it lacks cohesion and a common set of themes/works.
After every lecture we applauded as it would have been disrespectful not to do so. It is as if every lecture has a guest expert speaker come in. Professor Greenblatt and Koerner are brilliant and excellent lecturers. It was a pleasure going to class.
Should be a much better class once first-year kinks and logistical issues are worked out.
There are a lot of readings, but wonderful professors that give really interesting lectures.
Be prepared to do a LOT of reading.
Amazing opportunity to take a class with two of the best professors at Harvard. Great lectures, I loved both the art history side and the literature side of things. And the best possible way to satisfy an ethical reasoning- maybe not as much ethical reasoning as there is questioning of historical religious texts and how to interpret them, but still really interesting exploration of this topic.
This was an interesting course. I liked the art history combination with english. However, the amount of reading is absurd. It's completely unnecessary and you can get by without doing most of it. If you do all the readings, it is an extremely difficult workload but if you don't, you can still do well in the class and you will enjoy it more. Also, the section response posts are irritating. Hopefully they get rid of those for the future. I'd recommend it though, it's a chill way to get ER out of the way if you don't like philosophy.
For humanities students who, like me, have been dreading fulfilling the Ethical Reasoning requirement, this course is a wonderful way to engage with philosophical concepts through art and literature. Similarly, I can imagine that the course would be a nice way to get thinking about art for students primarily interested in literature or vice versa. For students with no background in art or literature, it seems like it might be grueling, as the lectures were often quite fast-paced. I loved the art history lecturesbut then art is my area of interest. Greenblatt's lectures were often uninteresting, for me, and I didn't love the literary texts on the syllabus. However, overall I found the course to be a pretty engaging way in to ER. That said, were it not for the Gen Ed component of this course, I likely would have opted for a course taught purely by Koernera truly brilliant teacher and art historian who I can imagine would be even more wonderful solo.
Art and art history with deep implications for the trajectory of western philosophy and morality.
This class was interesting, and a great way to fulfill ER, but it's not interesting. I didn't feel the need to do all the readings and the lectures felt more geared towards the auditors than towards the students.
This class was harder than I thought it would be, and even though my grade won't be great, it was a rewarding experience.
only take this class if it becomes more organized
It is a great blend of English and Art History!!
This class is really a great experience and the teaching staff is fantastic. I would point out that it felt, at times, like an English class about Paradise Lost more than a gen-ed class about Adam and Eve.
This is a fantastic course, both for students pursuing a concentration in HAA, Literature, English, or a related field, and for those mildly interested in art and literature and need to fulfill their Ethical Reasoning requirement. Its TFs are personable and lead excellent sections, the readings are (admittedly, sometimes a lot, but) well-chosen, and the lectures are amazing, and even though the professors are famous, they're totally willing to talk to you outside of class.
Greenblatt and Koerner are absolutely passionate and knowledgeable about the material covered in the course, which ranges from Paradise Lost to the Epic of Gilgamesh to Hieronymus Bosch to Hans Baldung Grien. Their enthusiasm sometimes outstrips the abilities of the class, though, and this gen ed often requires hundreds of pages of reading, plus critical evaluation of paintings covered in lecture, per week. If you have the time and interest to cover the story of the origins of man and this story's interaction with Western history, it really is a fascinating topic, but as a casual class participant, I often felt lost and overwhelmed by the volume of required readings, and often scrambled to prepare for exams and write essays.
Overall a painless way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement. The material itself is very interesting and meeting Professor Greenblatt and Koerner and having a conversation with them was a blast! The course may seem like too much work given that it has a midterm, 3 papers, and a final exam; however, the papers are all short (900, 900, 1200 words, respectively) and none of them require research. They are all your own analyses and the TFs are more than happy to guide you on the assignment if you have never written about a painting. That being said, this course very much feels more like an art history course than an ethical reasoning course. The midterm is an in class essay and you are provided with a sample midterm the day before. If you prepare for the sample essay, you'll be more than prepared for the midterm. That being said, although you can get away with not doing the readings and still do well on the midterm and essays, the final exam has quotes you must identify from the readings (title, author, significance) and image identifications (title, artist, date, significance). So, MAKE SURE YOU GO TO LECTURES IF YOU WANT TO DO WELL ON THE FINAL and TAKE GOOD NOTES.
Very interesting class. Helped me get a good grasp of representations of creation and Adam and Eve, most of the class has an emphasis on Paradise Lost and Northern Renaissance art.
Perhaps this should be obvious, but be prepared for a lot of nudity and discussions about sexual topics.  Also, the readings are quite important for the final exam.
You don't need to do the reading, but be prepared for an objective exam, even though the course focused on subjective interpretation!
Don't take classes the first year they are offered
Harder than your average Gen Ed, but very interesting
The readings can be a little much, sometimes, but lectures are great and Paradise Lost is a lot of fun. The art analysis was my favorite part of the class. Not much work, except during essay weeks.
This was one of my favourite classes at Harvard. If you are interested and motivated you can ace this class and get so much out of it. you will read Milton's Paradise Lost with Professor Greenblatt, which is a real treat, and Professor Koerner will introduce you to Durer, Bosch, Hans Holbien, Lucas Cranach and so forth. Any educated person should take this class!
This class is very disorganized and the combination of art history/english did not work well together. The grading was very harsh considering how haphazard and hard to follow the lectures were. The reading was long and dense and never reviewed, although it was ALL tested on the final. I would not recommend this class.
This is an interesting course with a very defined subject matter, but it isn't a super easy gen ed. It is much easier if you have a background with writing papers and actually attend the lectures. Not an easy-A gen ed.
This is the best way to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning requirement! The lectures are amazing, the readings are all interesting, and the sections employ a variety of different way through which to interact with the material such that you won't get bored. Just do yourself a favor and take this class; you won't regret it!
