This class is 100% worth the hype. The lectures are incredible, important and relevant. I'm so glad I took this course.
This is undoubtedly the best way to fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement. The class gives you a few different ways to think about how to value humans and markets, but is soundly rooted in the practical, not the theoretical. It is fast passed and thought provoking.
This class is one of the mind-expanding, carefully planned courses at Harvard that when we graduate people will talk and connect about with former students and at reunions. Sandel is an incredible lecturer and cares about what students think, and sections provide a great foundation of critical discussion.
This is a good class, and those who haven't had a lot of exposure to ethics will benefit most from it (but not only them). Especially if you secretly (or openly) think philosophy is just a lot of blah blah that nobody really needs, this course could challenge some of your beliefs. Professor Sandel is smart, kind, and an excellent moderator, which makes the frequent discussions in lecture actually interesting. And the papers are fun to write!
TAKE THIS COURSE. Especially if you still need an ER credit, this one's a no brainer. Michael Sandel could teach a course on toe fungus and make it the greatest thing you'd ever heard, but it helps that here he doesn't have to: the material is just as phenomenal as the professor.
decent course. entertaining for what its worth.
Make sure to focus especially on the readings for the papers you're writing; the readings for other topics are interesting, but largely superfluous.
The papers in this class are short, but graded pretty harshly, Overall the course is enjoyable and you learn good information, but the grading on the papers can be very arbitrary.
Do the readings! The section made this course enjoyable, and this wouldn't have been possible if the students didn't come in prepared.
a great class! really makes you reason about modern day issues that you likely care about and defend views from philosophical frameworks that may seem daunting at first but you will very quickly become acquainted with.
Interesting topics and engaging discussions in lecture and section
This class is excellent and a must-take.  The lectures are usually very interesting, although it sort of depends on which students stand up to speak.  A lot depends on who your section leader is as well, if you get placed in a bad section it could make for a very negative experience.
It's a hit-or-miss with your section. Given the liberal nature of the campus, liberal voices are embraced and legitimized. Will be difficult for social conservatives to defend themselves publicly.
This is a wonderful class. Professor Sandel is one of the best professors I have ever had. This class was one of the first classes that I talked about significantly outside the classroom, both to people in the class and people outside the class. I enjoyed it tremendously. It encouraged me to challenge my beliefs and think about why I think what I think.
The teaching fellows will ruin the course.
Whether you have no background and want to get a good overview over moral philosophy, or whether you want to engage with philosophers like Kant more deeply, this course offers a great platform. Would always do it again, offers interesting readings and examples, and a unique teaching atmosphere.
The course covers current controversial topics that are well laid-out by Sandel, who is very knowledgeable in the subject matter.
This class helped me to conceive of money as a means of determining moral status in our society, rather than a simple facilitator of transactions. You will get the opportunity to read classical philosophers as well as consider modern issues.
Interesting course
Interesting subject matter. Engaging professor. Manageable work load. Fair grading. Cool guest lecture discussions. Would recommend this class.
This class is a great Gen Ed. I think it is one of the Gen Eds that most fulfills the goals of the Gen Ed program, and it does so in a really interesting, fun way. Professor Sandel is amazingly available for a well-known, tenured professor. You can tell he really enjoys teaching, and that makes the lectures that much more interesting. This course also makes for some fun political theory debate. Take it if you enjoy political theory.
This class is a fantastic way to introduce lay-persons to major philosophers in a way that is pertinent and applicable to our daily lives.
This is a great class. Sandel is a very effective lecturer and discussion leader. He can make a lecture with hundreds of students discussion-based, which is incredibly helpful. The topics you learn about and discuss are really, really interesting, and a lot of times, they are relevant and practical. Great course.
Sandel is a great lecturer and challenges students to think critically and analytically about ethical issues.
This is an incredible course. Every undergraduate should take this course. I loved the opportunity to engage with my peers in discussion about controversial issues. This class provides an opportunity to discuss issues of justice and to think critically about your own opinions and where they come from. The work-load is very reasonable and I was lucky to have an excellent TF as well.
This is a great class overall. I highly recommend going to office hours -- they are awesome.
You have to be very open minded. I know a lot of ec or math concentrators were very tempted to say that it simply is how it is. Force yourself to think like an ethical moralist!
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! One of Harvard's all-time most famous courses, Michael Sandel is an absolute philosophical genius. Lectures, despite packing the entire lower level of Sanders Theatre, were engaging, interesting, entertaining, and thought-provoking. He is an impeccable lecturer and pulls students into the lecture discussion to debate (and sometimes passionately argue). I took this class to fulfill my ethical reasoning requirement, but it has left me strongly considering a moral and political philosophy secondary, as an engineering concentrator!! We used classical arguments, such as the ideas of Aristotle and John Stuart Mill, to debate modern hot-button topics such as Uber surge pricing, environmental conservation, and employment discrimination, which actually clarified the discussion of the topics you usually only hear wacky politicians talking about. It is easily my favorite class to date. A word of advice: GO TO OFFICE HOURS. You will be ten feet away from one of the most famous professors ever, for an hour and a half, every week. Some weeks, I feel like a learned more at office hours than I did in other semester-long courses. Taking this class has been the best decision I have made at Harvard.
Sandel is pretty famous; he's been on TV, voted by people to be influential, and he's written some popular ethics books. He's a really good lecturer. The course itself is interesting. It's not particularly easy, having 4 essays to write over the course of the semester about topics that are somewhat to be precise and coherent about. Similarly, the course won't change anyone's mind about subjects. Free market libertarians will continue being free market libertarians. Kantians will continue being Kantians. Ultimately no one will voice a controversial opinion without having a defense that is difficult to tear down without making unsupported claims appealing to emotions and first principles. There's a satire 5 article about how Sandel teaches the course to lost souls who are going to work on Wall Street anyway. Satire has an interesting way of making us think about these issues. It's a good class. Take it if you have some time and need a gen ed credit. Otherwise, take it if you want to take a course with some friends and take a course with Sandel.
It is a good course, but if you really want to be challenged and get a lot out of your Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed, take another smaller course.
Great class, really makes you think about morality in markets. Don't expect Sandel to ever give you a definite answer.
It's all about the TF, if you have a hunch that your assigned TF is not great, I would recommend doing anything to switch into another section.
Its a giant class, but a fun, interesting, and not very stressful way to fill this gen ed. It's also pretty cool to take class with Michael Sandel.
Really based on who you get as a TF. I liked my TF but he was a pretty harsh grader. From what I heard, some TFs were easier graders but worse teachers/section leaders. Lectures get really repetitive and quite boring by the end. Would recommend if you really need to take the course, if not, spare yourself-- too much work & not worth it.
This class is great as long as you let yourself step outside of your moral comfort zone. Nobody should walk away from this class feeling like they know how to solve the world's problems. Rather, one should realize the complexities of any moral decision.
I loved the discussions that took place in this class. One warning: you will have to sit through some very outspoken individual's comments and be forced to cope with the fact that punching that individual would be immoral and against school rules.
A good, if not great course. Unlike other courses, it's not about indoctrination but rather critical thinking.
take it
This course will make you a better person.
The answer is yes - it lives up to the hype, Sandel lives up to his reputation, and this is indeed the newest iteration of the renowned "Justice". Yes, you can probably get the gist of it from the book he wrote on the same subject, but this course definitely pushes you to get a lot more in depth. And isn't that the case with every single class out there at Harvard? A crucial component to philosophy really is the discussion aspect - you can't just read and learn it by yourself as effectively as you would with others. So having a good section is crucial, and I fortunately had one myself. In short, you should take it. If you have the space for an elective, take it. If you enjoy writing about topics that you probably are vaguely interested about, take it. If you want a new framework to think about issues in this course and beyond, take it. This is the quintessential gen-ed, and you have a lot to gain from it if you're someone like me. Disclaimer: this won't consistently wow you with spectacular shows, like CS50. This also isn't an "experience" like CS50. But Sandel shines, in his own way - albeit a very different and contrasting one from other courses.
This is one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard
Be prepared to complete the readings and to write papers. This class is invaluable for forming ethical reasoning skills and discovering your own positions on difficult issues. I would highly recommend the class to all.
If you come into this class with an open mind, it will challenge you on the very core of your belief system. So many people I know changed their views in the course of this class, and nowhere else is "I really don't know, I'm so unsure" a suitable, and maybe desired, response to questions in section. I found it very fun, the workload very manageable, and the format of the class great. Also don't feel like you have to intensely read the philosophers' works in the readings. I tried, and that kind of writing goes straight over my head, and I ended up getting a much firmer grip on what they were actually saying by discussing it in section.
Critically challenges and questions market-based thinking through ethical frameworks. However, course assumes morality as the defining construct (aka doesn't question morality as a social construct).
Will definitely engage you, get you to think about issues in multifaceted ways, and have you excited to go to class!
Awesome class. Really made you think about a lot of controversial topics and questioned you about your ethical beliefs and moral compass. Sometimes lecture was boring and repetitive though.
This class is for anyone who wants to test their beliefs against those of their peers, teachers, and various philosophers. Although it can be challenging at times, due to the complexity of the topics discussed, this class is instrumental in improving students' writing and argumentative skills. Professor Sandel is a stand-out professor in the way he asks questions and engages his students in constant debate. It would be worth it to everyone to take one of Sandel's courses at least once during their college career.
This is a great ER gen ed! You can invest as little or as much as you want into doing the readings - there are a lot of readings, but you can get by without doing them because the core ideas are always talked about in lecture and section. The only hard part is the papers, but if you meet with your TF to flesh out your ideas then you'll be fine. The best part is that each lecture is always super interesting, and Sandel is able to teach you about the different philosophies of Aristotle, Kant, Bentham, etc. in an accessible way. Take this class!
If you want a class that incorporates morality while also learning about the free market, Sandel teaches a gem.
Incredibly interesting examples -- stuff you wouldn't normally consider but is very relevant in your day-to-day life. Readings enhance your knowledge of topical issues.
Take this class. It will challenge you to think about your own basis of judgment and how we should organize society in general. You may leave with more questions than answers, but it is worth it! The essays are not very difficult to write, but they do force you to logic through an argument on a question that you may not be completely sure of yourself. The section component can be great if you have a good TF, and if not, the readings are good anyway. One thing to note is that lecture can be pretty repetitive of the readings or of previous lectures at times.
Lecture and topics presented are interesting!
Prof. Sandel's class is one of the few classes that helps stimulate discussion hours after class is over. I spent many a lunch hour discussing the moral and ethical dilemmas presented to us by Prof. Sandel. Just an awesome class overall. Really loved it. Great way to start off my senior year.... with a quintessential Harvard course.
This course was disappointing. You essentially say the same thing for weeks on end. The particulars of the cases change, but the arguments stay the same. We could have covered the entire semester's worth of material in 4 weeks. Also, there is a mandatory attendance policy. Seems to me that lectures should just be better to incentivize students to go rather than forcing them with some attendance policy.
Great class. 'What Money Can't Buy' is a super useful book. You definitely need to take a Sandel class. I took it at first because I needed it for a gen-ed but it ended up being one of my favorite classes.
Be prepared to THINK
The course is great! Do the readings when you can, though you don't always have to. Additionally, make sure you talk to your peers about the questions you're answering/discussion in your essay. That's a great way to get useful feedback (these make counter-argument paragraphs!).
Great class - makes you think about contemporary issues that undergrads should be considering.  Professor Sandel is very approachable. Assignments are manageable and readings are usually short.  Would recommend if you're trying to fulfill your GenEd!
Think about whether or not you'd like to take this class. Then ask yourself, if you were to lottery into this class, how much would you be willing to sell that lottery ticket for? Should you be allowed to do that, or would that be coercion? If you enjoy that exercise, then you should take this class.
This is a great course to satisfy the Gov theory subfield requirement and ER at the same time. Lectures are great, Sandel is great, and the papers can be fun to write. That said, I think the experience really depends on which TF you get, but as long as you do the readings (which are actually interesting), show up to class, and think through the issues being discussed, the course can turn out to be very rewarding!
Easy class. Sandel is a great lecturer, and if you are willing to do the readings every week, you'll get a lot more out of it.  Definitely not that much work. Aside from the four optional papers, there's pretty much no work. I'd take this class if you want a relatively interesting and low commitment class.
It was more philosophical than I thought from the beginning, and one need to be able to think really philosophically to be able to really dig into the different topics. This also makes it slightly difficult to write the papers.
This class is fantastic for people with little to no prior experience with philosophy or economics. If you are experienced in both, then you might not learn very much. ER 39 is very easy to recommend if you are looking for an interesting and easy class.
Professor Sandel is an incredible lecturer. You absolutely must take one of his courses during your time at Harvard, regardless of your concentration.
The class is great. I looked forward to lecture every time they came around and found the topics of discussion to be engaging. I often discussed them outside of class. I got a lot out of the class.
The material covered in ER39 is fascinating, and Sandel is a wonderful lecturer. Unfortunately, he spends a fair amount of time in lecture seeking input from students who don't always have the most coherent positions. Section, unsurprisingly, has the potential to be similarly bogged down, and depends greatly on your set of people at the ability of the TF to control the discussion. In addition, I felt like more support could have been provided in terms of how to write an essay for this course. Overall, the course material is fantastic, and really pushes you, but some of the mechanics could be improved.
Taking a class with Sandel is an essential part of having the privilege of attending Harvard. He is a great lecturer and presents arguments in a way that really changes the way one thinks about things. The debates in class each week are great and all the questions raised are fascinating and relevant. Must take as an econ concentrator.
This course is absolutely fantastic. I was a bit intimidating when I first shopped it. It is a different teaching style that requires some getting used to. Please don't let this intimidation prevent you from taking this class. This should be a requirement for all students to take. It teaches one to engage critically on very interesting and relevant issues. It is a class that I would almost describe as fun. Take it with some friends and enjoy the intellectual bliss that results. Bravo to Professor Sandel on such an amazing course that can truly impact or shape others' views towards life.
Do the readings!
Take this class! This class helped me to articulate my previously fuzzy "gut feelings" about what is right and wrong in society. My TA and the papers really pushed me to learn to build logical arguments block by block. This class was a great complement to my economics secondary - I have a stronger sense now when it is more or less acceptable to put a price on something.
Incredibly interesting topic taught by an incredibly dynamic lecturer
This is a great class. It's an easy class. You will learn a lot, and it won't be painful nor will it fade into intellectual obscurity.
It requires you to think. Be ready to do so.
This course is a great option if you are looking for ER. It is heavily focused on philosophy, but it is incredibly interesting because of the topics. They are relevant to current events and this course is guaranteed to make you think outside of the box and challenge current policies.
Definitely worth taking. Pay attention in lecture and consider the questions being posed. The class forces students to engage and defend their viewpoints - an important exercise that doesn't happen nearly enough outside of the classroom.
ER39 is a relatively painless way to fulfill the ER requirement. Attendance is highly valued, so be sure to go to class. Seniors: Beware that the course staff will not make exceptions about attendance even when the class/section conflicts with a job interview.
This is the best possible ethical reasoning course I could have taken! Discussions are so interesting, focusing on issues that are current and debatable within political affiliations.
This is an amazing class! Professor Sandel is an amazing lecturer who is extremely engaging. His lectures were always extremely enjoyable and I found that all of the topics covered in class were really interesting. The course load was not overwhelming and attending lectures was always really fun.
This class addresses many interesting and controversial issues that society tends to ignore.  In addition, Professor Sandel and the TFs do an excellent job of presenting the issues without bias, allowing the students to utilize arguments in open debates.  Professor Sandel facilitates very lively and well-balanced debate.  Even if you have no interest in this type of class, I would wholeheartedly recommend it.
grading is tough and section is better than lecture
really need to think deeply if you are to succeed in this class
Very interesting and low difficulty.
It's a very interesting class, and you can put as much work as you want into it. Other than the four weeks when you write papers, you don't really have to do the readings.
It is an incredible class that forces you to think about moral gray areas in life
AMAZING CLASS! Sandel is a brilliant professor, and all of the work I did in this class was incredibly interesting and fun.
A gem of a gen ed. The assigned reading list may seem daunting, but the readings are often short articles summarizing a diversity of issues relating to a central ethical theme. Easy to read and not at all required for success in the course. You could easily only read those relevant to your chosen paper topics. Speaking of the papers, they are short, succinct and fun to write. An excellent exercise in moral reasoning and writing clear, logical arguments. Plus the topics are often interesting to reason through. All in all a fun, engaging course with more than enough fodder for discussion in or outside of section. I would highly recommend this for ER!
Really great class to think about markets, but also, this class will help you articulate better your stances on issues outside of the class.
I took this class because it seemed to be the most interesting option out of the ER GenEds. Although I can't say I enjoyed it as much as maybe some other students, I still would recommend taking it. MMM made me think about issues I had never pondered before, and section discussions and the papers really forced me to be able to reason behind why I believed something was right or wrong. In my opinion, sometimes the lectures were a little boring and hard to stay awake through, but I thought section was great. Amy is such a gem of a TF! She's so enthusiastic and understanding, and really believes that everyone has something to offer to the discussion. Probably one of the best things about this class compared to maybe other GenEds is the workload. You only have to write four papers a semester, and you can choose which weekly topics to write about, and therefore, when your papers are due. I really liked this flexibility, because it allowed me to schedule around my other classes assignments and also write about things that really interested me. Pretty good class overall!
Take this class for Sandel, not for the enjoyment.
I loved lecture and thought Prof Sandel was an inspiring teacher and educator and the issues that we discussed were interesting and thought provoking. It was a harder course than I expected as the essays were graded harshly and with a large focus on the philosophers and not our own opinions.
The workload is more than fair. If you are willing to put the time into the readings and go into the class with an open mind, you should come out a better, more informed citizen who is better suited to analyze some of societies largest, modern issues.
Enjoyable, loved listening the my peers debate.
This class is very interesting, but it is what you make of it. You can fake your way through sections and not pay attention during lecture, but if you choose to engage with the material and do the readings you will get a lot out of this class. A small number of people do all the talking during lectures, so feel free to join in if you don't like the way the discussion is going.
Amazing class-- looking forward to lecture and section every week. Very sad its over. Definitely take it.
Probably the most interesting Ethical Reasoning course. Essays can be graded harshly, but lectures are always intriguing.
TAKE THIS CLASS !!
I'm glad I took this class. I had never taken any kind of philosophy class before, and I liked this one quite a bit.
Money, Markets, and Morals is a quintessential Harvard class. Sandel facilitates philosophical debates within lecture, letting you work out your opinions to tricky questions. While the course does have a few limitations (massive lecture size), it's certainly a classic. It's not only a painless way to complete a gen ed, if you put time into it, it really does change your thinking by giving you Kant, Bentham, Mill and Aristotle as lenses with which you can view the view.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard so far - not too much work, but extremely engaging and relevant in a way that makes you completely reconsider what you thought to be moral/immoral. Excellent lecturing, section, and essays. Take this class  - it is what a Gen ed is supposed to be.
It's a good way to get your ER req out of the way.
It was a decent class, and a cool way to take a Sandel class and fulfill a Gen-ed, but didn't live up to the hype. Topics were interesting, but we rarely delved deep enough, and lectures got a bit repetitive after a while. Probably a better way to learn the material would be to read both Sandel's books, Justice and What Money Can't Buy, instead. Getting to experience the Socratic lecture style was pretty cool, but otherwise there's nothing extraordinary about the class. A good way to fill a Gen-ed, but not a must-take.
Fantastic class with great lectures and interesting material. Will definitely make you think more about how your actions affect others in a moral and ethical sense.
This is very much a classic college course. Famous professor, you get to share your opinions, study philosophy, apply it to modern moral quandaries--and it's done well. Take it!
While at times you may not be covering what you want to cover in class you'll soon realize that everything was put together so well, with a lot of attention to detail, that you'll appreciate every lecture.
An excellent course that broadened my understanding about the moral norms of societies. Professor Sandel has put together an excellent course, where you really learn to think critically about different practices. Go to sections as they are the core of this course.
Sandel is a brilliant lecturer, and it was a wonderful experience learning about moral dilemmas in markets. But sometimes we get too bogged down in the philosophers (Kant, Aristotle, etc.), which is VERY meticulous and boring.
Great opportunity to hear from a variety of perspectives!
This is a very interesting class and a fun and educational way to fill a gen ed course.
The course is fascinating and moves through a different real life topic each week. You get to pick which weeks/subjects you write essays about. There is a lot of assigned reading but it is not necessary to do all of it in order to fully engage in the class. Discussions are lively and often heated, so be prepared to develop and defend an opinion on some controversial topics you might be unfamiliar with.
It is an incredible course, one that you would regret not taking upon graduation.
This class is great for learning about some basic philosophical frameworks and how to apply them to real-world situations.  You write 4 essays during the year with 2 additional ones for the take-home final. Pretty interesting, but a little repetitive.
This class is incredible. It fosters a community in which you feel comfortable sharing your views, even if they are in the minority. I realized I was actually much more conservative in some ways than I had previously thought before and it is making me more interested in politics and it has made more open minded and accepting of views. This course is a true success of the general education program.
This class really taught me to think critically about moral issues!
I came into this class very excited, mainly because I'd seen several of Michael Sandel's videos from 'Justice' before. However, I realized that 'Money, Markets, Morals' were very similar in nature to Justice - so much so that, I kind of wish that I had just watched the videos (or audited the class/asked for a syllabus from a friend taking it), rather than use up an entire credit on the course. The conversations in section and the experience of writing the essays were good, but not compelling enough to have me heartily recommend the course. It's a low pressure class overall, so perhaps good for freshman fall, but things get redundant after two month in and my interest definitely waned.
This course is definitely great! Low workload, and genuinely interesting material. Sometimes gets repetitive but section is awesome, and do try to participate in class.
Do the readings. They're not long and will help you participate way more. While this may go without saying--an ethics class in which personal experience is already accounted for, knowing other viewpoints and experiences ahead of time can do wonders to develop your argument.
This course is fun, but not particularly educative if you have previous experience with moral philosophy. Sandel is also wrong about most class topics.
This is a very strong and organized course, with excellent readings and a top-notch professor. It is definitely solidly oriented toward Aristotle and could be more open to presenting counterarguments to Aristotle. Overall, the course does a nice job presenting and analyzing different contemporary ethical dilemmas and can really change your approach to figuring out what action or policy is 'right'.
This class has way too much work for a Gen Ed.  This can't be your 1 easy class a semester or you will fall behind.  Also Kant is super boring, and once we reached that part, it was no longer about shaping the students view.  It was what would Kant say here, not would you agree with Kant here, why/why not...
This course has probably been the best instance of a gen-ed course in my time at Harvard (I'm a senior) that has truly offered me the chance to learn about something that I would like to learn about, but that I otherwise wouldn't dedicate time to. It was cool to learn about philosophy, and this course was a fairly risk-free, low stress way to do so.
great
It's an easy class but put 100% effort in so that you get the most out of it
Take this class!! Sandel is a famous teacher and for a good reason. "Justice" may no longer exist, but "Money, Markets and Morals" touches on many of the same ideas. A great introduction to some classic philosophy, but put in the context of modern issues. You think you know what your opinion on something is, but then Sandel will go flip it on its head and show you a whole new side. Incredibly engaging, easy workload, and you'll come out of the class with a much better sense of ethical reasoning.
Good class - would definitely recommend it. Not too difficult but it makes you reconsider your notions of morality, practice public speaking (Sandel highly encourages speaking in class), and think about difficult issues. Overall a great Gen Ed though maybe not all that it is cracked up to be. If you've taken philosophy classes before do not take this class, it will be highly repetitive and easy.
This is one of those must-take classes at Harvard. Sandel's lecturing style is unlike any other - a well lead discussion that includes hundreds of students. Section is very engaging and genuinely fun to attend, and the multiple short essays are very manageable.
Sandel does a good job of explaining the world from base ethical principles
The material and lectures in this class are really interesting. It's a little tricky, because so much of your grade is dependent on section.
i.	This class is a classic GenEd class, and everything good and bad that comes with that. It is large, and sometimes easy to feel disengaged because of the size of the class. This is the sixth GenEd I am taking, but the first one to perfectly fulfill all the missions of the GenEd program as well; you truly do leave this course feeling better equipped to engage as a voter, public servant, and educated citizen. As all the Q reviews state, this course does tend to get a little repetitive, but it is their way of drilling the framework they teach into your head. The philosophical framework this course teaches in order to make moral and ethical decisions is slightly simplified from a philosophy class, but not so much so that you feel like the class is an easy/pointless GenEd. Also, the way attendance works, at least this year, is that they pick random days to have notecards out as you enter Sanders, and then you have to write your name on your card and turn it into your TF at the end of lecture (in order to guarantee people dont leave early). The no leaving early policy and no screen policy are strictly enforced, so if you need to leave early for any reason or use a screen for accommodations, make sure to speak with your TF in advance. As far as writing papers goes, go to office hours!! This class rewards a very specific kind of paper, and it is not one that you are used to writing, especially if you have no background in this kind of class. That being said, once you master the paper style, it becomes very easy to plug in your content to their framework. Similarly, make sure you write the bonus paper at the beginning of the semester so you have another opportunity to practice/learn their style of paper. There are things I would have done differently in this class, but overall, I would take it again and recommend it strongly.
Be okay with having your views challenged
A really great course! A lot of gain for not very much effort -- as long as you take the time to think through the essay questions.
Good way to knock off a gen ed.
This course is a decent way to fulfill the ER requirement. The concepts are simple enough and are generally thought-provoking and relevant. However, if you haven spent any time at all thinking about economic theory, political philosophy, utilitarianism, etc in your life prior to this course, you will find it to be very rudimentary and frustrating. Professor Sandel presents a very one-sided and shallow view of the topics at hand. He also tries to turn lecture into a discussion, which is unlikely to go well in Sanders theater with 400+ students in attendance; in practice it led to inane, absurd comments dominating lecture and simply wasting time. This makes sense: the people who have the quickest reactions and are likely to raise their hand in Sanders are unlikely to be the people who have given things the most thought. Also, just know that Kant is the worst, and you'll spend a lot of time on him. On the other hand, the essay topics were all interesting, the course load not demanding at all, and the course staff very responsive and talented.
Very interesting material that does a great job of introducing students to some of the pillars of moral thought. Application to modern topics is exciting and leads to enlightening conversations.
Be ware of different TFs. Some are really great and some are really not and will completely change your course experience.
A lot of people take this class to have an easy gen ed, but if you pay attention, it will change the way you see the world.
Professor Sandel makes you think about the world differently.
Sandel is really an amazing lecturer, and it's an awesome experience just being in his class. The videos made for class were entertaining and the discussion was usually interesting. Good class - wish the 4 papers were worth a little more of the grade, and the philosophers could have been a little better explained.
This class is an engaging treatment of the moral dillemmas of markets that weave into our everyday lives. Hopefully, when we are faced with such decisons, we understand our implications.
It's AWESOME
Probably one of my favorite classes that I've taken at Harvard.  Very cool topics, some of which you may have never even thought about as being controversial.  Sandel makes you think about things in a different way.  That being said your grade completely depends on your TF.  Sometimes hard to formulate your argument in a paper since they are so short, and the topics can be looked at in so many ways.  That being said I would still take the class regardless of it not being a gem.  May not necessarily be an easy A (for some), but you can get a B and be really intrigued by the discussions.
I have mixed feelings about this class. Lectures were unique in the sense that Sandel engaged with the audience much more than lecturers typically do - but I found that half the things my peers said to be absolutely inane. My section leader was good. I found the essays to be somewhat frustrating when I realized they weren't graded as easily as I thought a Gen Ed should be.
This course is a great introduction to moral philosophy for people not normally interested in the subject. Professor Sandel applies moral philosophy towards everyday market transactions, allowing you to question beliefs you may have taken for granted. Very interesting material, but a non-trivial workload.
It was a great pleasure to take this course, and I could not have been happier with my choice. Michael Sandel is beyond incredible in lectures, and the materials will challenge your perception of the world in a constructive way.
Sandel is a great lecturer that presents some very difficult issues in a very comprehensible light. My favorite Gen Ed class i've taken so far. Not quite a gem with the workload but still worth it because of what you gain from it.
Take it. I dare you.
I think this is a solid gen ed class that has very interesting subject matter. I think if you are looking to take an ethical reasoning that isn't too much work, this is the one to take. I took it with a very heavy course load (3 monster pset classes) and it went really well. The fact that you get to choose which weeks you write essays is a HUGE help. My main reservation is that the ideas can get repetitive midway through the course, and I think you get a very shallow representation of the philosophies presented.
This class is incredibly interesting and does a good job at breaking down complex moral questions. Professor Sandel delivers every lecture and makes them incredibly interactive. However, the class tends to be a bit repetitive. It seems as many lectures are hitting the exact same points and new arguments are not being advanced.
good class, not too much work, interesting, but not as good as some people say
If you want to address challenging moral issues that you normally avoid and don't really know why you think what you think about them, you should take this course. You'll be surprised at how you form your opinion after you've actually seen different sides, informed yourself about the issues and have really actively thought them through. Philosophy writing is different and getting it right might take some time but if you enjoy the material and if your TF is a really good teacher, it's absolutely worth every minute you put into this class.
It's extremely interesting material on the whole, but some lectures can be dry. Overall it's a good ER class from what I can tell, and I learned a lot.
This is a great class.  Professor Sandel is a great lecturer and debate facilitator.  The topics covered are fascinating.  A lot of class time is spent listening to what other students have to say.
This course is a great elective or gen-ed requirement. 4 essays for the entire semester and interesting lectures! Definitely shop it!
THIS CLASS IS DOPE. Incredible format of class and fun topics to think about.
It's probably an easier class to fulfill the ER GenEd AND the Gov. political theory requirement without taking Gov 10 or a class with Mansfield, but lectures are just really tedious. You will survive, but if there are other courses that seem more interesting take those. The class did help me understand philosophers like Mill, Bentham, Kant, and Aristotle, but to the point that these are the only ones I could really discuss.
The lectures are very interesting and it's not hard to do well in.
Not everyone is as open-minded as they claim.
It was such a great class.
great class, but your grade will be highly subjective depending on your TF
Walk in with an open mind, and your opinions will change. This class will completely change the way you think about tough issues that our country faces. You will learn to think about these issues from a much more critical and analytical framework, which is invaluable.
Michael Sandel's teaching style is a rare find at Harvard. I went into this class thinking I was going to find answers to ethical dilemmas, but I probably left with just more questions. This class makes you think.
A great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement.  While essays can be a pain and the grading can be on the harsh side they are generally easy to do so long as you just sit down and make yourself do them.  There are no exams and the topics discussed in class are super interesting.
Be prepared to write well structured papers and engage in thoughtful discussion on easily debatable topics. If you do the readings and participate in section, the papers are really easy to write.
This class is one of those classes that every student should take before they graduate Harvard. It teaches you to think so critically about an incredible range of issues and really articulate why you think something is right/wrong, and to defend your arguments with sound reasoning. It also just makes you aware of so many ethical and economic quandaries that exist in the world today.
This class is really fun!
The course is good, but not as easy as it is made to be.  The papers are graded harshly, and the final was very difficult.  It is possible to do well, but it's hard to do super well, and you must be prepared to put in the work.
I would definitely recommend this class as a GenEd. It doesn't have an overwhelming amount of work, but you still learn a tremendous amount and get to have really stimulating, interesting discussions every week.
Really informative and interesting! You'll find yourself relating to and developing an opinion about all the topics in class, and the readings and assignments definitely do their job in helping you develop those opinions!
If you want to think more deeply about moral issues as they relate to market/economic examples, then this is definitely the class for you. It raised a lot of questions, and didn't give a lot of answers, but Sandel's such an engaging lecturer you really won't mind. A lot of the class revolves around the same few considerations though, but the discussion still remains interesting because each topic we discuss brings a different aspect of consideration to the table. The workload is really light on non-essay weeks.
This is a course I would only recommend to someone who needs to be acquainted with basic ethics, in particular someone who is studying economics but has never problematized the assumption of neoclassical economic models. That said, if you already know basic ethics, do not take this class. The essays are un-stimulating, the bureaucracy unforgiving, and the lectures not worth the rest.
Very interesting, and essays are not very long. Not too much work while knocking out a Gen Ed
Great class if you enjoy debate, and have an open mind. Workload is light, but you get back what you put in so actually do the readings.
This is a great class for students interested in ethical philosophy or current events. It's not dry or theory-focused; it's very real world application based. Many of the issues that are talked about are ones that you've probably never heard of (Ex: Dwarf-tossing, rickshaw-pulling, selling citizenship, legalizing bribery, conscription with exceptions, etc.). Also, the workload is extremely low/flexible. Sandel's lectures are fantastic, and you get to pick which paper topics you want to write papers for. The readings aren't necessary, but they're pretty interesting if you want additional nuances.
I would highly recommend this class! Content and lecture format is really intriguing and Professor Sandel does a great job in facilitating the discussion in lecture.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Sandel made lectures so easy to attend, and the material that we cover is extremely relevant in terms of thinking about how you value things in your own life.
Seems like a fun class at first, but given that the vast majority of the course consists of you listening to the (sometimes poorly formulated) opinions of your peers, it can get wearisome. Four (or five) essays over the course of the semester is also actually more work than you'd imagine it to be, especially if you want to do all the legwork to write a thoughtful essay.
It's not as cool as it seems. Don't take it. The papers are a bitch every other week.
This class is really a good introduction into philosophy, as they don't assume knowledge of philosophers or their arguments, but rather help everyone understand them better. Furthermore, it's an interesting class with topics that relate to almost everyone's lives and that change every week, so it's less likely that you'll get bored. You also don't have to do much work every week, as you choose which topics you write about early in the course, and thus some weeks are incredibly relaxed with regard to this course (you only have to do the readings to then participate in section discussions, but otherwise don't have do much more if not writing that week's essay).
This was my favorite class this semester and definitely a class that I think everyone should take! The issues being discussed are so important and relevant, and they are all very interesting. Plus the class itself is very interesting, even though it is large Professor Sandel makes sure it feels discussion-based. Assessments are reasonable and are interesting to do, they really make you think! Take this class!!
This class will force you to examine critical social questions present everywhere, but don't expect to leave with a fully fleshed out understanding and answer to all questions-but that's the beauty of this course.
It is a great introductory class to moral philosophy.
This is a really painless way to fulfill ER. 4 1000 word essays are easy to write and very fairly graded if you maintain open communication with your TF. You learn a ton, and you also become a better reasoner. You'll find yourself talking about things discussed in this course with classmates and non-classmates
This class should be taken by every Economics concetrator - it starts your thinking about when economic tools are appropriate, or even broader, what the place of our science should be in society.
Sandel lacks basic empathy and believes his presence is a gift to mankind. Avoid at all costs
Great class.
Take this course because it offers a foundation for forming your own opinions about contemporary issues in society today. Professor Sandel is a fantastic lecturer and offers interesting insights into problems we think about everyday.
Great class, don't take the papers lightly. They are difficult.
This is a great class that will cause you to rethink what you consider to be moral.
Phenomenal course. Truly one of the best I've taken, if not the best. Take it if you can.
Really interesting course that makes you think about question your own ideas
This is a great class. Write outlines for your papers and bring to office hours to discuss with your TF. Gabe is an awesome TF! Lecture can be boring, but might be more interesting if you speak up.
Come in with an open mind
Staff are very unsympathetic with regards to attendance (I am a senior taking this as a gen ed, and I was not allowed to miss a section for an interview...) Additionally, I thought lectures were a bit disorganized and sort of circled around topics again and again without ever fully explaining the logic behind them. Would have appreciated some materials like a study guide, slides, textbook, literally anything.
The best class I have taken at Harvard. This class will completely change how you approach the moral complexities of the most difficult questions of our day. It is a great intro class, even for those without any theoretical or philosophical background.
This is a wonderful class, and I truly enjoyed attending every lecture and section because our discussions were always very interesting and engaging. The material in this course is unique and it's different from your typical philosophy or economics class. Er39 is a great philosophy class that embeds principles of economics into its material and encourages students to think critically about widely accepted market mechanisms.
Be prepared to have your thinking challenged as well as your GPA.
After 3 years of Harvard, I find this to be my favorite class and one that may have changed my concentration and plan of study if I had taken it earlier.
Not too bad for fulfilling your gen ed requirement. However, the essays could be graded fairly harshly, and attendance is checked randomly during some lectures.
Easy way to fulfill an ER gen ed.
This class is really interesting and rewarding and having Sandel as a professor is amazing.
This is an amazing class! Take it!
If you have a background in philosophy or ethics, the class might be a little slow and not tackle the "real" philosophical problems underlying the issues discussed.
Ethical reasoning at its finest. Regardless of the Gen Ed requirement - it is crucial to think about the ethical dilemmas and moral arguments that come up in this course. It would be absurd to go through Harvard without taking a class with Professor Sandel.
This class is really great and one that everyone should take before graduating. Sandel is an incredibly interesting lecturer and great at facilitating conversation in lecture. The course gives a great framework to think about ethical dilemmas and while I am less sure about how I feel about certain markets, I have a more nuanced understanding of the ethical problems with markets.
This is a great class that really forces you to consider the world around you and the roles that markets should and should not have. You do not have to be particularly proficient in philosophical theories or economics to take this class, but just be willing to learn, engage in conversations, and really be willing to reconsider your stances on certain contentious issues. The readings could be a lot, but were not always necessary since important points (especially for philosophers) were covered in class. Pick paper topics spread out evenly throughout the course of the semester that you would actually enjoy writing about (picking the last four topics to delay deadlines is a bad idea). The course is not super time-consuming and a very enjoyable class overall.
It's a great exercise in logic and critical thinking. Learned about many issues within ethics.
amazing course, a must before you graduate
This has been one of my favorite courses ever at Harvard. Sandel really cares about this material and that shines through during lectures. They are super interesting (as are the readings, which are mostly news and magazine articles!) so I loved going to lecture and section. I'm not sure about other TFs, but try to get Lowry Pressly if you can! I have not had any other TF who cares so much about what we're learning and our development as writers and thinkers. Don't get me wrong, the class isn't easy and you're definitely not guaranteed an A because it's all essay writing and a take home exam (which consists of two essays) so the grading is subjective and depends on your TF, but the class is still worth it!
I'm sad that I took this class as a senior, because it's truly the only class at Harvard that has actually changed the way I look at, view, and approach questions of morality. I highly highly recommend. Really changes your perspective
The course is fine; lectures are good; grading is quite fair. Beware of middle school-esque, no-leeway participation checks such as surprise checks and names taken of students who leave the large class early.
Socratic method Sandel uses can become tedious if students aren't organically getting to the main point he wants to make and lectures can become repetitive. Teaching Fellows in lecture are Sandel sycophants and will physically try to blockade you from leaving to use restroom. Overall I expected more from a famed Sandel course.
If Sergio is your TF, get ready for some of the best sections of your Harvard career. Lectures are fun and involve tons (some would say too much) of audience participation; reading typically deal with some current event or philosophical dilemma and ask you to determine whether a market belongs there. Sandel is an extremely calm, measured, insightful lecturer. Also counts for Gov!
Take this class if you're interested in the dynamic between economics and morals. It serves as a moral compass in a world where money dominates everything.
Take.This.Class. Or any class with Michael Sandel.
Awesome lectures, great way to read some great moralist philosophy, really makes you think about why a lot of the laws and norms we have exist (and whether they really should!)
Section TA's grade incredibly strictly on papers
Some TFs are harder than others and you will actually have to work very hard to get As on your essays.
Good for ethical reasoning.
Take this course. The teaching staff are amazing and Sandel's lectures can't be beat. This course improved my ability to write argumentatively, think critically and argue with my classmates. Definitely one of my favorite courses at Harvard so far.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It allows you, as a student, to begin questioning your previously held beliefs about the world and forcing you to defend yourself thus solidifying a belief system that sticks with you.
The most interesting and life changing class I've taken at Harvard. A must-take before you graduate.
Brilliant class, take it.
This class is difficult, but it's worth it
Take this class! It's incredibly interesting and not too much work. Also definitely do the readings before section, the section component of this class is great and a lot of really great discussions come out of it.
The lecture discussions are somewhat unguided, but overall the class is very reasonable, and you can do all of the work required of you on your own time. This makes it a flexible, but really engrossing class.
This course changed my life and the way I look at politics, economics, and the world around me. Sandel will change your life too.
This class is enjoyable, but a bit of a nuisance.  It is sort of constant work, with readings (that you have to do for mandatory weekly section), 4 or 5 essays, a take home final with two more essays.  but overall, you learn a decent amount and it isn't devastatingly difficult, just time.
While I did enjoy the course and the course materials, and especially section, I will say that lectures are extremely hit or miss. This is because while Sandel is an excellent lecturer, he likes to use the Socratic method and constantly pick on people during lectures, and the people he picks on are largely hit or miss. Section also depends largely on your section leader, and while mine (Aaron Shapiro) was fantastic, I'm not sure about the others. To be honest I took the course for Sandel and didn't ultimately feel like lectures were all that great. Still an easy Gen Ed though, if that's what you're going for.
This course is a great ER to take but not for the faint-hearted. The essays can be quite subjective, and it really requires you to think deeply about the material in order to do well.
The papers were easy to write for me (but might not be for science/math centered people) and the topics were interesting. We were able to choose which topics to write our papers on which was awesome because you could be writing about something you really were interested in. Not always the most engaging lectures, but definitely a good class overall.
Sandel makes a lecture in Sanders feel as intimate as a section. If you're willing to grapple with the moral underpinnings of your ethical assumptions, and actively participate in both lecture and section, you will learn to view the world in a new way. The philosophical readings may be a bit of a challenge to those new to them, but I found that the course staff was more than helpful in ensuring that I understood the content.
This course is taught by preacher Michael Sandel on why his morals are the best. Very charismatic, Sandel is adept at fostering energetic debate, as well as offering arguments to counter a simplified view of utilitarianism. As an intro ethics course, its pretty good, and Sandel is famous, so if that turns you on, take this class.
This course is one of the most interesting courses you will take at Harvard.
I took this class because I needed an ER and have never been one to put much stock in philosophizing, but it was a very interesting class that both teaches you the background of important schools of philosophy but helps prepare you for ethical arguments about issues that affect everyone.
This course is great and not too difficult. My advice: don't start the papers the day of on Sunday. Just pretend they are due the day before and get them done. Second advice: get a good TF. If your TF cold calls you and makes you do all the readings, you're in the wrong section. SWITCH. Overall, great class. I learned a lot of applicable knowledge, and I loved its relevance to current events.
I would recommend this course to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement. It is tempting to take Chinese Philosophy because it has such an easy reputation but I would encourage people to take this course because it is meaningful and forces you to examine controversial real world issues. Professor Sandel also is phenomenal at facilitating discussion between students
A great class that allows you to think about and discuss interesting and important questions. The course load is very reasonable, though writing the essays was much more difficult than I thought it would be.
This class is a great way to fulfill the ER Gen-Ed, but a lot of your enjoyment of the course will depend on the quality of your TF. I had a great one and had a lively and engaged group of people in my section, so the course turned out to be a great experience for me. Definitely do the reading for the philosophers when it's assigned -- for the other stuff, I found it helpful to do some of the reading when writing my papers, but you can totally ignore it and probably still be fine both for section and for the papers. Caveat also that even though the first 2 weeks are all short articles and such, the course's reading changes in character quite a lot (especially after the add-drop!) when it starts to include longer pro-con articles about the case studies or even full legal cases that one is "expected" to read. Again, it doesn't really matter if you don't do the reading, but if you're one of those people with a compulsion for reading everything, be warned that it can be hard to predict. Take this class if you're interested in a gen ed that will actually teach you something important!
Yea for sure.
Changes the way and reasons for which I make any decision or analyze any decision that brings morals into question. Very applicable to real life!
Everyone should take at least one course with Prof. Sandel during their 4 years at Harvard! Brilliant professor, with amazingly interesting lectures and materials, and very helpful TFs- my favorite class at Harvard and in my educational career so far!!
This is a great class to take if you are interested in discussing various moral issues. It provides a good argumentative foundation for thinking through the issues, and I was always exposed to different and interesting opinions. Don't think of this class as a normal GenEd, however. It is graded more harshly than the typical GenEd. If you are willing to work hard on the essays and think you will enjoy thinking about the issues, you should definitely take the class!
Not only is this class one of the most engaging and interesting ways to fulfill  the ethical reasoning requirement, but you also leave the class understanding a lot more current events issues and learning how to reason via logic frameworks.  Learning how to write more philosophy, argumentative papers was a bit challenging a first, but once you get the hang of it the class becomes really enjoyable. I love the debate in section and being able to explore different issues.
Great class to take for introduction to various philosophers and ethical arguments and applying their theories to real world problems.
This is a fantastic class. Sandel is a great lecturer, and you will discuss some of the most morally and ethically complicated dilemmas out there. There is more philosophy than it looks like on the syllabus, but it is always in the context of these harder choices. The overarching theme of morality vs. free markets is tackled very well. Definitely take this at some point before graduation.
ER39 is a frustrating but somewhat worthwhile class.  I enjoyed learning about the 3 or 4 philosophers and applying their moral philosophies to different difficult cases.  The process of thinking and writing about tough questions is not always fun, but a valuable skill to develop or expand.  The actual logistics of the course are more annoying, though. Most lectures are extremely similar, with too much review and not enough discussion on new material.  The course takes itself too seriously, forbidding laptops and cell phones for everyone, and taking attendance on days that some students might not attend (Thanksgiving week, a Friday makeup). That said, it is a fairly painless way to fulfill the ER requirement.
It can be demanding but it is such a useful and enjoyable course, no matter your chosen concentration. I really loved it and left feeling inspired.
An interesting class with a pretty light workload that is engaging even to those only interested in fulfilling the ER39 requirement.
Sandel is a great lecturer, and you will learn a lot about philosophy and ethics. I honestly feel that this class has made me consider the ethics of actions and policies in a more thoughtful manner.
Take time to understand what your TF's expectations are for papers and the class will be pretty straightforward. The material is great and highly applicable to everyone's daily lives.
I didn't think that I would enjoy any class that involved philosophy, but Professor Sandel did a fantastic job of relating everything to real world problems. This was one of the most interesting, but also challenging classes that I have taken at Harvard. Every response paper required my full attention and a significant amount of time because I had to think through the philosophical implications of problems that government officials are facing today. Great for any Gov concentrator that needs to fulfill the political theory requirement as well.
This class is extremely entertaining and provides a new way to examine moral issues.
This class is a great course to take across the board. It is a lot of fun to sit through lectures and listen to the people talk, and I also had a lot of fun in section. The papers were not bad at all (although you should make sure you spread out the workload somewhat evenly through the semester, this is easy to do as most of the topics are pretty interesting), and the readings were not particularly burdensome. This is a fun and engaging way to fulfill your Gen-Ed credit, and is well worth your time.
Doing the readings for each week, regardless of whether or not you are writing the paper, is super helpful and makes attending class a lot more interesting. Avoiding the readings, although it may be tempting, makes the class super boring.
This course was overall great - it provided lots of interesting new ethical and theoretical frameworks to view some of the most critical and controversial issues in society, equipping students with the ability to form their own intelligent opinions based on logical reasonings. It also just brought my attention to a lot of different interesting issues I wasn't aware of or didn't think much about before, and I feel more confident in presenting my personal moral opinions on them in the future. The workload wasn't that bad, though their attendance taking was brutal (they specifically targeted days in which students were likely to miss, and their attendance checking process was wholly inefficient and irritating) and the take-home final was on the heavier side. The essays were fine, but were graded a bit harshly.
Keep in mind Sandel is responsible for teaching the enormous mass of people taking this course, so discussions can only really scratch the surface of the ethical ideas introduced.  Sections mitigate this somewhat.  Some small logistical problems, but since this class is relatively young, I expect them to be sorted out in the future.
Take Ec10 either before or while you take this class. It is great to know exactly how market forces work as you look at them in relation to morality.
Definitely a great way to satisfy this gen ed.
This is a very good social science class for non social science people. It is very accessible and very relevant.
I would tell students the course helps you think in moral terms and grapple with your assumptions about markets, but it doesn't feel personal at all and it is not challenging enough.
This is a course where you will probably just take an A-. The final exam is all essays, so your whole grade is determined based on your writing (and unless your a fabulous writer, you'll take an A-). Lecture gets repetitive after a while, but overall interesting course that will make you think.
This was my favorite class! It's really fascinating, and makes you think about things you have never thought about before. You learn how to think, you engage in interesting debates, you meet people with different opinions, you become a better student.
Thought-provoking and transformative course. Challenged my set of morals, and allowed me to put words to why I believe what I believe. The essays are easy to write, and the topics are very interesting.
This class is amazing. Sandel does an amazing job of looking into all the philosophical issues in markets.
Very interesting material, and Sandel may well be the best lecturer you ever get to experience. Lectures are mandatory, but absolutely worth going to. By the end of the semester, the topics get slightly repetitive and the papers are annoying, but it's overall a worthwhile way to fulfill ER. I would even recommend it as an elective. You leave this course thinking about markets and societal norms in a very different way.
It's an extremely interesting class, though I hear that grading by TFs vary a lot.
Aside from this class requiring lecture attendance (you have to check in with your TF at random lectures), it's pretty good and opens your mind to both sides of every argument.
This is an awesome class. If you want to learn a little bit about philosophy while applying it to real life issues, definitely take this class. Sandel does a great job acknowledging many points of view and forces you to think more deeply about issues you probably wouldn't think about.
Professor Sandel is excellent. This is a thought provoking and enjoyable ER class.
An incredibly interesting class.  Unfortunately, you spend most of lecture listening to classmates (often times making fools of themselves) and don't get as much out of the experience as you could if Sandel would teach more of the time.  Hopefully, if this course is offered again, he changes that component of the course.  If he doesn't, watch out for really boring lectures.
TAKE IT, and make sure you get into Charles Lesch's section. I am sure there are some other good TFs, but hands down Charles is outstanding and he will give you a great section experience. The class is not just about money and markets. You actually come away knowing quiet a bit about philosophers in general.
It's very thought provoking and brings up interesting discussion.
Best class I have taken at Harvard. This course will challenge you to have an opinion and take a side on the most controversial issues of our day, because you can't back away from figuring out what's right and wrong just because it might be controversial enough to offend some people. My worldview changed so much, and I learned a ton from Michael Sandel (who is a genuis and a legend, by the way) and from my fellow students taking the class as well. I feel informed about current events and ready to debate with anyone why a particular activity might be morally objectionable.
This is a really interesting class with fascinating case studies, but my biggest reservation is that lectures were very much hit or miss. Professor Sandel has an interesting teaching style, facilitating discussions within the lecture. This either resulted in great insights from multiple students, or a really slow moving lecture if he was constantly asking questions to one student, in which case it felt like 200 students sitting in on and listening to an office hours conversation. The cases you will explore, though, are fascinating and I often continued the discussions with friends outside of the class.
incredible class, learned so much
Nice and easy course, pretty small size of class makes it easier to participate in the discussion and to meet Sandel during his office hours. Very chilled class, definitely take it if you get picked up on the lottery.
This class is the only one in my five semesters at Harvard so far for which I did not miss a single lecture.  Professor Sandel's lectures were often the highlight of my academic week.  There is no class like this.  It is engaging, thought-provoking, and hands down one of the best classes at Harvard.  If you get in, taking it is a must.  And Charlie is a great TF; choose his section if he is still TFing the course.
This is probably the best class I have taken at Harvard. It fundamentally changed my outlook on key social, political, and economic issues by providing a framework to evaluate them. Grading is harsh, but definitely worth it in the end.
Professor Sandel is an incredible lecturer. He is able to facilitate a rounded discussion in a class of over 200 people. The subject matter is thought provoking and challenging, but in a fantastic way. Sections are clarifying and interesting.
Take this course if you get the chance! Sandel is a fantastic lecturer and the material is so interesting! The readings can be a lot but are mostly really interesting. This course provides a whole new perspective and will change the way that you think about a lot of the world's issues. It leaves a lot of room for discussion and provides a perfect environment for you to learn from your peers.
Take the class if you are interested in the subject material. You'll learn a little bit of political philosophy, but largely the class is about how we should think about market practices today. The conclusions are not particularly profound, but the course helps you break down the ethical dimension of different issues.
Basically Justice with another name. Sandell is a good lecturer. Because it's a Gen Ed, the discussions don't get as deep as I would've liked. Other than that it's an alright course. Not particularly incredible, but okay.
This is an amazing course and Sandel is a great lecturer. However, you need to have a background in philosophy. Otherwise, it is extremely difficult to do well in this course. The TFs really harp on individual philosophers and if you do not jump on that bandwagon, and focus more so on your own arguments, your grade will suffer.
This class is so relevant to every person's life and inspires you to think about the moral framework behind many of our society's accepted practices, and why other similar practices are not acceptable. This is the kind of course that you would want everyone elected to a public office to have taken because the questions are so pertinent. Also, Sandel prepares the lectures phenomenally, the discussions are interesting, and you pick when you will write your papers and what they will be about. Best class I've ever taken (and it isn't very hard either).
Great class, I highly recommend taking.
This is an excellent class. The readings and discussion are very interesting, and Professor Sandel is just as engaging and eloquent as you expect him to be. While he has a clear stance on many of the issues, he does not impose any of his personal ideas on the discussion or reading selection. This was the first year this class was taught, but due to the experience of the professor and teaching staff. that was not at all apparent.
Be sure you do the readings. You will get more out of class that way. Also, go to office hours! They prepare you to write the papers, and discussing the course topics with Professor Sandel should be its own reward.
A great class with lectures that you will certainly look forward to. My best advice is to learn how to write a philosophical paper as soon as you can. It's very different from normal essay writing, but once you get it down, the class will become a lot less stressful..
This is a pretty awesome course. You gain a toolbox of ways to approach ethical issues which is really cool. I like this because many things we know are ethically wrong, but before the course were difficult to argue in that direction since practically the unethical things is better. Charlie is a great TF. He will give you valuable feedback and teach you what you are doing wrong in your essays so you can really improve your political philosophy writing skills
Michael Sandel holds very engaging lectures, but be ready to write some challenging papers.
It is a course that has tangibly changed my way of thinking of the world around me. The course touches on many controversial moral cases related to the market (and as we live in a market economy, all these issues are very related to daily lives). How to formally develop and form one's moral opinion on issues is an important skill every Harvard students who hope to be future leaders should acquire, and this course has definitely helped me develop such skill. It teaches one how to logically and rationally weigh different reasonings on a moral issue by comparing and distinguishing similar cases, building hypothetical thought experiments, and borrowing views from influential philosophers in the past. Workload is quite manageable, but the grading though can be really really harsh (it is the harshest graded Gen-Ed I have taken).
This is a course you're going to want to keep talking and thinking about outside of class.
It's not an easy gen ed, but it is very interesting.
Not only will I tell current students that it is the best class at Harvard, but I might tell high school students that the course is a reason to choose Harvard over other schools.
10/10 Would take again. It is a great course that is huge on the moral deliberation of life and whether or not markets should play a role. You will learn about Bentham, John Stuart Mills, Kant, and Aristotle as the 4 big philosophies that you will consider in this course along with market principles.
This was the first year the class was offered, so it still has a lot of bugs that need to be worked out.  For example, the essays were largely philosophical essays, and yet we were never taught how to write a philosophical essay.  Having said that, I think that's a bug that will be fixed in the next year or two.  The lectures are fantastic, and I think they're hugely worth the essay frustrations, enough that I would recommend taking this class.
This is a class that challenges your thinking so the assignments reflect that thought process
This course is super rewarding. It makes people think about a lot of issues that they may have already formed an opinion on, and challenges people to support their own ideas. It definitely helped me improve as a writer, and widened my view on issues that we discussed.
Take this course! It will challenge the way you think about issues relevant to our society. When faced with issues that strike you as wrong, this class will teach you how to effectively defend your objections on concrete, carefully considered grounds.
This course is incredibly interesting. Topical issues are examined, and you gain the skills to better consider what the role of markets in society should be. Lectures are very interesting, with seminar-like participation and engagement. Definitely a course with big ideas and great discussion.
Its great and very engaging!
This class changes the way you think about right and wrong. I've come to realize that there are many sides to a moral question, there are many pros and cons.
Great class, lectures are really interesting, everything seemed to connect well. The papers are graded a little harshly, but overall I think the class was not too difficult.
Amazing class. Come in with an open mind and don't be afraid to discuss outside of class.
Don't take it first semester freshman year
TAKE THIS COURSE! It is absolutely amazing! The case studies are fascinating and the philosophers studied were manageable. Professor Sandel is an engaging lecturer and the TFs are absolutely top notch. The essays are a wonderful way of handling the materials presented in class and are not too demanding.
Be prepared to share your thoughts. It is important to be wrong at some point in this class, because it is then that you start to question your assumptions, open your mind, and start to learn how to argue. As long as you're open to the ideas of others and can be scrutinizing without being critical, then you will gain a lot from this course.
Sandel breaks down the subjects and topics really well. Great moderator and excellent topics.
The course is awesome. It is very interesting to take the course while/after you take/took an introductory Economics course such as Ec10, but I think this class is extremely interesting anyway.
NA
Take this class if you can lottery into it! Sandel is such an amazing professor that makes lectures very fun and interactive! I never noticed the time go by when I was listening to (and sometimes participating in) the debates unfolding in class. While the class is challenging is definitely manageable and the TFs (especially Charlie!) are really great and helpful. It's a course that's well organized and thought-out.
Your opinion on the course will depend on your TF.
This is a very strong class, and Sandel is a great professor. The emphasis on discussion is one of the most enriching parts of the course, because students get to hear other students' opinions, while Sandel shapes the discussion. The workload is not particularly high, and the readings are very interesting. Pay attention during the weeks on the philosophers (Kant, Aristotle, etc) because that will appear on the final.
This a great course with a moderate workload. Sandel is definitely as good as advertised and makes lectures incredibly interesting and engaging. The four 1000 word papers proved to be pretty easy once you're able to discuss the topic during lecture. If you like discussing ideas, debating cool moral concepts, or if you are section kid, you will definitely enjoy this course.
This class is awesome. Professor Sandel's ideas are intriguing and his office hours themselves make the class worth it. Sometimes the Socratic seminar method sucks because you'll have a good point that goes unrecognized, but such is the case in a class with over 100 people.
This is a great work for a number of reasons. For one, it is a great way to fulfill ethical reasoning. It is extremely interesting and the material will stick with you for a really long time because none of it is based on memorization. Rather, everything is discussion bases and all the assignments are essays (there are no in class exams). The course will give you a framework to talk about real-world moral issues. Further, the course is not very demanding and is very flexible in terms of workload. You get to CHOOSE when you write essays. This is extremely nice by the teaching staff and makes life much easier as you can choose to write when you are less busy or on topics that are most interesting to you. Overall, awesome class. Highly, highly recommend.
This was a great course! Sandel is  a fantastic lecturer and great at actually engaging an entire classroom in debate.  Each case study was interesting and challenged the way that I had previously thought about right and wrong. It was overall phenomenal and also not very challenging or too philosopher heavy.
Grading was unreasonable
This was an excellent course.  I'm so glad I lotteried into it.  Sandel is an incredible facilitator, and strikes a good balance of summarizing arguments, laying out dilemmas, and questioning the beliefs of the students he calls on.  The class struck a very good balance of theoretical frameworks and case-based analysis which made for a very satisfying experience, and the assignments were fun to right.  If you have the opportunity, take it.
Make sure you get a fair TF.
INCREDIBLE
This class is amazing! Really cool to not only think about your own views on a variety of cases but also hear what other classmates have to say.
This is a decent course that can get a little repetitive and is heavy on anecdotes at the expense of talking about the philosophers.
The course addresses issues from a lense that is narrow and is therefore sometimes very frustrating. However, it is an interesting way to explore the appropriate use of markets.
This is one of the greatest class you can ever imagine. Professor Sandel's charisma at the lecture is unpointed. Anyone from any background will find the material useful and accessible. This is one of the classes I will sincerely recommend to anyone!
DON'T BE SWAYED BY THOSE WHO SAY TAKING A SANDEL COURSE IS A MUST. IT'S NOT. THE COURSE IS LARGELY OVERRATED, GRADING IS ARBITRARY, AND YOUR EVALUATION OF THE COURSE IS LARGELY BASED ON YOUR TF.
This is an incredible course in which you will get to hear novel discussions and thoughts of Harvard students about extremely polarizing issues such as surrogate pregnancy and organ sales among many other topics.  You will absolute love it.  Make sure you get a good TF though, because upon discussing my section experiences with others, I did feel that certain TFs (such as mine) were more approachable than others.  Utilize your TF's expertise!  Talk to them about your paper before writing it, it will do go tons of good.  Also, go to Prof. Sandel's office hours because you might not always get called on in class (even though he does a pretty decent job at getting around the room).  This class will make you question your own beliefs and values, though, so if that excites you, this is one class you have GOT to take.
A really interesting and insightful course. Really adds a new perspective on what markets should and shouldn't organize. Professor Sandel facilitates the discussions expertly and doesn't attempt to "brainwash" you with his ideas, which I definitely saw as a positive. Maybe not the easiest A, but with only 4 short papers and a take home final also not the toughest course. One of the best courses at Harvard, in my opinion!
This was an amazing class that brought real-world situations into the classroom for a chance to discuss the ethical side of each of them. While it opens your eyes to philosophy in a way that can't be done just by reading old philosophers, be prepared to leave class fully understanding both sides of the argument but not having a clear answer on which path to take to be most ethical. One of the best classes at Harvard for sure!
If you're taking this course just for a gen ed, don't. Do ER18. As one who's taken both, the latter is much more interesting and easier. This course done for a gov political philosophy requirement is probably one of the more painless ones but Sandel did not live up to the hype this year (which is disappointing because he totally could)
Be ready for some good discussions
Very interesting course that changes the way you think about a lot of real-world issues. Introduces many difficult moral issues that I have never considered before.
This course is phenomenal. While it may not propound one single view, the material is fascinating, the class is riveting, and of course, Professor Sandel lives up to all expectations. You might not expect it, but his Socratic Method works in every way. Section was truly my favorite hour of every week. If you're interested in ethical reasoning or moral philosophy even in the slightest, then do everything you can to get into this class!
This is more of an extremely large seminar as opposed to a lecture course. You'll get more out of the course if you're willing to take a position on the topics, so don't be afraid of stating your opinion.
Despite its tendency to repeat points, this course is fascinating and changes the way you think about markets.
Just read his book. Literally every material he covers is in either Justice or What Money Can't Buy; lectures were just listening to unprepared students talking about illogical, unsubstantiated arguments and the grading is way too harsh for a Gen-Ed course. I was so happy to get into the lottery by a big-shot professor like Sandel, but I would say just auditing the course a couple times would be enough to quench the fan-boy desire. Would not recommend.
This class is incredibly interesting and equips you with a lot of opinions.
Definitely read Sandel's works outside of the class or before it and review the philosophers. Also get writing help through the writing center or a house tutor because YOU WILL NEED IT.
This is by far the absolute worst class I have ever taken at Harvard and I would not dare wish taking it upon my worst enemy.  While lectures start out interesting, by week 3 they get old as Professor Sandel starts to hammer home the same 3 points over and over and over again, offering almost nothing new to the class.  You end up learning next to nothing (honestly, read his book and you'll learn three times as much as you do in the class), and you get stuck in sections with students that try and just answer whatever they think the TF wants to hear, and TFs that dock points simply because they disagree with you.  The grading is entirely subjective and makes no sense, while the new "writing style" the class focuses on you will never need to use again because it is just so blatantly irrelevant to the real world.  I took this class because I heard positive things about Sandel; I urge you to seriously reconsider any inclination you may have towards taking this class.
I was very excited to take this course at the beginning of the semester, but it quickly became repetitive and the conversation was dominated by a few students. I also thought the topics discussed were not as substantive or pressing as many other moral issues that we are struggling with in our society. I also was uncomfortable with many of the comments said in class. Professor Sandel does a great job of creating an open dialogue where people feel free to express their opinions openly and honestly, but I think there were times when people should have been corrected for their insensitivity.
Participating in lecture is a lot of people just talking about their feelings. That annoys some people, but I found it to be interesting and made lectures less boring than if Sandel were to just talk the whole time or ask us which reading said what. 

Regardless, Sandel is amazing. Take it! It's definitely not a hard course. Workload is very reasonable.
This class will challenge you intellectually, and it will transform the way you think about ethics, and the way you should act in your day to day life. The class forces you to examine deep, pertinent questions regarding the role of money and markets in society. It is not a very difficult course, and the workload is very manageable. Michael Sandel is also a tremendous lecturer, and all Harvard students should take one of his classes before they graduate.
Please take this class! If you get in, you'll be very lucky. It is very enriching, and useful outside of an academic environment.
This class is incredible. Some don't always love the extent to which students speak in lecture, but seeing Sandel in this setting is incredible. The class makes you think about issues you previously ignored, and is one of the courses you need to take at Harvard.
This class is amazing!! Such a gem! It's so interesting and the professor is great. I would take the course again if I could.
Wonderful class. If you're interested in any social science and are interested in politics/law/ethics then you will love this class. If you're only looking for a gen ed, this class doesn't require any background knowledge and can be very interesting.
This course is repetitive in its themes and is vague in its grading.
Great class for engaging in important moral debates
TAKE IT!!! This class will seriously change the way you think about the world and your impact on it.  The lectures have just the right balance of structure and flow.  Sandel makes sure to hit on all the main arguments, and he spends the rest of the class posing questions to guide students in thoughtful debate.  The papers are fun to write, because you get to pick four topics that interest you and develop an argument about it.  This was the first year it was offered, and it far exceeded my expectations.
Great class, but if you took Justice already I wouldn't recommend this class because they cover a lot of the same material
This class is great if you haven't done much moral or political philosophy, or haven't taken a class with Sandel, but if you have done these things, the class gets a bit old.
The course is good, but can get a little tiring at times. I still have no clear idea of how I was supposed to write the response papers. The section component was good if you had a good TF.
This is a really interesting course, and one that deals with important issues in a really interesting environment.
Will really make you consider you actions and those of others in a new moral light.
The readings aren't completely necessary because a lot of it is gone over and summarized in lecture and section.
Awesomely intersting, fascinating
Some of the material is dumbed down a bit, but all in all this is a good, thought-provoking class.
Incredible class. Very well organized. Lively discussions. Sandel is a fantastic lecturer and not to be missed. This class will give you a whole new way of thinking. Thought provoking, difficult course, but well worth the time. Perfect introduction to ethics and philosophical thinking. And you will have endless tricky and interesting case studies to challenge your friends with.
An easy gen ed, pretty repetitive for anyone who's studied philosophy before. There are probably a lot of more fulfilling courses if you're deeply interested in philosophy. Sandel is a good lecturer, but he's also fond of asking for opinions for the class, which can get tedious and repetitive. Try to get Charlie as a TF if he's still teaching - he was very good at explaining concepts to people who'd never heard of them before, while still keeping section from getting too boring for people with a broader philosophy background.
Sandel is great and the content is kinda interesting but section was really bad
This is a very good class! Sandel is an incredibly engaging lecturer, and I was very rarely bored. (Note that all lectures are mandatory, and attendance was taken on random days. I would by no means consider this a negative, but it's something to be aware of.) The readings are really interesting. Most come from newspapers or magazines. Aside from a few weeks spent on moral theory, the rest of the readings I could have easily picked up in my spare time and enjoyed. The work load is incredibly minimal as wellonly 4 1000-word papers over the course of the whole semester. As long as you're even remotely interested in morality and markets, take this class! It definitely taught me to think about the world in ways I never expected.
Take this class. It really affected the depth of my thinking and my awareness about money in society. Professor Sandel is a genius both as a teacher and a thinker, a rare combination, and the chance to take a course with him is one to not pass up. And the topic of this course is fascinating as well.

I didn't take Justice but my impression of it, and having watched a few lectures on YouTube, is that this is an applied way of thinking about that class. Much more interesting perspective than the one three thousand other people have walking around our campus at one time, right? (Or you could just take both...)

Also, advice: go to office hours as much as you can. It is SO FUN and also a very worthwhile way to learn.

Also if you can take this with Tsin Yen as your TF do, she is a fantastic TF!!!
This was an incredible class with interesting lectures and engaging discussions.
One of the best classes I have taken. Strongly recommend. Professor Sandel is amazing and you will learn a lot.
This class is taught by Michael Sandel. I don't feel like I need to say more.
Awesome course. Although slightly repetitive, great material and lecture discussions. Interesting to hear everyone's very different perspectives on these current and relevant topics.
