The readings in this class are relatively famous and influential (The Communist Manifesto, A Theory of Justice). This class explores them in an enlightening way.
This class was great: the reading was interesting, the lectures were actually good, and the sections were probably my favorite part. The essays were pretty enjoyable to write, and the final wasn't bad at all. Overall, the content was interesting and the reward-to-effort ratio was extremely high: take it!
Really awesome introduction to economic justice. Fills a real gap in Harvard's curriculum. Would recommend doing the big book readings, especially Rawls. Perfect if you want to critically analyze our current political economy, its pitfalls, and its strengths.
The course provides an outline of the historical trends in policy and economics since the Enlightenment. We discuss and pick apart major ideas, such as liberal egalitarianism, property owning democracy, democratic socialism--terms I never thought I would understand or use comfortably. I came in with no background on government or philosophy or economics.  I really enjoyed learning about these concepts in a low-stress environment without feeling like I was the only one who hadn't come across these terms before. All of the readings in the required course pack can be found online or through Hollis.
It is a great opportunity to understand the many perspectives and arguments in the world today surrounding the political/economic organization our society should practice. A fun mix of economics and philosophy, paints a really interesting historical picture. Made me question many of the capitalist assumptions that are often made in Economics classes at this school.
This class was great- Professor Risse is a fantastic lecturer and really gives a holistic view without trying to force any ideology on anyone. The readings are good (and some are necessary for the papers). Section is always fun and the final is extremely reasonable. Take this class and you'll learn a lot of stuff that you feel like you're supposed to learn from and ER- but get ready for the 3 papers!
This is a MUST TAKE class!!!  You will meet a lot of competing perspectives, many of which are appealing while at odds with one another.  You will have the chance to ask who you believe: Brennan, Cohen, Nozick, Marx, Rawls, or Tomasi.  You will change your mind.  You will likely walk away from the course with a fundamentally different position on a few issues than you started with.  Professor Risse is opinionated, but there is A LOT of room for different opinions than his, provided you can support your position.  He is not a lecturer who thinks only he can be right.  He gives you the tools you need to articulate your own position.
Good class overall. I came in really expecting it to be more of a look at the present day world and an examination of current social/economic problems/injustices but that was not at all what the course was. It really was a historical survey of different economic philosophers and their various flavors of capitalism/socialism. Lots of discussion between Marx and Brennen and Cohen and Smith and Locke and all those folks. Pretty solid analysis of each theory and the arguments for and against each. If that's what you're looking for, great class. If it's not, maybe find another course...
Economic justice is a great course to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement and is taught very well.  The course load is very manageable with 3 papers (5 pages each) spread throughout the semester and a final exam.  If you have interest in exploring and challenging the moral and economic implications of various economic systems and uncovering were your own economic beliefs may lie, this is a cool class to figure that out.  I thought the principles and concepts were super applicable to life.
Pretty easy, pretty interesting class. The papers are very doable and the exam was very easy if you just prepare the provided questions. You can get by without doing the readings or going to all of the lectures.
The readings are pretty dense, and the section component of the class wasn't great, but the final was super easy. Professor Risse is a really smart man and i thought he was an effective lecturer.
A great choice for an ER Gen Ed if you're interested in policy, economics, goverment, law, etc.! (Or just as a fun, not too rigorous course for someone with those interests, as well!)
Professor Risse is a really great lecturer, so I always looked forward to class. Unfortunately for Harvard,  Klemen is leaving (he was the best head TF I've ever had), but he was seriously the most helpful TF you could imagine. He and Risse really made the course informative and enjoyable for me. Some of the readings can be tough to get through, but Risse does a good job of simplifying the most important ideas in his lectures. The essays are graded kind of harshly so be careful on those. It won't be easy to get an A.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard; material is very thought-provoking and engaging; answered a lot of questions about society that both clarifies and challenges.
Great class
it is expensive to take- course pack was $140
This is my favorite class of all four years of college. Please take it.This will develop your own skills for constructing arguments but will be some of the most relevant and comprehensive (at a high level) materials you could use to understand economic justice, economic systems, institutions, poverty, wealth, entitlement, racism, ethics, etc.  You will gain a lot from this class and I think anyone can take it. You will each have your own opinions and ways of interpreting the materials, which is why the course was such quality. EVERYONE should take this class!!! It's intriguing, fun, and challenging.
Take this class if you want to learn more about economic/political philosophy. You will definitely develop a better grasp over the course and find ways to apply the material to your everyday life and other interests.
This is a great gen-ed! It is a good introduction to philosophy because it incorporates philosophical methods and some classic authors like Marx and Locke, but is rooted in contemporary issues so everything you learn is very relevant to your life. It is not the easier ER gen-ed you can take, but I would highly highly recommend taking this class if you are interested in social inequality in America and discussing the morality or immorality of different political and economic systems around the world.
The readings for this course were good and spanned a broad spectrum of views, many of which were developed in interesting ways. However, I found the lectures to be repetitive, and they did not go as deep into the material as I would have liked. Many sections were almost completely oriented towards assignments, and there wasn't enough opportunity for in-depth discussions. If you care about really exploring the various theories that come up in the course and discussing them in detail, this course might not be satisfying--at the same time, it does provide a good selection of materials to read and think about.
This is the quintessential gen-ed course. You get exposed to so many great authors with vastly contrasting viewpoints on a fundamental question: how should society be organized? In the process you learn how philosophical arguments work, and are forced to think critically about objections, counter-objections, and counter-counter-objections. The class does seem tilted towards a particular (Rawlsian/left-leaning) view of the world, but there is ample time devoted to many other viewpoints as well. Also beware that the essays are quite difficult, time-consuming, and graded harshly (at least for someone who doesn't take a lot of paper classes). But it's worth it in the end.
This wasn't just far and away the best gen-ed I've taken, or my favorite humanities course so far, but among the best classes I've found at Harvard.  Professor Risse is phenomenal, not only delivering lectures clearly and effectively, but also piecing together the course as a thoughtful framework that ties together the ideas and paints a broader narrative.  You'll get tons of exposure to interesting philosophy and economics ideas along with a taste of their intimate applicability to real issues.   Take this course.
- don't buy the textbook, rent or look to find readings online. The readings are overpriced and will not be used much, you will save a lot of money
It's heavy on philosophical theory, but if that interests you, then you'll have a good time in the course.
Absolutely amazing class! I willingly went to all the lectures! The teaching fellows were incredible and passionate They added so much value to the class. The papers were fairly easy and graded fairly!
Great class, but much harder than you'd expect probably
be prepared to reason in a structured fashion.
The course presents a great introduction to schools of economic thought. However, the irony of the class was clear during the last lecture, in which we were reminded of the "diversity" of authors. It seemed to go over the professor's head that white men are not the only individuals who have thought meaningfully of how to structure an economic system.
Not a hefty workload but you get a lot out of lectures. Thought-provoking material
Great course that is very applicable to current events.
If you exist... take this class.
Great class for learning about economic justice. It's easy to fall behind in readings and still get through until the final... where it proceeds to wreck you. The workload is low because it's easy to skip readings for most of the semester. However, actually keeping up takes a lot of time (super dense readings)!
Excellent introduction to philosophy for those interested. Yes, that includes you Ec concentrator. This class expanded my perspective like no other, and really was much more than a traditional social sciences class (I know that as an Ec concentrator).
This is a sweet course. It's not really hard, and at the end of the day the course material is really interesting. Lectures are straight up confusing, literally nobody has any idea what's going on during class. But there aren't any exams except for the final, so you don't really have to keep up with course material till the end.
Relatively objective approach to different economic systems from command state economy to laissez faire capitalism.
You should share the required reading packet with a friend to help pay for it.
an excellent course if you want to learn more about the greatest debate over the intellectual world - ideology. but tons of work if you aim at a good grade.
too much work and not worth it unless you're really into reading old-school philosophy.
Not exactly a gem, but a fine way to round out a stressful semester. You will learn a lot by doing the readings then attending section. The final comes right off of the lecture slides, which are loaded onto the course website. The papers are the most intellectually challenging component of the course, and they're very manageable.
Sometimes lecture was information overload but usually section sorted it out. first 2 papers were more difficult than the last paper
Interesting material, gets you to think about how the economy should be structured not just based on what is feasible or possible but what we should be ideally starving for
Take this course...extremely relevant to today's economic climate, you learn a lot about great thinkers.
This is a painless Gen Ed that really gives a great overview of different systems of economic philosophy. All econ concentrators should look into taking this course-- really opened my eyes to the complexities surrounding economic justice.
Manageable papers are the main assignments.
Great class about an important topic that is run in a low-stress way -- would highly recommend.
Good introduction to political philosophy, but not as easy as some other gen-eds.
One of the most important classes for life that you can take at Harvard. Do it!!!
I definitely recommend this course if you're looking for a relatively easy and interesting course that covers a wide range of economic thinkers and theories. This course does a great job with G.A. Cohen and Nozick especially, but if you're looking for an in-depth analysis of Piketty, Marx, or Rawls, this is not your class. Though Risse spends a lot of time talking about Rawls, his discussion of the text is very confusing and I didn't feel like I really understood what was going on. I enjoyed this class as a senior spring sampling of various economic theorists, and thought it was really engaging and interesting, but do wish I had tried to take a more rigorous class that covered these subjects.
TAKE THIS CLASS. I think this class should be required for all undergrads. It makes you reevaluate your privilege as part of the 1% in society (by virtue of being an undergrad at Harvard) and what obligations you have to society as its leader.
Great class - Moderate workload and a perfect first glimpse into philosohpy. You really feel like having a solid overview about the main contenders/authors in the Economic Justice debate.
This class covers super interesting material. It's very relevant to life and Risse is a fantastic lecturer.
The course costs a bit; I think I ended up paying ~$200. This was the only complaint I had. Lecture's are quite good, Risse does a good job of encouraging discussion, and section was awesome.
This is a great class if you are interested in political philosophy. The course load is not heavy, the readings are interesting, and the papers/final are not overly time consuming.
Experience is TF-dependent
Professor Risse is a great lecturer and a charismatic person, he effectively introduces complex arguments and is also able to interact with a large number of students (lecture class) via Q&As. While some lectures may go too fast, most help tremendously with understanding the course readings.
Only take this class if you really like political theory. Otherwise, you will find it not very interesting and difficult to do well in. The desired distribution is quite unfavorable toward anyone seeking an A grade.
Pay attention during lectures - it's not so important to take notes because most of the key points are on the lecture slides anyway and it helped so much more to be actively thinking about the arguments made during lectures. The most challenging part of the papers and exam was to "formulate your own opinion" and that's difficult to do without engaging with the material.
There is more philosophy than it seems from "catchy" initial readings. Still, the department offers unprecedented opportunity to learn clear and concise writing.
You will be graded very harshly on the papers. The topic was interesting and Professor Risse has a lot of knowledge. This definitely won't be the most difficult course you'll ever take, but you should really be engaged with the material because you won't get a good Gen Ed grade out of it, even if you spend hours on your paper.
Great fundamentals course as political economic theory! Readings are from the most influential thinkers of our times and professor really wants the students to learn.
This is a great way to meet the ER requirement. It's taught in a way that is easy to understand and friendly to people that have never taken ER before. I learned so much in this class and even use some of the readings in my other classes. It also makes me question a lot about how are society is structured and how it could be otherwise structured.
For ER, this is one of the best out there. You definitely go through some dense readings, but the subject matter is simply too interesting and relevant. It is accessible to people of all levels, with students with a background in political philosophy to those just getting into it. The three essays this year taught you step-by-step how to build up a philosophy paper, so it was extremely accessible in that sense. I loved it. Klemen and Mathias were both fantastic.
This course is awesome!! It is incredibly relevant and interesting and something probably every student should take. The course begins by examining the current crisis in economics and justice and does a good job of motivating the rest of the course's trajectory. The reading can be dense, but they're interesting, and Prof Risse does a great job of breaking them down in lecture. The papers are somewhat difficult but also very structured, so it's not hard to succeed. Finally, Prof Risse, Ryan, and Klemen are amazing! Such cool, knowledgable, and interesting people that are very dedicated to the students. All in all, important material that is made very accessible even to students that have never taken a philosophy course.
This class will really make you think about how you personally stand on a variety of socio-economic issues; there is a lot of historical background but Risse teaches it very well like a developing discussion between philosophers and economists so it doesn't seem static
There are better ER classes out there. The material in this class is not presented in a way that it is accessible to your average student looking to fulfill a gen ed requirement.
If you're interested in issues of economic justice this is a pretty cool class. You will get the chance to read some really interesting authors and learn about the various systems of organization available to us today. It is an interesting and manageable gen-ed.
This class is a great opportunity to better understand contrasting political views and maybe position yourself in political discussions and policies.
great course, definitely take it, not too bad and most reading isn't necessary so don't let syllabus frighten you
I have recommended this ER to many students! It's a relatively easy course, although I feel like the papers were graded a bit harshly. For anyone like me who wanted to take the typical college philosophy class with a very intelligent professor, this is the class for you! Prerequisites are definitely not required. I truly found lecture to be enjoyable!
This class will be much easier if you have taken a philosophy class before. But this is precisely the ER that you should take in order to orient yourself as a civic / social actor in this world. What, if any, is your obligation to society, with your educational and other privileges? Professor Risse is a great lecturer and together with the awesome tf's, will guide you through this ever-important question.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The lectures are interesting and fast paced, and there is a lot of explanation for the assignments.
As someone who has never taken a philosophy course before, I thought this class was a great experience. Although it may not cover certain topics in depth/with great rigor, it gives you a crash course in some of the biggest philosophers and economic thinkers over the last few centuries - and this is exactly what I had been looking for. As someone who is very passionate about the underlying topic itself, I felt that this class presented a very objective view - definitely consider taking it!
This class is extremely interesting in the beginning, but by the last 3rd all you are doing is spending hours upon hours of reading and lecture on three different philosophers. While all three are interesting, it does feel like their theories could be covered much more quickly. If you love philosophy though you will love this class.
Risse is a great lecturer and the material covered is interesting and will make you understand and ponder the economic systems in place around the world.
Great course take it before you graduate
This is a very interesting and engaging class, it raises really interesting questions about the role of equality and inequality in a just society, and you also read many of the great works of philosophical canon. Furthermore, the assignments follow very logically from the class work, and so as long as you keep abreast of the class you will easily be able to complete the written assignments.
LOVED this class. Really a gem. Fantastic texts, succinct and diverse perspectives on great philosophical thinkers, spectacular professor and TFs, a not too much work. Highly recommend -- really made me feel better prepared to talk about the economic state of our country.
The content is very interesting and important. It provides a strong foundation for thinking about economic and political arrangements of society. The readings are substantial and sometimes difficult, although lectures really help build upon the key points. The papers are of reasonably short length, but prompts increase in complexity and difficulty. My TF was available for help, if you contact him.
Good course. Tough curve.
Interesting material, fair amount of reading (non-trivial, but also not unreasonable), and very fair final exam!
This is an excellent class with a very manageable level of coursework. Matthias is a solid lecturer.
This class is really great for a foundation in philosophically thinking about economics and economic justice. If philosophy isn't really your thing though, this might not be the class for you. Also, you can skip over a lot of the readings, but you'll want to know the main people you talk about really in depth.
This class is a great intro to a very important subject. That being said,the expectations for a gen ed intro philosophy course are probably too high. It is definitely harder than your typical ER gen ed, but worth it due to the material. Risse is also a great lecturer and James is one of the better TFs I've had at Harvard.
I would warn future students firstly that their Economic Justice course materials are liable to cost $300++, and secondly that this class is graded on an unaccommodating curve. There are much much easier ways to simply fill an Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed requirement. That said, if you are genuinely interested in economic justice beyond the need to fill a requirement, then by all means take this course-- the readings are wide-ranging and the assignments are thought-provoking and in my experience the TFs have been extremely helpful.
Good course, decent and relevant way to fulfill a Gen Ed.
Great way to learn about the ethical implications of different economic and political systems from a philosophical standpoint.
Great syllabus of reading, dynamic and engaging lectures, and meaningful section discussions. Professor Risse is phenomenal, both in lecture and outside. He always made the lecture topics and discussions feel relevant to real life, despite the high philosophical theory of a lot of them. TAKE THIS CLASS!!!
This is a really interesting course but the essays are hard and the grading is tough
In order to get the most out of this class, really try to do the readings and engage with them. It is super interesting material, but you will be lost on the interactions between authors if you only rely on lecture.
This class engages with questions that you are morally obligated to understand before you become a member of a society with an economy (meaning literally any society) and can help you think about economic systems in totally new ways. And it's not incredibly biased toward the political left or right - I went in as a far-left economic thinker and came out still reasonably convinced in my beliefs, but with a surprising new appreciation for far-right thinkers. This ain't your grandma's (or Greg Mankiw's) Economics Course!
This class was interesting, but much more about pure theory than the modern world. Consider the class if you are willing to do a lot of dense reading, because as soon as you fall behind, you're stuck there. Also, if you're set on taking the class, BUY THE BOOKS. BUY THE COURSEPACK. It is expensive, but otherwise you will get behind in the first few lectures.
This course is very interesting, and it is a great way to explore the theme "Economic Justice."  It is a philosophy heavy course, so there will be more discussion on theories underlying current economic issues and structures rather than discussion of the actual issues.  The course has a fair amount of reading, but the material needed for exams and papers is covered in lecture.  Lecture is helpful clarification of the readings.  Moroever, the papers explore interesting topics.  It is a good course, but it does require effort and interest in the subject material.
If you're curious about the ethical underpinnings of socialism, capitalism, etc. you will find this course very interesting.
This class is amazing and not that much work.
I think every Harvard student should be asked to take a class that teaches you that justice is our responsibility. This class does just that.
Fantastic course with fantastic TFs and a very well-informed, clear-minded, and approachable professor. The readings are varied and comprehensive--most always interesting. Section was also a highlight because it was a joy to wrestle with the concepts from class with other students. All in all, one of the gems of the ER gen eds.
This class is a great way to fulfill ethical reasoning and to learn a little bit about ideas on economic justice, but probably not the best way to actually learn the standards of academic philosophical debate.
This course was the most engaging and demanding course I took this semester. We were constantly pushed to think and internalize the topics we discussed and contribute our original thoughts and reflections on the course's themes and questions. This course was hands down the best course I took this semester.
Dense readings but lectures help break it down. Don't rely solely on those, however, because some details don't come through lecture summaries. I found the readings very interesting so I feel I learned a lot; not recommended if you're looking for a chill class and if you're not interested in philosophy.
This course was very interesting and a good introduction to several very interesting and important works of philosophy. I really think it has given me tools to think better about the world and evaluate arguments.That said, written assignments are tricky and graded relatively harshly so be prepared to spend a good amount of time working on your papers.
This is a great, interesting class/gen-ed that doesn't have an overwhelming workload. The topic is incredibly relevant today, and you get an understanding of the actual philosophy behind alot of political buzzwords thrown around today. The TF's really help you and lay out the papers, and you do learn a great amount.
This is a really interesting course. As someone with no philosophy background, I feel like I learned a lot, and the course was not unfairly demanding.
Don't take this course unless you have a background in philosophy. Honestly, I thought because it was an gen ed and because it sounded fascinating that I would be able to get through it. I was so wrong. Philosophy is a different animal, and this is taught like a pure philosophy course, so it doesn't really allow for newcomers to do well. Steer clear.
If you do all of the readings, as I did not, then you might get a lot out of this course. As it stands, what I got out of this course was some knowledge of how philosophical writing works and a degre of familiarity with some critical ideas of economic justice. I definitely benefited intellectually from this class.
Try to get Klemen as your TF. He is amazing and really cares about each and every student's performance. He is also very accessible outside of class. This class is very good; it makes you think deeply about political/economic philosophical matters that you wouldn't usually think about. The essays push you to think outside the box and trains you how to write quality content - not BS. The readings are usually interesting and not too overwhelming.
Great class, not too difficult, and greatly broadens your understanding of economic systems and the moral/ethical implications of these systems.  Highly recommend.
this course has a lot of reading but not all of it is necessary to success in the course. the papers seem like a lot but the section leader provides a great outline for what the paper needs to be.
Risse is great, as usual. Very interesting material and very thoughtfully arranged by him. I thought the TFs were the weak point of the course this semester.
As far as Gen-eds go, it is pretty good. TF Ryan is the bomb.
This class helps you understand economic justice and (in)equality in our lives and encourages you to think about your place in a society with such economic inequality.
Mathias is great, class is interesting. Really good gen ed class
