If you ever have the opportunity to work with Professor Georganteli, snatch it up! She is a vibrant, charismatic teacher whose enthusiasm for her work (and for the work of her students) is contagious. The course material is fascinating to begin with, but working with Professor Georganteli was an experience I will treasure forever. What an incredible person, and an excellent teacher to boot. I learned much more than I ever have in a class of this size and scope, and came away more excited to be a student than ever. I couldn't have asked for a better semester in this class, and wish I could take it again and again.
This course was both challenging and accessible. I learned a lot about the Crusades by looking closely at objects and doing presentations on specialized subjects, which was a really effective way of broaching such a broad/dense subject.
This is a very special and unique course.  I was extremely lucky to be able to take it.
Eurydice Georganteli is an excellent seminar leader. I highly recommend future students to take this course and really engross themselves in Crusading History in a meaningful, yet manageable manner.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard thus far. Professor Georganteli is one of the kindest and most helpful person I have ever met. She always provides great feedback and works hard to make classes engaging and fun.
Fantastic class. But even more so, a fantastic professor. Professor Georganteli is truly one of the kindest, most wonderful, intelligent, and inspiring professors I have ever had the pleasure to encounter. Take this class for the fascinating material culture, but even more so to have the opportunity to learn under the guidance of Professor Georganteli.
Very cool class. Taught in the Art Museum. You get the opportunity to learn from a wonderful professor who loves what she does. Always kind and enthusiastic. Such a sweet person - reminded me of my grandmother - if my grandmother had gone to Oxford and was a Medieval historian. You also get to handle coins and other artifacts from the museum and you have unparalleled access to history through this amazing resource.
