This is a great class for an introduction to Art history. The material spans a long time period but ties together themes very well. It is a decent bit of work and much harder than most gen eds, but also much more rewarding. If you are looking to learn about art history, take it! The Medieval ages are pretty interesting, and its fascinating starting with the Classical era and seeing how it continues to influence things even 1500 years later.
It is a great class, but the tests can be tricky and the small essays are more difficult than you think.  If you are an undergrad think twice about taking this course.  It is not an easy gen ed, though the material is fantastic.
A great class with fascinating material, as long as you are interested in the topic! Christine Smith's lectures are phenomenal, and Matt is a great TF.
If you like medieval/gothic buildings or enjoy the notion of being a tourist in Europe, this class is for you. If you need the A&I gened and do not want to take HAA10 with the other 300+ people who intend on fulfilling it in that manner, this course is a brilliant alternative that delves into some truly interesting information about the European past. That said, it is by no means an easy course  it takes a great deal of time to learn everything you need to for the slide quizzes. Some might say this testing form lends itself to the class being flashcard fodder, and that is certainly one way you could approach this class. However, you will be cheating yourself, and this sort of learning will actually be harder than learning the connections between and history behind these buildings, the way the course is meant to operate.
This course is a great introduction to medieval art and architecture, even and perhaps especially for students who have no background in the field. It is a great way to explore both art and architecture. As you can see from the website, it is very well organized and provides a wide collection of useful foundational information in the field. You might want to note that the course does have a split. It's not focused solely on art history or architecture, and if you're not interested in both, there may be some lectures on the historical significance or in the structural details that you might not find as engaging. The main downside to the course may be the assignments, which are weighted heavily toward two midterm quizzes that are worth half of the grade and require memorizing hundreds of slides and testing on a handful, each identification question being worth at least a percent of the final grade. If this changes in the future, and in spite of this downside, I think this course is overall really great!
Excellent lectures, foundational knowledge of art history
This class was amazing- I enjoyed it so much. The topic was fascinating, as were the buildings that we looked at, and the professor and teaching fellow, Morgan, were so enthusiastic and informative about the subject. However, I would recommend that only people who loved medieval history enroll in this class; the quizzes are really hard and take hours and hours of preparation, so if you find the topic boring, don't take this class; I only could appreciate the huge amount of time and stress it took to study for the two exams because I love medieval history a lot.
This is a great way to learn about Medieval Architecture without undue effort. Some of the assignments are very interesting, such as going to a monastery and visiting a cathedral in Boston. I would highly recommend this course as a great way to take aesthetic and interpretive understanding.
Memorization of materials for the quizzes was daunting.
One of the best ways to fulfill the aesthetic and interpretive understanding gen ed. Wonderful lectures and very interesting subject matter. Just be forewarned that half of your grade is determined by two midterms (total of 1.5 hours) that require you to memorize a large number of buildings and art pieces.
Great introduction to the subject. Far more interesting than your preconceptions of medieval anything lead you to believe.  Good, smart, witty lectures.
Definitely be prepared for an Art History course. It focuses very strongly on church architecture, which I had a previous interest in, so it worked out fantastically for me. The lectures are really well structured, giving all the background necessary to understand and analyze the building further. It's not the best course to establish an entire foundation for how to write a paper in art history, so previous experience is helpful, but both the professor and TF are very approachable and more than happy to help.
The slide quizzes require some epic flashcard-making, but it's a wonderful course.  I can't walk around now without noticing the architectural elements we learned about in lecture.
As it stands, I would not recommend taking this course. The material is extremely interesting, and Professor Smith is a great lecturer and Anna a great TF, but the quizzes are terrible. The grade-make for the quiz means that 20 minutes in section requires you to memorize 150 slides with dates, meanings, and locations and is worth 20% of your grade, and this happens TWICE. I would audit the course, or sit in on it, without taking the quizzes.
Not as easy as it looks, but not a bad AIU option. The quizzes are midterms in disguise, and require a significant amount of studying (10+ hours) to memorize 150 pictures of churches (along with their names, dates, and locations). The papers are interesting enough and don't take a huge time commitment. Lectures are fine.
Although it is helpful to come into this course with a background in religious iconography and scripture, the materials presented in this class adequately examine the relationship between art and religion. The teaching staff is incredibly helpful and constantly organizes excursions for the course.
Good course. Make sure you attend lecture and study the images.
For anyone who thinks they may be interested to learn more about architecture and the Medieval world, this is a great course and a very refreshing alternative to predominantly reading-based Humanities' Gen-Eds. This course offers a really great experience if you get enthusiastic about it, but should not be mistaken for an 'easy class'.
It will influence your subconscious conception of the built-world around you.
The material in lectures was very interesting. The slide quizzes were easy as long as you studied for them. The assignments were fair, but had no connection with lectures. A good course overall.
This course is a really good introduction to medieval architecture.  Not so much medieval painting or sculpture.  The prof & Katie, the TF, seem like they are taking our feedback very seriously, so perhaps some of the things that people comment on will be fixed next time this course is offered.  Doing the reading didn't matter much at all - in fact, as I stopped doing the reading, my grades on the papers got better, not worse.  I'd be wary of taking this class if you haven't taken art history before - it's definitely comprehensible, but pretty much everyone else will know stuff that you don't.
Painless Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding. Making flashcards for slide quizzes can be fun
It's a great class for someone interested in architecture and the history of the Middle Ages (especially Christianity in the Middle Ages)! The professor is a great lecturer and sometimes you get to go on fun field trips to museums for section.Be prepared to learn about how and why cathedrals were built! + memorize lots of images and write interesting papers.
Study hard for the slide quizzes! They're 10% of your grade each!
This is an interesting course that expands your horizons without expecting you to have any background in the subject.
This is a really great class and you will become a better rounded person because of it. Prof. Christine Smith is a wonderful, witty lecturer. The course itself is pretty straightforward and has a moderate load.  Slide quizzes are very important (50% of your grade) but are very easy if you pay attention in lecture and study.
I learned a lot about medieval art and architecture. My vocabulary for this type of history has increased tremendously and it was a pretty painless experience for all that I gained.
If you want to develop a good repertoire of medieval buildings and a solid vocabulary, this is the class for you. But that is not to say that you won't have to put any work into it, because you surely will only get out what you put in. It would be good to come in with some sort of historical or art historical context, but it is not necessary.
Most weeks, this class requires minimal work.  The alternating weeks of slide quizzes and short papers are the busiest.  The slide quizzes are tricky the first time around, but if you develop a good memorization system they are not a problem.  Christine Smith is a good lecturer, so although lectures are not required, you should go because they are interesting and will give you ideas for the papers.    The class looks mostly at beautiful cathedrals and how they are built and what makes them special architecturally and symbolically.  I never thought I would like learning about Christian symbolism and ecclesiastic history, but I found this course pretty interesting.
This class is a lot of fun; you learn a lot but there is not much outside work involved, which makes a nice change. It's a great way to understand Medieval art and architecture, and to think about how people would have viewed these things at the time of their creation.
Half of the your grade is determined in fifty minutes of the semester (five slide quizzes, ten percent of your grade each, minute per question).  I wasn't a particular fan of this, as I would've rather been judged more thoroughly on my analysis of buildings rather than ultra-specific memorization of dates and names.  Also note that the class is a mix of undergrads, grads, and PhD's.  You'll be working next to some of the greatest upcoming architectural minds the world has to offer, which is neat, but can also make the class more difficult if you're not quite at that level.
This class is very interesting and I learned so much about Medieval architecture.  However, the construction of this course is very different.  The students were never asked about any of the readings or the material covered in the lectures.  We completed three papers and had slide quizzes every other week.
Two words: Slide quizzes.
This class was easy, but weird. It was so boring and early in the morning that it was hard to stay awake or focus, although the design school students were always entertaining to watch (there was one guy who NEVER sat down for no apparent reason and another who brought her own espresso mug to class)....the slide quizzes were annoying but just pure memorization and the essays were an exercise in BS...but the topics are cool and all, I just think if you don't really love medieval cathedrals and obscure facts about them you should take a different gen end. If you do love those things or if the design school students are enough to keep you awake, take it!
A good way to fulfill the AIU requirement if you don't mind memorization and essay writing.  The topics covered were interesting, and you come away with an appreciation for the scope of medieval art and architecture.
Its a great way to fulfill your Aesthetic and Interpretive understanding requirement.  The course title is a little misleading, basically the course looks at predominantly Christian structures built during the middle ages and only deals with art insofar-as art is part of any structure.  Class consists of 5 slide quizzes with around 70 images each, 3 essays and a final paper.
It seems like the professor takes student input seriously, so hopefully the biggest problem I had with the course (slide quizzes) will be altered so that they are more than just rote memorization of dozens of pictures. Don't take this course unless you're genuinely interested in medieval architecture.
I haven't had as much fun or learned so much in a course as I have in this one.
The core of this course, which are the lectures, is excellent. The professor goes over a huge range of medieval buildings, art and contexts, has a good command of the material, and an amusing wry sense of humor. Everything else--readings, writing assignments, etc.--is what you make of it.
If you are disciplined to memorize for the slide quizzes then you should be okay.
It's an interesting class that touches upon many interesting philosophical ideas as well as changes in form during the Romanesque period.
This is a very interesting class in a subject that most people don't know much about. It's easy to not do the reading, but absolutely essential to go to every lecture.
Great. We spent a lot of time on religious buildings--I would have preferred more time on castles. But great introduction to architecture--lots of cool buildings.
The professor was wonderful, the work manageable, the themes interesting. Overall, a great course! I highly recommend it.
This class is an interesting overview of medieval architecture particularly the Romanesque and Gothic styles with some historical exposition incorporated into every building. There is also some classical Roman architecture in the course.  I knew nothing about architecture or buildings before this course, but it did not stop me from learning a fair bit by the end of the class. Don't let the depth of the course scare you away, but realize that you have to take the slide quizzes seriously if you want to do well in the class.  This course is a good way to fulfill the Lit and Arts B requirement.
This course can actually change your life, but you have to help it along. Think of yourself as a pilgrim just like those you will study. Be patient and try to understand the meaning of what you are learning.
It's a very fun class, with a lot of fun facts.
if you like sitting in a room looking at pictures of cathedrals and thinking about what makes them special, then this is a  great class.
interest in material needed
