Meet with the TF and professor to make sure your understanding of the materials aligns with what they expect
The content of Sociology 165 is really important to learn for anyone interested in becoming a doctor, entering health policy, or just understanding the US healthcare system better. However, I would grab the syllabus for this course off the Internet, pick readings that interest you, and steer clear of the course itself. Though there were redeeming characteristics, such as the quality of the readings and section discussion to the well-structured assignment schedule (2 midterms and a final paper due during exam period), there were a number of problems that need to be addressed. One is Professor Ruggie's bias. At least she admits she's a hardcore liberal. But it shows, every single lecture. In addition, her old age shows. I'm not sure what exactly it is, but she uses quite a bit of outdated language (examples: illegal aliens, THE BLACKS) and makes sweeping generalizations about racial and ethnic groups that are entirely unsupported. She also pretty much rejects science. To Professor Ruggie, the sociologist's explanation is the correct explanation for everything, and the one shoutout that science does get during the semester is a shoutout to epigenetics, a highly contested field that is not completely accepted yet by experts. Overall, good course content but poor course execution. Grab the syllabus, but run as fast as you can!
This class seems interesting at first, but eventually it gets very monotonous. The material covered in lecture is very basic and not at all interesting. The readings were too dense and boring. The section component was also bad, since it was always led by students and people often didn't do the readings.
The course addressed an interesting topic, but things started to drag after the first of the three course units. This may just be a result of my own feelings; I found the policy-based topics more interesting than some of the more social/cultural questions we tackled later on. More fundamentally, however, I think the course could have done a better job encouraging different viewpoints, both in lecture and in section. Professor Ruggie was relatively clear about her politics and views on the U.S. health care system from the outset. This isn't necessarily a bad thing. But it seemed that students were loathe to offer alternative perspectives in class. On such an important and complicated topic such as health care, I think it's important that different views are considered, and the course could have done a better job in this regard.
Super interesting, very relevant.
Interesting content but lectures are frankly dry and a regurgitation of statistics.
Very interesting material, and I came away having learned a lot about healthcare and health policy. Lectures were very clear and coherent in the first unit of the course, but I felt that they became a little jumbled by the end of the semester, and not as helpful. Additionally, I felt that the final paper/exam assignment was pretty unclear. There was a LOT of confusion on the student end about exactly what was expected for the assignment. Additionally, section was pretty unhelpful, and difficult to sit through.
seek help if you have questions or are unclear regarding expectations
You'll learn a lot about Medicare/Medicaid which is great. However, this course definitely felt like it had an agenda. Class was sometimes an echo chamber of ideas.
This course was not particularly well organized or effective at conveying overarching themes in the course.
The material is incredibly important and everyone should take the time to learn more about Affordable Care Act. That being said, the lectures are really dry and the relevance of the material declines throughout the semester. Only take this class if you truly want to learn more about health care in the US.
I feel like there are better classes on the subject of health care
Class provides a comprehensive look at the medical insurance system/medical equity system in the U.S. It's particularly interesting if you intend to work in the healthcare world after graduation. However, lectures can be dull...and sections even more deadbeat.
This class is an interesting way to learn about the healthcare system, even if you don't have a lot of exposure to public health or sociology.
The first part of the class is great. Then it goes downhill.
Honestly, this class requires major overhaul.  The overall subject matter is interesting but I would try to learn about it in a different course if possible.  The lectures were unorganized and Ruggie was not particularly stimulating, and the sections were just not helpful-- they felt like more of a competition than a learning experience and I think that this was a result of how it was organized rather than the students in the class themselves.
This course is good to be exposed to inequality from a variety of perspectives including:employer health insurance, Medicare/Medicaid, Physician availability, race, geographic location etc. However, since there are so many topics, you never quite get to dive into any single one and it can feel like some are getting short-changed. Still a great survey course that is not difficult.You'll have to do some writing for both midterms and the final, but nothing outrageous.My recommend "with reservations" comes from the section component of the course. This year it felt monotonous and I dreaded going to it every week. Linda Zhao passed section onto the students rather than running it as the TF.
This class assumes a fair amount of knowledge about the US healthcare system, and involves a fair amount of academic reading, which might be difficult for some to take on. In addition, if you are not a highly opinionated or argumentative person, it can be difficult to partake in class discussion,as you can easily be overshadowed by more vocal classmates.
I would tell them that this is a course that really opens your eyes to a lot of underlying issues plaguing our health care system and is interesting and engaging.
The more you read, the more you will get out of the course.  Students who expect to get the most out of the class should read all the suggested readings and the advanced readings.
try to find examples of class topics in the news to bring to discussion
Easy and fun, but not that useful.
This course addresses many of the difficult issues and potential solutions at the forefront of the health care debate.
It's an interesting class with a reasonable work load, not extremely difficult, and informative.
It is a great course for students who are interested in learning about the health care problems that face us both nationally and internationally
Great class for the secondary field in health policy, interesting and not very difficult
Very easy and interesting.  It makes you a more informed citizen and the information you learn in this class is applicable outside of Harvard.
Great, fun, informative course
this is a pretty interesting course for people seeking international health policy or humanitarian aid intervention careers
good introduction to health care system
Very interesting material that I think everyone should have a general familiarity with.
Soc 165 is such an eye-opening into health care. It has changed the way I look at society and its different components.
It's often tough to force yourself to go to lecture, but you don't really need to anyway.
You should really enjoy learning about inequalities, and be able to throw yourself into the material.  That was the most rewarding part for me
If you want to learn about health care, take Richard Frank's course instead. If you want to learn about inequalities, take this course.
This class is extremely interesting and engaging without involving a lot of work.
This course is great for understanding issues, but not necessarily arriving at solutions.
Great course!
Too unstructured, although it was great to get an understanding of the modern health care system.
If you want to know more about the health care system, you would probably be better off reading up on it yourself. This course was all over the place and lectures did little to clarify important themes.
I loved this class. It was extremely interesting.  Professor Ruggie is so passionate about the subject and really takes the time to explain and get a discussion.  Sometimes it does seem like her lectures go off on tangents, but it is usually interesting.
This course will inform you about the current state of health insurance in the US and how that relates to inequality.  It's not too much work and nothing seems to be unfairly graded.  Some parts of the course I found extremely interesting and others I found extremely dull, so not all parts of this course may be engaging for you but on balance it's probably worth it.  Reading is light.
A great class to take to learn about the American healthcare system and the new changes with the implementation of the PPACA. The class is very informative and relevant especially with current changes taking place. The material is very interesting and the work is very manageable.
This is a great course for expanding your knowledge about the U.S. healthcare system.
This is a great class. While it does not require much of you, you will get out of it what you put in. Professor Ruggie is extremely accessible and is great in general.
It was an interesting topic, and I definitely learned a lot about the health care system, but the course could have been a lot more organized, and the grading seemed arbitrarily difficult.
This is a fascinating course on a subject that everyone should have some knowledge of because it is incredibly relevant as major changes to the U.S. health care system are underway. Professor Ruggie is wonderful, and all of the lectures and readings are super interesting.
You learn so much about health care. Must take! Information that impacts everyone.
Grading was pretty harsh on the first midterm. I'm also unsure if the class substantially changed the way I think in any way. The class is more about learning concrete facts rather than offering a new framework to understand these issues. The first module of the course about the Affordable Care Act is probably why most people took this course. It's a shame that it was the less interesting portion of the class, but this is probably because health insurance is not as obviously exciting as other aspects of health inequality.
The amount of work you get in this class is manageable, but the grading on the midterms was a little harsh, in my opinion. Overall, I learned a ton about the Affordable Care Act, and that knowledge helped me in many debates I had with people this semester. Ben was a great TF and I could tell that he knew a lot about the material (it makes sense since he's been TF-ing this class for several years now).
Great course and interesting material. Not too much work and topics learned about are very prevalent to today's events.
This was an incredible course that gives students an insight into the greater healthcare system as a whole. Pre-med students will probably definitely find this interesting, since it offers a break from the traditional sciences and illuminates issues that are not often given immediate attention to.
It's not an easy, blowoff class.  Nor is it an unreasonable, super challenging class.  I think it has the right balance of work!  I personally spent a lot of time towards the beginning of the semester learning how to read about policy and actually understand it as it is very complicated.  However, it's worth the effort to learn.  You have all the materials, all the guidance you need (wonderful professor & TFs); use them!  Go to section (super helpful) to discuss what you liked best about the readings (and also watch a few really interesting health-related videos, if you have Ben - I don't know about our other TF, Anny), office hours if you can, to enrich your learning, and enjoy the course!
I learned a lot about policy and it made me feel like an informed citizen. It was great learning about the ACA and Medicare/Medicaid. The last parts of the class got just a bit boring but overall it was great! I highly recommend it if you are interested in Health Care at all. Mary Ruggie is such a wonderful professor and so energetic and passionate about what she teaches.
The first half is great! The second half was a bit abstract and too general. But if you want to understand domestic healthcare then I definitely recommend it!
This is a good course if you want to learn about a lot of detailed information about health policy (first half). The second half deals more with sociological issues like discrimination, inequalities, etc. The material can sometimes feel repetitive, but overall very interesting and definitely changes the way that you look at the health care system.
If you don't have much background in healthcare, this would be a great, friendly way to begin. Professor Ruggie is so kind and welcoming. Sometimes I wished that the readings and lectures would have been more focused.
This course can be hit or miss at times. We learned a great deal about the Affordable Care Act and I am a more informed citizen as a result of it.
This class gives a pretty basic introduction to American healthcare. The lectures are easy to follow, and the grading is reasonable.
This is an interesting class for those interested in the social aspect of health and healthcare. However, it is also a bit disorganized and potentially frustrating in the breath, rather than depth, of subjects that are discussed
This was a good class if you are very interested in health care system. I went to every lecture and section but still don't feel I retained much from the course.
The class is not demanding at all.  The essays are very manageable and the final project is a great way to learn about health while working with other people in the class.  You will be surprised by how much you will learn in this class about the health insurance and health care system.  Also the issues of race and socioeconomic status play a surprisingly important role.  The professor is very engaging and very passionate about her class, making sure to get everyone to participate during lectures.
This course clearly leans to the left (as do I), which made me uncomfortable at times.  However, it gives a clear picture of health care in America and provokes interesting discussion.
The class is interesting, and Prof. Ruggie is a great professor, but there is a lack of structure sometimes in the class that can be frustrating.
Pretty easy, also pretty boring
while interesting, the first part of this class is policy focused. as a sociology concentrator, i was disappointed that we didn't talk much about sociological issues with healthcare and practices. if you want to learn how the government works regarding healthcare and poverty, take this class. the assignments weren't always clear and it was hard to tell what was expected of us.
Overall a good class. The readings are interesting and the essay assignments and group project help you synthesize the material and formulate your own policy opinions. I only wish the lectures had incorporated more of the case studies and detail that were present in the readings. Sometimes lecture was so general it seemed pointless. However, I like Professor Ruggie a great deal and she's the rare type of professor that wants to get to know each and every student. Do most of the readings and speak up.
This course is easy, but relatively boring. I wouldn't recommend taking it if you are passionate about global health - there are better electives that can be taken to fulfill secondary field requirements.
Easy and interesting. Discusses the social determinants of health. The professor is very passionate about the topic and covers very engaging topics.
While the material was  interesting, and I learned about the health care system, I feel like the course really only brushed the surface of many of the topics covered. I wish we could have gone into greater depth on certain topics.
This class is really relaxed and very interesting - all the assignments are take home and the subject material is really interesting! Even though it can get a bit depressing at times, it's really good knowledge to have
I'm not a sociology major but I found this class quite interesting. It teaches you a lot of good information surrounding the health care industry and the present issues that exist. I would recommend it for anyone who is thinking of entering the field of health care.
Can be a very good class if you're motivated to go to all the lectures and do all the readings. Unfortunately, the structure of the class (no exams, just papers that don't really require you to go to class) means that if you're not highly motivated, you probably won't learn very much. Having said that, the class is pretty easy and a low time commitment. Good elective.
It is easy to do well, but difficult to do very well.  Also, the course particularly lectures and sections are EXTREMELY boring.  The class is interesting material, but it needs to be presented better.
You don't learn a ton from this class especially if you already know something about healthcare and poverty. That said, it's a great class to add to your schedule if you want a relatively easy elective.
If you're interested in learning about the details and concerns of our health care system, including the nitty-gritty aspects, you'll likely appreciate this course. Otherwise, you'll probably be quite bored. And if you have more conservative or libertarian views, don't expect them to be well represented in the course material or appreciated in your papers.
If you're interested in health care as it affects the population (as a premed, someone interested in policy, etc.) definitely take this class. Professor Ruggie is so passionate and knowledgable, and she really cares about her students.
This is a great way to learn about health care and the health issues of today and the course is not too stressful.
Professor Ruggie is a good lecturer, and this course is a solid introduction to health policy in the US.  Great syllabus with informative readings, and wonderful lectures on Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP. Other than that, it's a general overview of key public health challenges and health disparities (great critical thinking on why/how these disparities arise)-- good for beginners, but a word of caution if you're already relatively familiar with US health policy.
Professor Ruggie and the TF are both very liberal, so keep that in mind. It is a pretty painless class. As long as you agree with their views in papers, you should be fine. Participate in class because Professor Ruggie remembers your names. This class had made me much more aware about the inequalities in healthcare in the US and I can speak much more intellectually about the issue.
Its a pretty straightforward class, the workload is very manageable.
Do the readings. They really give so much insight for the course and allow you to benefit from conversation in lecture and section. Take this class if you want a better understanding of true state of the U.S healthcare system. The greatest thing about this class is that it teaches you to intelligently question the common portrayals we see in society today. And you leave with a greater understanding of how every societal problem is a result of a multitude of interplaying factors. If you've taken USW 11, this is a great supplement.
Two major structural changes need to be made. 1- making a tf whose strength isn't teaching grade and lead 5 sections isn't fair. Hire more tfs. 2- the class needs to have back and forth. I strongly belive this as gealthcare is not a spectator sport, nor is it unontroversial. So I shouldn't feel as though there's a right answer. Now particulars- The professor has some odd moments. She's a close talker, she's kinda weird, but her heart's in the right place. But too often she seems to make ou feel as tjough your opinion doesn't matter if it isn't seen as the "right" one. Not out of malice- it comes from strongly held beliefs she has about equality and access. But I think she needs to make people feel like she's willingto hear another, (respectful, thought out, none of that half-assed but the poors are lazy! Crap, I mean but there is a problem with looking at he isue this way sort of stuff). Also, I  guarantee youthat there are like five students, tops, tht will give tis class amazing ratings. Those are her favorite students. I shouldn't know that.This has been all negative, but there are positives- no other class will ground you as well in the issues in healthcare as this one will. You will walk away informed. If you want to be able to have a competent conversation about healthcare, even with the above complaints, take this class.
Easy. Journal article readings and 1 hour lecture twice a week. Ruggie is passionate but pretty much reads off slides for the class period. Easy to do nothing during the semester until papers - 3 papers 1 final paper. The writing is easy if you use her lecture slides/the articles. Overall interesting topic, and easy elective.
This is a great class to take if you're looking for an easy and interesting elective. Professor Ruggie's passion for solving America's health care problems keeps lecture exciting.
Very good class to get an introduction to the problems that we face as a society in terms of healthcare and healthcare delivery. It may be frustrating to some because the material can be presented in a politically biased way that may be distracting.
This class is only for those who have a genuine interest in the field of health care. Professor Ruggie is great, but you have to be willing to stretch yourself and go beyond what is presented in lecture to really do well. The course works under some liberal basic assumptions which, if you don't agree, will be hard to argue against. Other than that, the course is well taught and will help you to understand this important area of study in much greater detail.
there are much better health courses like soc190; the professor is passionate but i found the analysis of health topics totally superficial and the lectures uninformative
You do not have to do any of the week to week readings. There are only four papers all semester (you can read the relevant articles when papers are due and still do really well in the class).
The professor is too disorganized to get much out of lecture. Her grading is confused and frustrating. Avoid if possible.
Interesting course.
A great class and interesting subject.  Learned a lot about something very confusing
This class provides a good overview of the various health care inequalities in the US.
The class is a fairly broad overview of the inequalities in the US HC system. Unfortunately, it is presented in laundry list fashion without a good analysis of how they are linked to each other. Many of the reasons are obvious. THere are some that are not, but the class doesn't seem to spend more time on the interesting reasons than the obvious ones. Lectures tended to always run long, so some of the material at the end got cut off. I don't think that this was actually a big deal, but it was a little frustrating. On a few occasions the professor seemed to have trouble answering questions posed by some of the students. Having discussed with several other students, exam grades seemed to be correlated with how closely the exam writings agreed with the professor's beliefs, rather than the rigor of the paper's argument. Can't say for sure though as this is only from a small sample.
This was a great class with a lot of real world implications. It certainly made the esoteric world that is healthcare a bit more navigable to me.
This course offers a very relaxed setting with a clear focus on better understanding health care in America.
very chill class and lots of relevant information... take it
Great overview of health disparities in the US.
It is a very interesting class and makes you take a second look at your own views in life.
The teacher is very entertaining, sometimes she's even a little over the top. This is definitely a class where you'll have the chance to speak up and learn interesting things that are helpful in analyzing issues even outside of the healthcare system.
Not the most interesting material to deal with but the organization of the course makes it fun.
This is a very easy class about healthcare. However, it is really biased and you will only learn about one side of hte debates.
Its a good course and covers a lot but the teaching is a little haphazard. Very enthusiastically taught but I thought there would be more talk on the current health care bill. However, it gives a very strong account of the past of US healthcare which is of course important to understanding the problems that exist now.
Painless way to learn about a very interesting and relevant topic. Intriguing and manageable readings and assignments, dedicated and enthusiastic professor.
Loved, loved ,loved this class. Mary Ruggie is a talented, passionate professor who knows how to integrate multiple fields into her own teaching. She is very helpful and understanding and the class material was extremely relevant and interesting.
I recommend this class to everyone because it gives a great overview of the healthcare system and the changes being implemented. Really you come out of the class a more informed, thoughtful citizen. Plus, Professor Ruggie is really passionate about the material, which is interesting, varied, and useful.
Health care policy is interesting, but the course is a little dry and somewhat repetitive.
This class was simply amazing. It truly broadened my mindset and improved my understanding of a very complex subject.
The professor likes to pretend she has medical knowledge but she is a sociologist. You cannot take everything she says as truth.
You probably shouldn't take this class if you've taken other classes in American health care or policy.  I took Soc 190 and EDC 186, and almost everything covered in this class was covered in those, so it was repetitive.
The material is very relevant to current discussions in US health and economic policy; I would also encourage participation in lectures and sections - ask questions when there is a concept you would like clarified or expanded on.
I would tell students not to be bogged down by the readings.  Focus on a few from each topic and thoroughly skim the rest.
Do the reading or you will not remember what you were taught - doing the reading is the most active component of the course.
This class is an interesting, low-stress course with valuable real world applications.
This class is a really great overview of inequalities that exist in health care, mostly in the United States but some global issues as well.
you should be very interested in this course
This is a great course to take! It's a very good introduction to the types of healthcare available and the difficulties that America (along with other nations) face because of the inequalities that exist. I highly recommend it!
fun, engaging, interesting, Professor Ruggie is very enthusuastic
You have to really be interested in the topic and push yourself to do the readings and be engaged in class if you want to get something out of it.
I didn't mind taking this class.  It wasn't super interesting or super compelling (especially taking it during the health care debate of 2009).  It was just okay.  Take something else if it compels you more.
Interest in healthcare would encourage me to recommend this course
great course on health care
This class is great if you have an interest in the material.  Even if you don't have an interest in health care, it is still a great course. Health care is an important topic for everyone to have at least a bit of knowledge about.
This class covers very important material that anyone interested in health policy, public policy, or medicine should know.  It gives a comprehensive overview of health insurance and other forms of welfare, including private and public insurance, health care provision, and welfare, in the US, and looks at inequalities in health based on race, gender, age, medical status, and socioeconomic class.  However, this extremely important material is taught in a less critical way with a lot of references to "figure things out on your own".  This class leaves you with many statistics and many unresolved questions about the causes of these statistics, and it could be taught in a more engaging way.
A lot of reading that seems too specific for the course, but gives a great overview of the healthcare systems and its problems.
The class doesnt have very much work, and teaches you a lot about healthcare.
I would tell them that this course was extremely interesting and provided me with key insights into the current medical healthcare debate that is ensuing in America.
n/a
Very biased but interesting.
you will hear only one perspective and see data uncritically presented.  dissent will not be tolerated, really, even if it is polite and well reasoned.  the most vocal conservative in our class dropped the course for this reason.  you will be presented with problems but few solutions.
keep up with the readings and the lectures are very engaging
The subject matter, Prof. Ruggie, and TFs are involved and passionate, but the assignments and lectures are poorly organized, and it is frustrating to not be able to fully express myself on midterm papers because of the word limits and strict prompts.
(See above comments)
Like any moderately easy class, there's a lot of pressure to do well. 70 people can't get A's
If you have taken AAAS 197 with David Williams or Sociology 190, this class may seem like a repeat. It is a good introduction however.
This class offers lots of information about an important and timely topic, if you are motivated to do all of the readings, but the assignments do not require you to do all the readings so it is easy to slack off.  It is an easy class but if you want it to be truly rewarding you have to self-motivate.
If you need a gut course, you might as well go along with this one.  The material is pretty interesting, but the structure of the class does not incentivize learning or doing the readings. It's easy to get away with just doing the take home midterms.
I would say the lectures can be a little frustrating since they are so biased.
politically biased
If you know nothing about health policy, it's a fair introduction if you're willing to put in the effort. If you know a lot, better to save the course slot for something else and use the time to read policy briefs or articles yourself.
It is an interesting introduction to the American health care system, told through the lens of different types of health and health care inequalities. The workload is manageable, and the TFs do a good job of teaching additional concepts that deepen and enrich the course material. Section discussions are fun and interesting. However, if your political views lean right, you may be frustrated during lectures--there were definitely some people who were always trying to contradict the professor. Also, if you're looking for an in-depth view of current health reform plans and options, that really isn't the focus of this course.
everyone should learn about the inequalities that many people in our country must deal with in regards to healthcare.  Learning about Medicaid, Medicare, and other government sponsored programs is very important to know about as an American citizen.
Lecture can get a bit repetitive at times.
This is a great place to learn about health care in general, but since it's a sociology class, you'll also learn a lot about how health intersects with poverty, and how complicated it is to approach these issues.
Pretty standard sociology class. Engaging and accessible professor.
The professor is only interested in putting forth her agenda.  She is not receptive to debate and has a difficult time answering questions that challenge her opinion.
I think it is valuable to take a course on health care but I found the course a bit biased and not very academic
It's a great class because it is applicable and very relevant to what is going on in the health care spectrum today.
This class covers information that is important to know. By the end it gets pretty repetitive though, and the lectures are given from a very liberal standpoint.
The lectures had interesting material that is very relevant to today's USA, but that was presented in a dry manner.
just pay attention in lecture!
This course opens your eyes to the ills of the United States health care system. It was very timely considering the current health care debate, but will helpful for students for many years to come.
This is a very low workload, chill class that will allow you to learn the inns and outs of Medicare, Medicaid and the ACA (useful knowledge for all!). It will also open your eyes up to some of the injustices in the health care system and change the way you view the provision of care to the nation's poorest populations. Exams are relatively predictable, and the take-homes were especially easy to prepare for. You do not need to complete all the readings week to week.
This course was interesting and well taught. I took this class because it sounded cool but by the end, this actually made me interested in Global Health and Health Policy as a secondary.
I loved everything I learned in this class! I don't think my grades always reflected the amount of work I put into the class, but at the end of the day, I'm glad I took it for the enriching information I learned about the US healthcare system.
If you're looking for a chill class, this is not the one. But if you're really curious about healthcare in the US (Obamacare, how poverty affects healthcare outcomes, etc), it's a solid class
Don't take this course unless you have knowledge of the health care system and of the expectations in the sociology discipline
TAKE THIS COURSE YOU WILL LEARN SO MUCH AND ITS SO INTERESTING AND PROFESSOR RUGGIE IS AMAZING.
This class is applicable to everybody and it teaches you a lot about the healthcare system and how everything works. Professor Ruggie is fantastic, but sometimes sections feels useless.
This class started off strong for me with lectures about healthcare policy ranging from the ACA to Medicare and Medicaid. I loved learning that stuff, but after you learn the basics of the American health care system, the class goes in an entirely different direction. You start talking in vague terms about vulnerable groups and biases that are obviously important, but very low in actual substance. I ended up finding the 75% of the class's content pretty uninteresting. I don't recommend taking this class unless you're sure you like the kind of sociological investigations that involve this content-less, loosey-goosey stuff. Some people like the class, I definitely didn't, because I wanted something different out of it. If you're hoping to learn about health care in a real way for a whole semester than this isn't for you.
I would like to tell future students that this course is extremely rewarding and will beautifully open your eyes to the rampant disparities that still persist in healthcare in America. It's so easy to think of health issues in other countries, but the United States has a lot of problems when it comes to treating disease and preventing illness. This class will help you become an informed, caring, and intellectual citizen.
This is a really interesting course for students like me who have a strong interest in US healthcare policy. I wouldn't recommend taking this class if you don't have interest in that because you will find the readings very boring and long. However, this is an amazing class if you are curious about the ACA and what the US healthcare landscape looks like right now. There are way too many readings but you can also get by without doing them all.
I would not recommend the course due to the TFs grading policy
It gives you insight on the health care system in America but the assignments may be more confusing than expected and participation is graded harshly.
I think all premeds can strongly benefit from this course. Everything that is discussed is crucial for future physicians to know because really do premeds learn about the social side of health care. You learn a lot about private and public health insurance, which is again important for premeds, but also for all of us college age students who can be under our parents' health insurance until 26 (something good that came with Obamacare!). We will all need to be aware of at least some of these details in life. Why not learn it now?

More specifically, I suggest taking notes when reading and outlining everything you know about each topic for the exams. Take the exams seriously because specific details are needed.
This class has a very low workload, but gives you a broad overview of key topics within the healthcare system, such as various types of insurance and the Affordable Care Act, which you spend a whole month on. Then you discuss vulnerable groups and the health challenges they face. Over the course of the semester, the exams focused more on policy analysis / recommendations which I enjoyed. Overall, a decent, not too difficult class that allows you to become more familiar with the healthcare system. However, the TF really emphasized section participation and had an overly strict method of grading it. But the TF may change for next year.
