It is sort of boring but necessary to take if you're a sociology concentrator. Try to form study groups and ask professor marsden questions because he is the only person in the course who can really explain things well.
lectures are boring, sections are not helpful
That it is easy and painless and a good way to fulfill a stats requirement for sociology or social studies.
it's a painless way to get your social studies statistics requirement out of the way, especially if you aren't great with math and want to learn a very applicable form of statistical theory for an empirical based thesis.
Even if you are not a math person, this class is a wonderful way to return to this subject matter. It was not only engaging, but quite refreshing to learn course material that was so concrete, but more importantly, explained so well and had information and explanations that were so easily accessible.
This class is necessarily boring, but otherwise essentially painless
Better than most statistics courses
It is not the most exciting course material, but Professor Marsden does a nice job making it as interesting as possible.  Despite the at times tedious work, it helps you truly master the material and will prove very helpful in understanding sociological findings.
This class is a great opportunity to gain statistical competency and to be able to understand research involving statistical methods.
This class is very necessary and useful for sociology and provides a good mathematic background to sociological study.
This is a great class for those who consider themselves "mathematically challenged"; other people who are more into math might want to take one of the STATS courses, but..this worked really well for me!
A manageable and moderately interesting way to fulfill a concentration requirement
The Professor is excellent and really generates understanding and enthusiasm of the course. I've heard it's the best stats course for sociology & social studies majors. It was pretty good, even if you don't like math.
Professor Marsden does a decent job of trying to generate enthusiasm for what is really a very dry subject. The workload is probably above average because it combines problem sets and exams with papers that apply the concepts, but the course overall is not terribly difficult, and a good way to satisfy a stats requirement for social studies concentrators.
Don't take it unless it is required. It is time consuming and not very interesting.
its required, and not that bad
There are many assignments and it is not an easy course
Sociology majors have to take it. You'll learn about Stats, but it won't be pleasant.
A lot of work and time must be put into this class.
The course is very assignment heavy, which can be both good and bad. It's good because you have many chances to improve your grade (through problem sets, exams, etc.). It is bad because the sheer amount of assignments can get annoying.
Don't take this class unless you absolutely have to for the Sociology concentration.
Don't be afraid to ask questions early if you do not understand something because the early is the foundation for the rest of the course.
don't bomb the midterm
Only take it if you have to.
hire an outside tutor immediately
i just don't like math.  im sure its fun if this is the kind of stuff you can get into
It's really good because you learn a lot but it's not super hard either.
If you need it for your concentration take it, other than that it's a lot of work if you don't absolutely need to take it.
Don't wait until the night before an assignment is due to start
It's a good course if you are willing to put in the time every part of the way.
Great professor, but boring (although necessary for the concentration) material.
Its dry but required
I found this course to be work-intensive and I often didn't really understand the applications of the class material to real-world scenarios.
Take this course if you are sure that you are going to concentrate in Sociology.  It is not a good indication of other Sociology courses offered at Harvard.
Go to sections and work with others on the problem sets.
If you're looking to take an introductory statistics class- this is the one. The professor and section leaders are able to make bland material interesting!
If it's not too late, take Stat 104 instead. This class is terribly taught and hopefully the concentration will change it soon. If you have to take it, just keep up with the assignments, go to lecture/section if it's helpful to you, and prepare to learn the material on your own.
TAKE A DIFFERENT STATS CLASS! Seriously. This was possibly the worst class I've taken here. I learned almost nothing.
I am so sorry if you have to take this class. For someone who doesn't mind math, this class was awful. The teaching was terrible, the tests were too long for the time allotted, and both section leaders were ineffective. I ended up teaching myself. Take another Stats class if you can get it to count for Sociology.
this class isn't hard. just read the book and you'll be fine. the problem sets generally aren't bad, but some are really long.
Don't take this class! Take Stat 100 or 104 instead. This class is very poorly run, there is no feedback or answer keys to problem sets, and lecture and section is unnecessary. Save yourself stress and frustration and take another statistics class.
Do not take this course if you have any interest in learning about the depth of statistics. Take stat 104 and an extra sociology class is possible.
Read before lecture and work hard on the psets because it helps you learn the material.
It's an interesting course for Sociology concentrators, but if you aren't concentrating in sociology, it might be better to find another statistics course.
I hated this class but you have to take it anyway... definitely not worth going to lecture.
This class was terrible in every way. Moynihan should not have taught an intro statistics class and should never in the future. It was not easy to follow, should not be taught in a lecture format by him or anyone, and should be taught by someone with the expertise to deliver introductory information to students who need it for their concentration. This class should be only for students with no prior statistics knowledge, and students who have taken stats should not be allowed to take it with intro-level students, because there were people in the class taking stats for at least a second time unfairly with people who had never seen it before and threw off the curve. I had a peer tutor for this class (and in fact at least one other student equally struggling actually THANKED me for telling her I had gotten a peer tutor because she then got one) and stopped going after about two weeks because attending lectures was actually so painfully difficult to understand that I taught myself solely through the book and tutor. As an intro-level class, this class also needs to be taught by TFs who are native English speakers and can convey ideas simply and in an easily understandable manner - it was completely unacceptable that the TFs for this intro class were so terrible, that again I stopped attending section because it was no help at all. The sociology department should be ashamed to have offered this course while denying us the ability to take another stats class as a substitute; if this is the intro course offered then it needs to live up to the standards of a basic stats class to give us a solid understanding of necessary material for sociology (including future thesis work), and in even the basics it failed. This course makes me so disappointed in the department - just replace it with someone who knows how to teach, or let us take another stats class like 100, and don't put kids who have already taken stats in with the rest of us, it's just not fair. By far the worst class I've ever taken or will take at Harvard. And such a shame, because I really wanted a firm understanding of statistics as part of my college education upon graduating.
It's a required class and the only way to make it easier is to do problem sets with friends or at least compare answers.
I recommend because it is required of sociology concentrators, but the methods can be a bit confusing.  It's not terrible, but don't get lost or left behind.  Stay on top of the material, as things can get tricky.
The book will be your best friend because they speed through lectures so quickly it's impossible to get it all down. If you are good with numbers, learning independently will be fine. If you're not good with numbers, get a tutor because this class is not as friendly to people new to stats
Need to take the class for Sociology; it isn't a great class, but definitely not as bad as LS1b or Ec10. Moynihan is accessible via office hours and is really good at explaining confusing concepts one on one, even if your TF isn't stellar. The teaching staff are all flexible and understand that the class isn't your top priority. They make the best of a course that probably wouldn't be particularly compelling under any circumstance.
Take stat 104. Seriously. Better yet, find the gov course at the Kennedy school. Way easier.
Take Stats 104, you'll learn more
This course will teach you very useful/practical material that will make your life easier in future courses. It is a fair amount of work (1 pset per week, plus textbook reading, plus midterm/final and two essays), BUT the grading is very fair and the assignments are helpful, so you will be happy (at the end of the semester) that you took it.
Neither lectures nor sections are required, but you can easily keep up with the class from weekly reading of the text. Very doable workload. But it's a very dry field, so I would only take it if you're a Soc major.
Make sure you do the textbook readings (if you haven't had a math/stats class in a while). I recommend it to Soc concentrators more than, say, Stat 104, because the course is focuses on statistical analysis in the social sciences.
Keep up with the work and go to section even though it's optional
This class if pretty awful. Lectures are pretty painful, section is not the best, the book is the best resource, and the papers take WAY longer than you would expect.
The class is fine. It won't excite you, but it's not that bad either.
Get your statistics requirement out of the way beforehand. This is the most pointless, arbitrary class I have taken in my academic career and each assignment pained me greatly.
This course is a fine introduction to statistics for sociology concentrators. The TFs do their best to make sure you understand the material, reviewing material in sections and holding a lot of review sessions. The lectures themselves were a bit disorganized and it was hard to get things out of them so it really takes a lot of personal studying/reviewing to get the material.
This was a hard class for someone without a Statistics background.
It teaches you a lot an is essential if you are a social science concentrator but it would not be the first class I would take if I didn't have to...although you do learn a lot from it
it's kind of boring but ultimately the information is very useful!
A big workload, but the class overall is fairly manageable.
They actually do a good job trying to make the class interesting, relevant to sociology concentrators, and as painless/straightforward as possible. I certainly wouldn't take it if you don't have to, but if you do have to, there's no reason to dread it.
it's a drag, but the teaching staff is great and will help you
only take it if it's required
It is a lot of work and easy to fall behind in
You have to take it as a sociology major.
It was definitely a struggle for me, but mainly because I was less invested than I should have been. Honestly speaking, the concepts and math you learn are not that difficult and do not require inordinate amounts of time. Just go into it with a positive attitude and keep up with problem sets and you should be fine. Section is extremely important and was where I learned the most.
For a sociology concentrator, it's a good break to have psets instead of essays and readings all the time. The course helped me look at tables and graphs that I encounter in other courses as well.
You will learn a lot about statistics from this course. If you are a sociology concentrator, I highly recommend taking this course, since the coursework is relevant to what you as a sociologist would do if you were to conduct a sociological research on your own.
Go to office hours with Deirdre Bloome. She is a phenomenal TF!
The course is very easy to fall behind in, at each lecture more material is learned and it is all cumulative.  If by chance you find yourself missing lecture, then you HAVE to attend section and definitely read the textbook since it has very helpful worked examples.  It would be a foolish mistake to not go to lecture or section and then not read the textbook, you will regret it.
If you took AP Statistics, you've already taken 75% of this class.
If you're a soc concentrator you gotta take it.  Just know it's not that bad as long as you keep up with the material.  If you drop off the face of the earth for two weeks, good luck catching up.  Marsden may sound like he's taught the course 8,204,851 times (which he has) but he is very clear.  You will also be able to read soc papers and understand what the stats mean.
The textbook is horrible and the material is a frustrating mix of being easy yet poorly explained and so utterly confusing.
the class is not difficult -- it's just extremely boring, especially for those who have taken statistics in the past and who, because of this background knowledge, had little motivation to be invested in the work
It's a great class if you want to cover basic statistics. I'm pretty sure the material is the same as in Stats 104, just went about in different ways in application. I'd recommend it especially for humanities people who are afraid of numbers.
Stats is a boring requirement you have to struggle through but this class could be worse.  They try hard to make it easier for you.
You have to take it though so no point in complaining. Just make sure you always go to section and do the reading and the class will be easier. Also take advantage of office hours.
Even though it's a requirement, you make of it what you want. If you put the effort into it, you come to lecture and pay attention, you come to section and pay attention, you come to professor's office hours (trust me, he's sooooooooooooo helpful and the nicest) and the TF's office hours (hands down BEST TF EVER!!!!!!!!, no lie, everyone who has had him knows it), then you will learn A LOT and actually retain the information and it'll become rewarding and interesting.
Prepare yourself and get a tutor before you even sign up. If you are not a Sociology concentrator, DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.
This class is difficult and be prepared to do a lot of week in terms of problem sets and papers, knowing stats before is a great help.
recommend only if taken as a requirement
If you can take a different stat course, do it.
This class sucks. Yes it's improved in comparison to past years, but be prepared to be extremely frustrated over psets and feel very confused.
I would only recommend this course to those who have to take it as Sociology concentrators.
Take Stat 104 or another class that fulfills the statistics requirement. I wish I had taken a class where I left with real statistics knowledge.
It is slow, but useful.
Don't fear statistics and quantitative methods if you take this with Western. He is kind, caring and totally accessible. He and his TF work well together to not scare off and stress you and expose you to how amazing quantitative methods (really) can be.
This class is not fun. But its also not a GPA killer. If you ask the TF the right questions about the psets, you can get at least a 9/10 on all of them. Which means that its not that hard to do well in the  class. Not having a final was also nice
I mean it is a stat class so it is not going to rock your world, but it is interesting to see statistics in practice.  Bruce really cares about this material and these skills and does a great job of trying to generate enthusiasm in the classroom.
Take Stat 104 before declaring Sociology so that you don't have to take this course.
The theory taught during lectures are much less important than the actual hands-on work on Stata. Just make sure you can understand those outputs and you'll be fine!
Read the book! At least skim it- the class will make more sense to you.
If you're looking for a generic statistics class, this class is definitely not the one to choose. This class is catered specifically toward sociology, and it is taught in a way that is too narrow to be applied to many fields.
I think it is better to take a stats course to really learn about statistics.
This is a somewhat painful way to learn statistics. You do learn the material, but mostly from going to section and having the code fed to you. It's not hard to get a good grade, but it is hard to gain a conceptual mastery of the material.
Take stat 104
Don't take this class unless it is a concentration requirement, or you enjoy slowly torturing yourself
This is a great, useful course by a great professor.  If you pay attention to the implications of the data it makes it really interesting as well.  Go to lecture and do the book readings for the first half of the semester (so you understand all the theory behind the Stata stuff you do in the second part of the semester) and you will be fine.  I was really scared this was going to be a brutal course b/c of past Q-evals (which were for a different prof) and b/c I hadn't taken AP Stat in high school but ended really enjoying this course.
good for a stats background
Don't do this unless you have to.
The most important thing for this class is to follow along in the textbook -- lectures and sections can get confusing, but the course is very clearly structured around the textbook
Stats you gotta do it. Definitely not super interesting in any way but important to learn
statistics is really hard - i hope you have a background in it or you'll perpetually be confused.
This course has not had the best rep in the past but this year I think it was really good. Mazen is a beyond awesome TF who cares so much about the course. Go to his OHs for help on the problem sets bc they can be a bit confusing. It is exciting to see how this all applies to your own research in the junior tutorial, so pay attention since all of this info will be needed.
I only took this course because I had tootherwise I probably wouldn't have taken it.
Pretty good class if you're planning to write a sociology thesis. The material isn't too difficult to understand. The work is not necessarily confusing, just time-consuming.
Although this course isn't necessarily extremely exciting, it will train you well for future research endeavors, whether it's for sociology or something else. Definitely take your time to go through the psets thoroughly. Exams were tight on time.
This course is woefully dry. The teaching staff was incredibly enthusiastic, but a bit out of touch with the class. The midterm was too long to be completed in the allotted time, examples on the lecture slides had calculation errors, and often section failed to touch on pertinent information. The willingness of the TFs and professor to be helpful did not compensate for the snags and organizational difficulties that reliably cropped up along the way.
You will learn a lot about statistics. It is less painful than you would expect if you've never taken statistics before.
My only reason for taking this class was that taking a STAT instead would add an extra concentration requirement. I don't think I've talked to anyone that really enjoyed this class. I feel that, even as a non-math person, taking a class that engaged more with mathematical concepts would've been worthwhile. I feel like I was given a cursory glance at how sociologists use statistics without even beginning to really understand statistics. If you haven't declared sociology yet, you might be able to take a STAT 100-level without getting burned when you do declare.
The material of the course was very well-structured. The content built upon itself in a very logical way that made it easier to understand, and focus was placed on the concepts and tools that would be most helpful to social scientists. The teaching staff were all invested and caring and seemed to be in very good communication with one another. If you don't anticipate being required to take a statistics course for your concentration or secondary, I would recommend this class to fulfill the EMR Gen-Ed.
This class is difficult and very confusing throughout. I took it because it is a sociology requirement. You will survive; but it is not very enjoyable material.
Don't get behind!  I would only take this class if you are totally sure you want to go into sociology.  I realized this semester that I want to go more humanities and was left wishing i took a different math gen ed.
This class is one of the best examples of where a math concept can be applied to real world examples and where you'll actually practice what you learn.
Don't be afriad to ask the professor questions. He loves it when students engage with him in class. He is really excited about the subject and making sure the information he is giving makes as much sense as possible.
Just make sure to stay on top of your work and actually go to lecture. Otherwise you will fall behind and spend more time on the class than you would if you had just gone to lecture.
Professor Rytina is not helpful and just complicates everything. The course itself is fairly easy, but he makes things way more difficult than they need to be. If you are taking this course for the Sociology requirement, I would recommend taking Stat100 and just doing the extra elective because if he is the professor, the course really isn't worth it.
The professor this year was new and extremely ineffective. Although his intentions were good, his lectures made me more confused than if I had jut read the textbook. However,it's a very easy class overall and the final project and the exams are very doable. Take this class over the other Stat classes.
Without a doubt, the most disappointing course I've taken in college.  If it weren't for the TF Meghan, I would have dropped out of this course a long time ago. For one, lecture was taught really confusingly: the professor seems like a very smart person and nice guy, but is not great at teaching the material in a way that students who have not seen the material before can understand.  One example is that he would go off on tangents during lecture to more complex material that we didn't understand.  I basically ended up teaching myself the material from the book instead.We also usually did not finish classes on time and constantly fell behind on material. The most frustrating part was that by the end of the first month, basically 1/3 of students were coming to lecture but the professor did not make any noticeable efforts to improve his teaching.  Finally, during the final exam, the professor forgot to print off the formula sheets, so we had to start 30 minutes late and still finish on time--this has never happened in any other course I've taken, and it definitely threw many of us off.Other things you might want to think about for this class: there aren't any graded psets, only practice problems. If you aren't the type who can self-motivate yourself to study and keep up with the material because lectures aren't recorded, the exams will hit you out of left field.  But if you'er self-motivated, this course is a lower workload than other stat courses, since the writing assignments are pretty straightforward and are the only required assignments.The only positive thing about this class was Meghan (the TF).  Her sections were super helpful for better understanding the material, and she always went out of her way to help us if needed.  She basically saved this course, and I wish she had been the lecturer for this course instead.Other students I've talked to agree that we are all disappointed with the sociology department for offering such a poorly taught required course to its concentrators.  Unless they make changes, I'd recommend taking another intro stat course.
This is a great class if you want to fulfill your math requirement while gaining some knowledge of statistics that will be useful throughout the rest of your college experience. The real-world examples made the course feel useful and relevant. Be prepared, however, to learn statistics from the textbook as the lectures are not very helpful. You should keep up with the problem sets even though they are not graded because they are essential to learning the course material.
Rytina is the worst professor on this campus. Enormous tragedy that he even works here. As a Sociology concentrator I had to take this class but it is one of my life's greatest regrets. The lectures are beyond painful, his teaching will un-teach you the material because he overcomplicates the simplest concepts and cannot even perform problems correctly on the blackboard. The only saving grace is the TF Meghan who will spell out the concepts in a way a social science concentrator can understand. Would not recommend!!!!!
I was excited going into this class because its precursor, Soc 128, was very enjoyable though the material is dry because the professor was wonderful. This class could not be more different from Soc 128. The powerpoint slides are incredibly helpful, but they seem to be used in lectures as nothing more than a decorative backdrop to the professor's talking. The only reason I took this class was because it's required for my concentration. I absolutely love sociology and wouldn't change concentrations for the world, but my concentration is the only reason I can fathom to take this course in retrospect. Please don't let this class turn you off sociology because it's a wonderful concentration that's done a great disservice by this class. But go into Soc 156 knowing you're likely to be frustrated with the instructor and heavily reliant on the TF to make the material actually seem coherent to you. It's not difficult material, but it's a difficult class to put up with.
Do not take this class if Rytina is teaching. The TF Meghan was an absolute saving grace and extremely helpful-- go to her office hours. Do not feel bad about skipping lecture if it does not help you or if you cannot pay attention. I stressed so much about not staying on top of this course but I ended up being okay because I did the practice exams and other people did worse than me so the curve helped me out. Not hard material but you need to find a way to understand and learn it that works for you.
This class was quite unclear and frustrating. Professor Rytina was a disorganized and unclear lecturer, especially when it came to minute details and formulas, and by the midpoint of the semester over half of the class did not regularly attend lecture or the optional section. Section was the one saving grace -- Meghan really helped to work on your paper and understand the concepts that were unclear during lecture. I also would not buy the textbook, as I never used it during the entire semester.
This is a tough choice to make because while I would not suggest this class, I know that it is required.
This class isn't hard if you communicate with the teachers and eventually do the practice problems.
If I had space in my schedule, I would have considered Stat104 over this course, despite the additional elective requirement.
A lot of work for midterms and finals
Do a lot of studying outside of class. Also read the textbook because it makes more sense after thinking about it yourself. And do not be afraid to ask a TF for help.
Do the practice problems regularly
