The material the course covers is definitely worth learning and thinking about.
As a freshman, this course had a significant influence on my considerations for choosing a concentration.
This class is a really good introduction to sociology, and it's a really good class to take if you're considering concentrating in sociology.
If you've taken high school sociology, you've taken Sociology 10
Although his lectures are kind of boring, he's a likeable teacher and the material is great.
Fun and easy class. Relaxing and interesting.
many different topics that society is confronted with, good introduction to sociology, interesting discussions in section.
It is harder than it needed to be.  The material is pretty straightforward; however, the midterm was tricky.
Teachers are fair and understanding.  Class is not too difficult if you do the reading and work.
This is a great class to take. The material that you read is mind blowing and really interesting. I found things out that I never knew and would have never expected.
This was a great interactive class. You get to have interesting discussions with your classmates and really relate to the topics discussed.
It is a great class that introduces you to the world of sociology.
Do the reading.
Sociology 10 is low-key but very interesting if you are willing to focus on the material.  Some topics covered can be especially dry, but everyone can find something in the course that interests them.  SimSoc is quite an experience, resulting in both bonding and animosity for the rest of the semester.
Not a fully engaging elective, but definitely something to look at for those considering entering the field
The course is painless and I found the material interesting.  However, I would only recommend the course to people interested in sociology.
Come into the class with an open mind, and expect to find sociological topics that will interest you and change the way you think about the world and the context in which you view individuals and everyday situations.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard so far.
This is the epitome of a well-taught course. Eva Rosen is brilliant.  She makes convoluted theory super comprehensible and applicable to current events, and her lecture slides are consistently tasteful.  Just from her tone and informal questions to the class, you can tell she cares deeply about her students.  I wish I had taken greater advantage of office hours. The material itself is pretty accessible.  The readings, though, will make you grapple with seemingly-basic things.  There are a dozen names for different types of interactions among people, for instance, and notions like networking and status suddenly become very complex.  Although there's a lot of theory, it's not arduous: the readings are time-consuming, but relevant.  I took this class as an elective, but now I'm considering a secondary in sociology.
I absolutely loved this class! Unfortunately, Professor Rosen mentioned that she won't be teaching it next year, but as someone who took it out of interest with no intention of getting a Sociology concentration or secondary (I'm a STEM concentrator, for reference), I thought it was fascinating material, pretty easy, and really engaging. The readings are completely do-able and reasonable and usually pretty interesting--so it was rarely ever something I minded. I also typically don't like writing essays, but I kind of enjoyed writing these ones since they were open-ended enough that I could find a topic I was interested in.That being said, I do think I naturally find sociology really interesting, which helped.
Good for a heavy course load or a sociology primer but now as indepth as one may like.
there's alot of reading
This course is a good introduction to sociology, covering a large range of relevant topics. Its use of a published ethnographic study to illustrate its topics was surprisingly effective.
This class provides a very broad overview of many areas in sociology. If you're thinking about concentrating in sociology or just want a taste of the field, however, I wouldn't recommend this class. It'll put a bad taste in your mouth for sociology. The lectures are pretty boring and section's not useful. The reading list isn't great, either. That being said, it is low-workload and pretty easy grade-wise, so if you need an easy, low-work, boring filler class, this is the class for you.
The class really opens your eyes to inequalities present in society today
If you are at all possibly interested in the field of sociology, definitely take this course. The readings, lectures and sections all contribute to fostering a great enthusiasm about sociology. The readings are especially engaging at times, and the course was one of the highlights of last semester.
Enjoy!
Sociology 10 seems easy but it is a little harder with the paper assignments. They aren't really what you would expect and the grading is harder than imagined. I would have rather taken another sociology course, which could have been more interesting. Plantations to prisons was an awesome class.
The concepts that I learned in the class were very interesting, but I didn't really feel like it was anything beyond what I could have learned by picking up a textbook and reading it. I also felt like some of the paper assignments were not super well-defined and that the grade was somewhat determined by whether or not the style and content fit the grader's own personal opinions
Soc 10 is a great, broad overview of sociology if you've never been exposed to the field. You get a taste of all topics from economics to the family. However, if you would like to zone in on one topic or already have the basics of sociology, I would say take another, more focused course. The testing for this class is pretty straight-forward and the teachers are very open to meeting outside of class. Note that there will be time restrictions on email however (for example, you cannot ask questions 24 hr before an exam).
Wonderful course! Rosen is brilliant and excellent at teaching, too, although she is not teaching the course next year unfortunately. Thorough introduction to the many different subfields of sociology. Recommended for concentrators and non-concentrators alike. As a sociology concentrator, I took it because I thought it would be easy and relevant, which it was, but I also learned a ton, so while it can be tempting to blow it off, try to take it seriously because you'll really learn a lot either as a newbie or seasoned sociologist.
Great class! A lot of interesting material covered, not a lot of work, and work is graded very very fairly. Overall would highly recommend.
GREAT survey of Sociology as a discipline. Literally covers quite a huge range of topics that could be of interest to you as you move along the discipline. Lecture attendance was a requirement and I felt that it was slightly unfair because lecture was not as engaging as it could potentially be. Prof. and TF were very accessible though if you needed further help or to discuss materials further. Totally recommend for anyone thinking about sociology or interested in the social world.
This class is a great way to survey sociology and get a broad overview of the field. You come away with a good knowledge base of a variety of key concepts.
so fun!!! take it!!!
This is one of the most underrated classes I've taken at Harvard.  The material was fascinating, lecture was usually engaging, and assessments (while they weren't a joke) were fair and pretty predictable.  One caveat, especially if you're considering this for senior spring: attendance is taken at EVERYTHING (lecture and section).  But going to class rarely feels like a chore, so attendance wasn't an issue for me.
