Do not take this class if you are the kind of person who is tired of talking about race and class issues, and especially don't take this class if you think we live in a postracial America. You will not enjoy the class and will probably further confirm your erroneous views by turning everything you read around. :)
There is a lot of focus on methodology in this course. The lecture style may not be suitable for everyone.
This course was excellent and about such an important subject matter. I learned so much about education and the disparities in the educational system which is important to understand coming from all types of education and ending at Harvard. The sections were amazing and the TF made the course so amazing. Everyone should take this course.
This class is a really great class, with a lot of good readings that you will need for this course, and for others if you're very passionate about education. A must-take course.
it's easy and really interesting but lectures are incredibly boring and unfortunately required
Readings were interesting, but lectures and discussions didn't feel very rigorous which took away a lot from the experience.
ABSOLUTELY take this class! It was such a treat and something to look forward to every week. There is a bit of reading/writing, but it is all graded really fairly and is not meant to trip you up. One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
Great topic if you are interested in education, but horribly taught. The professor does not bring as much enthusiasm into the course as I would have liked, and the due dates for assignments were always poorly timed (paper due the Monday after Thanksgiving and then the final paper due a few days after)
This course has some really interesting and thought-provoking content and pushes you to apply the information to your life and possible solutions for education crises. This takes a more theory-based approach to solving problems in education rather than concrete policies. Lecture can be pretty boring but assignments and grading are generally very easy.
This class has a very low workload and is pretty easy. However, if you're someone with a really strong interest in the education system and pretty knowledgable about the in
This class has very interesting material (especially if you have never taken a sociology course). It has a low workload and no exams. That being said, a decent amount of effort is required, as lecture attendance is mandatory (this is rare). If you go to lecture and you do the low amount of work, you will reap the rewards in your grade.
You might have to push yourself to think about yourself in your communities and it might make you uncomfortable! Be willing to go there, and then some (especially if you come from a White, middle or upper class background).
This is a class you will truly enjoy spending time in and attending, and in which you will meet students and teachers with whom you can have endless conversation.
This class was a really interesting introduction to how culture influences ideas of and experiences within schooling. Tiffanie relies on smaller group discussions to break up the 2 hour lecture, which can get old after a certain point, but the class itself was never a bore. Section led by Kristina was the best experience I've ever had in section, she was truly the most passionate and dedicated TF I've had the pleasure of knowing. Light workload and few assignments beyond doing the readings weekly. Recommend enthusiastically!
This is a great course--Tiffanie is a really great class facilitator and you will get to think about some really important current topics while engaging with sociology theory.
Such a fantastic class! The readings are definitely a lot, but it's worth it and the material is super interesting. I hadn't taken any classes on Sociology or Education before, so if you have it may not be as cool because there'd be some repeat readings/concepts, but as someone new to education and sociology I found it to be an awesome course.
The information provided in this class is insightful and useful but the two hour time frame can be a lot to deal with.
Not the best class. It seemed really interesting but lectures were dry and boring. Section was great, but that was because our TF Kristina was awesome.
The course will give you a background in important works in the field of education, but the class discussion is abstract and more questions are raised than answered.
It seems like grading was pretty harsh this semester compared to past semesters. Kristina is a great TF, but the set-up this semester of section and lecture being on two totally different wavelengths and two types of material wasnt my favorite  I think I would have gotten a lot more out of the course if we just went over and reviewed the lecture material in section like other classes do. I think the class tried to do a bit too much, but Kristina and Tiffanie are both super friendly and create an amazing class environment!
Take this course!! Professor Ting is one of the most caring professors at Harvard and is incredibly knowledgeable about the topic. Classes are fun and engaging. The course seemed accessible to non-sociology concentrators, but you will be engaging with a lot of important texts in Sociology. I took both this course and USW-35 and thought this one was much better. If you're only planning to take one education-related course during your time at Harvard, please make it this one!
Fairly easy class, good balance of theory and case study.
Take this class. This is the best course I have taken at Harvard.  The professor is phenomenal.
DO THIS CLASS FOR TIFFANIE AND KRISTINA! Seriously. They are both so interesting and so helpful. They create so much enthusiasm for the course material. The subjects are really interesting and engaging. If you have any interest at all in education you must take this course.
Fantastic course! Definitely expanded my understanding of the U.S. education system and all of the complexities that go into it! Would definitely recommend if you're at all interested in education or educational policy!
If you are already interested in the subject matter it might be a good class for you. Also if you are really into Sociology and social thought as applied to schools you also might enjoy it a lot. Not sure it translate super compellingly to a wider audience that is less familiar with sociology.
Tiffanie and Kristina are great. They're both really nice. But the lectures are really long and pretty dry. I really struggled to pay attention for the whole thing. Definitely do the readings, because it will REALLY help with the midterm and final exam essays. Otherwise, you will seriously struggle when those come around.
Great course, moderate amount of reading/work that really adds to lecture and discussions
If you are a minority or a student from an under-resourced background, your struggles will be put into academic writing. You will understand why feels against you.
I wouldn't take SOC135 unless the course is revamped from its present iteration. Tiffanie Ting is really smart and a great lecturer, but she hardly ever taught. Most of the learning was left for the students to perform themselves in small groups. The midterm and final papers are good exercises, but some of the grading criteria seem a bit childish. I got docked on my midterm paper because I didn't explicitly state which readings I would be using in my introduction. Finally, Tiffanie is all about trigger warnings and safe spaces. Courses that deal with race, inequality, economics, etc. deal with complex content. Difficult conversations shouldn't be danced around on this campus.
