Sociology 114 is a good course for those new to the field. Great assignments and great senior spring course
Very intriguing class with regards to topic, but seemed that due to the size of the class it interfered with how the professor approached the class.
Its a great course to take pass fail
The class is pretty easy, but there are a bunch of papers, so just be prepared to write a good bit.
It did not feel as if people were really engaged with the course. It seemed like people were just going through the motions of section and not showing up to lecture. Take another class if you can.
Super interesting material. Low work load.
A course with interesting subject material that can be boring at times
Interesting material but because it was the first time the class was taught, they were still working out the kinks. It wasn't great this year but you may have better luck.
Professor cares a lot. Ask questions! TFs make or break the experience. A lot of useful knowledge and interesting assignments.
While the course material is interesting, the lectures were dry and not very stimulating. The lectures and sections cover a lot of details that seem insignificant and are difficult to remember, but the papers help tie them together.
Its possible to get B+ or higher without even doing the readings. Wikipedia and the sources linked in the wikipedia articles are definitely sufficient to write all of the response papers. I spent less than an hour per week on homework. The topic for your final paper can be freely choosen by you.
This class is great if you are interested in looking at how organizations work and what they do wrong. It is not too rigorous, but you do have regular papers 4-6 pages each. Since this was the first year it was taught, I think it will be even better in the future.
Great class, you'll become educated in several real-world areas that everyone should know about like the financial crisis, challenger disaster, etc
That is is incredibly interesting and is a must.
One of the most interesting classes I've ever taken
The topics and readings were very, very interesting. The lectures were sometimes lacking, but I think they will get better since it was a new course when I took it.
Very interesting topic and cases but this course was really hurt by the fact that it is new. The Professor almost always read off the slides and the course has a ton of unnecessary reading. Slightly unorganized. Would really caution people against taking this course. Was just not what I expected. Failed to live up to expectations.
interesting material but professor's lectures are pretty dry
This was a great class.  Most of the material is pretty intuitive stuff that the material explains more descriptively.  Also, because its intuitive it makes sections and discussion much easier.
If you do the readings it should be fairly easy and upfront.
This was a fun class, and there was some wonderfully interesting material. Not everyone who took it was so enthusiastic, but I really enjoyed it.
Great class--provides an intellectual framework for understandings organizations and leadership. Large writing component which I thought was good.
Kinda boring but super easy
This class was a great pass/fail course. Lecture attendance was almost useless because Prof. Wakeham read directly off the slides and rarely gave an insights that weren't written on the slides. The material was interesting but lectures were a drag because you could read the slides in 10 seconds yet you had to sit and hear him do it.
This course should be taught as a case study course. For reference, Diana Eck's US and the World course on religious pluralism perfects the case study method that would make this course 1000x better. Instead of listening to boring lectures about NASA engineering struggles, I would have preferred reading cases before class, coming to class prepared to debate/discuss the cases, and researching/writing up my own case as a final project. The way this class was taught was dull, repetitive, and totally unengaging.
Good class. Not easy, but not too much to handle.
This class is great at diving into the causes and consequences of organizational failures in a sociological context.
Buy the books and read them over summer or spring break or winter break rather than actually taking the class. Lecture and section do not add anything to what can be gained from reading the books carefully, because the books are SO interesting and compelling. Lecture is not. Professor Wakeham essentially reads from the slides, and he seems to always assume that we are bored, uninterested, stupid...etc. Sure, many people are taking it pass/fail, and some don't come to lecture, but those that do are demonstrating their interest. As I said, read the books on your own time and you'll learn a lot (they are SO INTERESTING). Take the class and you might wish you picked another class, because we only have so many slots.
Keep up with the material and look at the essay prompts early. Choose an approach to questions that will interest you and do some further research
Professor Wakeham literally just reads the powerpoint slides during lecture and doesn't really have anything else to add. The workload was not that bad but the essays were graded pretty hard.
It's interesting but at the end of the day you just learn not to lie, cheat, or steal.
This class was a disaster and you could analyze it for how terrible it was just like any of the other cases we did.
Low time commitment, but really relevant and useful to think about real-world problems.
Hands down the best and most interesting class I've taken at Harvard. The material is incredibly applicable to real life situations and taught me a new way of thinking about life in organizations and how it shapes society and the individual. The workload is manageable and the assignments encouraged me to think critically about what we learned in class. Lectures are well-structured and engaging. I really enjoyed this course.
Interesting material.
This class was awesome! The cases that we looked at in class are all very well known and getting the opportunity to dig deeper into what lead to these major catastrophes was fascinating. Prof Wakeham was great, and entertaining lecturer. take this class!
The cases in this class are very interesting and thought-provoking. You get what you put into the class, if you don't choose to do the reading and learn about the cases, then you will find the course boring.
This was a new course so we weren't sure what we were getting into
Literally a joke. I took the class P/F, did not buy a single book, and got an A on every single assignment. Wakeham is kind of a painful lecturer -- he just reads off of slides -- but you actually do get to learn some basic info about a lot of interesting topics, like pedophile priests and the mortgage crisis.
This is a really interesting course. The case structure of the course was informative both on a current events perspective as well as a crisis management perspective, and I found that this made for an excellent pre-MBA style class. I also found that Prof. Wakeham did an excellent job applying some really theoretical sociological ideas to the real world cases. It wasn't a particularly challenging course, and the workload is very reasonable.
The professor is leaving this year, so I am not the class will be offered again. However, take this class if it is offered again. This class provides a real-life lesson.
Take this course. Wakeham is super interesting and generates extreme interest in the subject matter.
The course is an interesting and engaging way to learn about organizations, culture, and ethics and resembles a case study course in some respects. The teaching staff is super dedicated, though I know Prof. Wakeham et al. are heading elsewhere. I recommend it for anyone with even a remote interest in organizations or just for general interest since organizations are pretty much the building blocks of business.
Great course!
Great analysis into something very important in todays society.
Great lecture, horrible section. Took this class as an elective and it ended up being my worst grade of the semester.
Great, insightful lectures and discussions based on tremendously important events
This course is what you make of it.  The assignments are very open-ended and give you the chance to explore an area that is particularly interesting to you.  You will also leave feeling much more equipped to recognize organizational issues and psychological biases and (hopefully) to prevent them.
If you actually put effort into the class, it is wonderful and not difficult. The only people who complained were those that never showed up for lecture, never did the reading and then were surprised at their grade on the midterm (which was long, but fair. Everything on midterm was covered explicitly in class and section).  Prof. Wakeham is wonderful, as is TF Curtis. Fantastic, engaging course that covers incredibly interesting material. Take it
This is a very easy and excellent case study course for those interested in leadership and organizational theory. I really enjoyed how Curtis formulated his sections because it basically set us up for writing papers and doing case analysis.
