You'll gain a good understanding of the trends of the American family over the course of history.
Interesting material but the lectures were painful. So boring.
This class is easy, but can be very dry at times. It is also very helpful to go to lecture as most of the test and paper material is from lecture!
I loved this course.  I feel that the course gave a lot of insight into the topics that politicians spend a lot of time debating today (divorce, birth outside of marriage, abortion, gay rights, etc.).  The lectures were interesting, and I really enjoyed the discussions during section.  My TF, Anshul Kumar, was wonderful at keeping the discussions lively.
This is a history class about the family, not a sociology class. You learn more about the history of the family instead of the current issues effecting the family today.
The professor didn't care. He was 30 years out of date with everything. No student participation.
Excellent class, great to learn about the American family
This was a interesting topic, but kind of boring at sometimes, and a lot of reading that was hard to make yourself do.
Good class. Not much work. Some reading. Paper can be as bad as you make it.
So when I looked at the Q guide before taking this class I saw a lot of grumbling, and I've got to say I don't know what all this grumbling is about. This was probably the best class I took this semester. It came up in many of my conversations with people outside of class, and everyone had some question or misconception for me about the American family, and then we had a great discussion about it. Definitely do all of the readings. Yes, it's more time consuming than not doing the readings, but you get WAY more out of the class if you even just read the abstracts of the paper. People in the past complained about lecture not being interesting, and sure, it wasn't comedy central, but I saw the connections to the readings. This class is also super laid back, which is nice. And it's "easy" in the sense that if you put in the work, you will get a good grade, very straightforward.  Overall, I would recommend, great way to take care of the US and the World gen ed.
Grading was super arbitrary on assignments and lectures were not formatted in the best way at all. Section was the greatest part about the course!
too many readings about dull subjects
This was a terrible experience. The professor and TFs did not seem invested in the class at all. Lecture was often confusing and felt unstructured without powerpoint slides. Section was useless. I would not recommend it at all.
This course has a large amount of reading, and analytical thought and writing skills are necessary.
Just go to lecture. If you go to lecture and take notes, it is impossible not to do well, even if you didn't do any course readings.
Can be a great class, but you should genuinely interested in the American family and relevant family matters.
This class is interesting and awesome
This is a relatively painless class; the assignments and section are fun, but lecture can get kind of boring.
Overall, I'd recommend it - it's interesting and relevant. However, keep in mind that lectures may be dry at times (pretty much because of the topics, although many are interesting).
Not a great class.
The material is very interesting, but lecture is extremely difficult to get through - the professor is very dry.
Great material
This class was unfortunately a poor use of a class slot. If your aim is to have a class that requires no effort and even less thinking, this is the class for you. Professor Whyte was reluctant to explore ideas that deviated from his major insights. He lectured without slides or notes for the majority of the semester--which led to tangential lectures that occasionally rambled and lost focus. Many times, the professor would manage to covers all of the major points in the hour due to getting sidetracked. The sections were the most awkward that I've experienced at Harvard, with abundant conversation lulls and dead discussions. There are certainly better uses of time at Harvard, and I would deter others from enrolling.
Don't take this class. Although the information may seem super interesting, it is not worth it. Midterms and exams are graded very harshly without any real direction on how to succeed. Lectures are incredibly boring and hard to keep up with. The paper too is graded arbitrarily, without any direction on how to complete it. I was excited to take a Sociology class, but now that I have taken this one, I'm really unlikely to take other Sociology classes if this one is any indication.
If you are an American citizen, you will probably find this class very interesting and thought provoking.
The material is interesting in theory, but the manner in which it is presented is boring and not interactive.
will change the way you think about the family and what is normal.
Professor was too particular about what he was looking for on exams. Lecture's were very dry and most of the material was fairly obvious.
It's a fun and engaging class!
This is a good class to take if you want an extra class with hardly any work involved. The lectures are boring but the sections can be fun.
The course is a little bit slow, but the information is pretty interesting. The section component is really bad.
It's mildly interesting
professor whyte is excellent. his lectures are clear, really interesting, and extremely well structured (the entire course is too). the material is likewise interesting and very relevant.
Interesting material, fun environment, easy to do well.
This class is good if you like old-school-style lecturing with little student participation. Good for people who like to memorize random details about family and history. Not good for people who like to actively participate in class or develop own theory.
I would take this class if you are looking for a fourth class with minimal daily work. This class, however, is extremely boring and has very little structure. This class is also not an 'easy A' as the grading of midterms is highly subjective. I did enjoy writing the Family Interview paper and found that to be a very useful and relevant assignment.
This class is a good way to fulfill a gened requirement.  Not a lot of work at all.
This is an extremely relevant course to any student in America today.  We discussed topics spanning from gay marriage to elderly health benefits.
This class is fairly easy and the subject matter is very interesting, shedding light upon aspects of families and family life that most people take as a given but in fact are very sociologically interesting and in constant development. That said, if you are not interested in the subject matter, you will most likely find the class very dry and perhaps even a waste of time, as a lot of the material does seem to be somewhat "common sense" knowledge that the course simply brings a new perspective/academic outlook to.
As a sociology student, I am sad to see that this may be an intro to soc for some sophomores.  Lectures are not very well organized, there are no power points and the midterm is a lot more difficult than TFs make it seem.  Not much guidance on anything, even the 15 page paper we had to write.  Section is useless even though the TFs are well meaning and nice.  Good thing is that material is interesting although it's not worth going through everything else that comes with taking this course.
do the readings and pay attention to the small things in lecture
This class is fun and interesting, especially the 2nd half.  The family interview paper is an annoying assignment but the exams are easy. Form a study group for the readings and you're golden.
This class shows you the common misconceptions about the American family. The information that you learn is really interesting and applicable to your life. Great way to fulfill a US and the World Requirement!
This course is a little unorganized and not as easy/straightforward as you might think.  It is difficult to focus in lecture and the midterm/final draw on things that might only have been mentioned once very briefly.  Also, the interview assignment is extremely unclear -- difficult to know what they want.  That said, it is an interesting course and is a good intro to sociology.
This class needs a facelift before it's good again. Prof. Whyte synthesizes core information well, but repeats points often throughout the semester. The teaching staff was in shambles and miscommunication with professors was obvious. Students found themselves scratching their heads multiple times throughout the semester on the midterm and research paper. It was a very low-key class overall, but don't shirk the readings entirely! They are helpful on exams!
This class is relatively painless and can be fun. It is especially interesting to those who care about how American families have changed over time.
Not hard to get a good grade. But serious bore in lectures. Sorry.
Make sure you go to lecture
This was a good course. The material was very interesting and relevant to what's going on right now in American family life. Lectures were good - a little dry at times, but still interesting. Covered a broad range of topics in American family life (historical, marriage, divorce rates, etc.).
Great class, especially for the Gen-Ed US in the World. Light course load, great TFs (Casey) and material that is well-known if you lived in the US. Best class for the Gen-ed program
This class was fairly little work. The majority of the work I did for the class was studying for the midterm and final and writing the family history paper. I found some of the material very interesting, and it's nice to learn about what family life is like in America since it is applicable to everyone and it's also useful to learn to better understand social issues etc. However, sometimes lectures could be a bit repetitive/boring and sections were often quite unorganized.
Interesting course, great way to fulfill a gen ed. Lecture isn't too gripping and there aren't always clearly drawing out expectations for assignment.
This course was very interesting and gives a good overview of many of the unique characteristics of "The American Family", since there are certain trends in family life that are different from conventional wisdom or what we would normally think. I think that by the end of the course, I got a good grasp of the implications of these trends as well, and came away learning a lot. I think Professor Whyte does a good job of pulling all the trends together at the end, and pulling key research done over the years from sociologists to understand the complex family trends in America.
very boring lectures, but interesting readings and section discussions
This class is dry, but very straightforward. Lots of reading.
The topic of this class is interesting and because it is a sociology class, you get to view the material from different perspectives!
This class is interesting.  Some material and concepts come up in several lectures, so that Whyte can connect them and drive points home.  You will learn the truth about historical trends.  Sections are based on discussion questions.  There were no response papers, which has its ups and downs.  Material relates to concepts taught in other classes.
Easy material,extremely hard grading. Not worth putting in a ton of effort to get bad grades on tests because your answer wasnt perfect
the actual material covered is very interesting but Prof. Whyte is not the best lecturer.  I liked the family interview paper and thought it was an interesting assignment
There is a lot of reading!
The readings for this course were really dry, so I would not recommend this class to someone who isn't genuinely interested in the topic material, at least a little bit. Professor Whyte gives good lectures, and the TF's are good at facilitating discussion. Is an easy class, meaning doesn't require much work outside of class.
The topics covered in this class are really interesting and are so pertinent to anyone living in America.  You gain a lot of insight and the workload is very light.  Definitely worth taking.
Don't take this class unless required to.  While the topic is fascinating, the readings are out of date, the professor does not effectively convey expectations or information, and you will be graded on a curve (even though you aren't told this).
Really interesting class with not a lot of work. It covered a lot of topics about the family that are very prevalent in society, and applicable to your life right now and in the future, regardless of what your family structure is
This course is extremely deceptive.  It seems pretty straightforward from its title, but it is not.  The tests and paper are not hard, but they are graded with very high standards.
A really interesting topic. Lectures are well thought out in advance and are very coherent.  Section discussions can get really interesting in the second half of the course when you get to more contentious topics (like gay marriage, adoption, etc.). The readings were interesting and painless.  And there is only one major paper. Overall, a painless and interesting way to fulfill US in the World!
The lectures can be very boring and the midterms/finals depend a lot on specific key terms from the lecture. YOU HAVE TO ATTEND LECTURE AND TAKE GOOD NOTES.
The material is interesting.  This is the only pro.  It is poorly organized and taught.  There seems to be little communication between the professor and the TF's, and expectations about the paper and both exams were extremely nebulous.  They seem to assume prior knowledge of sociological methods, even though it is a Gen Ed, an intro sociology class, and focuses on content, not methodology.  They refuse to give us a study guide of any kind for the midterm and the final.  Grading is very harsh for an intro class/gen ed, and lectures are extremely boring.
Good gen-ed. interesting statistics on the american family. be sure to look up any words/ terms you dont know.
I liked debating the issues, but often other students are apathetic so it could be difficult to be engaged. I also did not ever do the reading and still found the course easy to navigate (I always attended lecture).
the material is surprisingly practical. you will find it creeping up into many informal conversations with friends and family, which is interesting. the lectures are rather dull though.
The readings are boring.
There are a lot of readings but if you do them, you will be prepared for the midterm and final. Attending lecture is also very beneficial in terms of your understanding of the material and the lectures and readings complement each other well. The research paper is time consuming, and extensive, but allows you to use what you have learned up to that point in the class and write in a similar style as what you have been reading throughout the semester.
Broad material.  Lectures are okay, not great.  Hard to get enthusiastic about the course due to its nature
DO NOT BE FOOLED BY THIS CLASS.  It seems like a really interesting, relatively painless way to fulfill a gened.  IT IS A TRAP.  The grading is arbitrary and the paper assignment is a COMPLETE disaster.  DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS NO MATTER HOW INTERESTING YOU FIND THE MATERIAL.
Lectures are a bit dull, but the content and reading material is very interesting and relevant to most student's lives. The trends learned made the lectures bearable. The primary sources were really great, too.
Take this course if you: need an easy course to balance a heavy workload, or if you have a strong interest in the material. The readings themselves are very interesting, but lectures can be really dry. Prep for the midterm is pretty lacking: there's no review session, or list of relevant terms. Even with the final, there was not too much guidance on what we should focus on among all the readings (textbook, reader, and sociological studies) and doing well seemed somewhat like a matter of luck. As for the oral history project, give yourself at least two or three weeks to really start work on it. The interviews take a lot longer than you would expect.
lots of reading
Poorly organized and the grading was rather disjoint and not uniform across the TFs.
This class is easy and very interesting! The topics covered in class are applicable to everyday life, as long as you go to lecture and skim through the most important readings you will be fine for the midterm! Section is not an essential component to this course since readings are not discussed.
I am very glad I took this course because the topics were very interesting to think and write about. It is very accessible to anyone who grew up in the US and requires no prior knowledge or passion. However it is hard to get a good grade. Section is a waste of time and lectures are monotonous even though I found the material itself very interesting.
Great way to look at the historical perspective of the family life in America, and provides background in order for one to compare their family to as well
The content and ideas presented in the class are very interesting and in many cases relevant to our lives. That said, the lectures can be a little slow and the sections not very well run, so I don't recommend taking this class if you really want to engage with the material and be with motivated peers. I got the sense that people were taking this class because it required very little work, and that showed through in the vibe of the course over the course of the semester.
super interesting class, not a lot of work. the material is great and gets you thinking.
class does not require much work and is very back-ended. You can cram for the midterm and final and do fine.
This class is great if you have an interest in the American family and want to study it through readings and from a sociological perspective. Section component was definitely related to lectures and overall it was a good intro to sociology.
I wish I didn't take this class, I liked the material but it was poorly structured, and there was no materials besides your own lecture notes from which to study for and I'm confident I could've taught it better myself.
It is not that interesting.
There is more to the family than you think. It might seem like a boring topic, but this class was actually very interesting.
This class is easy but a complete waste of time. The amount of time spent in class and section eclipses the marginal amount that you feel like you learned at the end of the semester.
Very informative. If you have an gen ed requirement, I would recommend this course.
If you like learning about the material, it's quite interesting and applicable to everyday life--learning about why divorce has risen and how maternal employment has a role.
This is a really interesting class and does not require much time outside of class!
This course was a little boring but easy.
This class has a very manageable workload. The readings for the class are not too long, and are very interesting.
easy, interesting introduction to american family life! very chill and laid back
Interesting class that doesn't require too much work.
The readings and other course materials are somewhat dry, but the family interview project is really fun and interesting.
Very interesting material.  If you care to, do the readings and you'll enjoy them!
It's really cool to learn about all the different trends and myths that have shaped the American family over the years.  I enjoyed learning about them!
As a Sociology concentrator, I can say this isn't the most interesting or well-organized class in the dept., but it does meet a requirement so be proactive about getting the most out of it.
