This is a good class if you're interested in engaging substantively with the material; however, there are a lot of terms and jargon so it's easy to get lost. Bart is an excellent professor.
I loved this course. Bart is incredible and such a great teacher. He is one of my favorite professors I have ever had at Harvard.
The instructors and course were great, but unfortunately I was not very interested in the material. I would advise prospective students to make sure they are interested in what will be taught because the TF and professor definitely deserve attentive students!
Only for people motivated to learn about culture and networks. This is not the type of class that will still be a breeze if you aren't interested or if you don't do the work.
This is a truly fantastic course, and doesn't require too much work - it is intellectually challenging without stressing you out. When the readings are difficult or dense (which some of them can be), Professor Bonikowski will explain them in lecture. This is a very unique course, and I don't think there's anything else offered that's even remotely similar. Professor Bonikowski is extremely approachable, and flexible in terms of adjusting the content of the course to our needs. The in-class final is also extremely helpful in reducing tension during reading period.
not a course for everyone. although the material is super interesting for those who are already interested in cultural phenomena from a sociological point of view this is not for those who are vaguely interested or want hardcore network analysis. this class is super chill. the teaching staff is so accessible and friendly and funny. Bart is too nice and Anny is too funny. shop it, see what you think. get a feel for it. it's really worth a shot.
This is a good course that can be applied across a wide range of social phenomena. The readings are dense and you should learn to skim and pay attention in lecture/section to get the main points from each. Well organized, but the exam preparation is basically all up to you. Not the best course I have taken at Harvard, but far from the worst. Excellently prepped lectures and Bart is very responsive to student needs.
It's a light workload and the subject has a lot of potential, but only take it if you want to do the readings.
Great overview to culture and networks. No quantitative analysis, though.
This class is the only one of its kind anywhere. It's very interesting, and it will open up your perspective to a new way to look at certain social phenomena. I haven't taken other sociology classes, but from what I can glean, it isn't your typical sociology class. Professor Bonikowski is very knowledgable and a great lecturer. Anny is also an amazing TF! Our section had a great rapport, and she was very good at explaining all the nuances of the topics we were learning about. Beware of the readings though. There is SO much reading every week...you will not read half to most of it most likely. Also, the readings are at times very tedious and hard to understand.
Professor Bonikowski is the best!
Take this class! This course will be one of the best you will take in the sociology department. The intersection of culture and networks is fascinating and you will leave the course very fulfilled. The readings are interesting (though sometimes long), the exams are fair, and Professor Bonikowski is the best!
Prof Bart and Anny make a really good team. Both were invested in our learning and creating enthusiasm for the subject matter. The course was cohesive throughout and had some interesting points some weeks (not so interesting other weeks). Similar to stuff learned in Soc190 so may be some overlap if you've taken that.
This course is a must for anyone remotely interested in the subject matter. The teaching is exceptional and Anny is an amazing TF. This class was, without a doubt, one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
This course will give you a unique quantitative way to study a very qualitative discipline.
Hated the exam based format of the class and thought there was not enough room for course material application--more memorization and spitting out of definitions
This was the first sociology class I'd even taken. I found the topic to be very interesting, and the professor was awesome. The readings are great and are really important in understanding the content for the course. The only downside to this class are that they are meticulous graders.
Dr. Bonikowski is an excellent professor, and the course material is exciting in that it offers new and different ways to think about a variety of cultural phenomena.
This is such an interesting class! I liked all of the readings. Be warned, it's not really what you think about "social networks" like the way you're used to. I think the first lecture gives a really good overview of what the course is going to be if you're second-guessing. Bart is such a great lecturer and fascinating person that I think it's completely worth taking the class.
This class was accessible, and covered many interesting topics that are relevant to everyday life. While the title may lead one to believe the course emphasizes digital networks, this is not the case. Painless Sociology elective.
Great professor--the course itself, however, is not terribly well-structured.
This course is very interesting and well-structured. The network concepts are thoroughly explained in class, and Bart is an engaging lecturer. The selection of course readings are genuinely interesting and applicable to everyday life. Allie (TF) provides great feedback on your final paper. The readings don't take too much time, but section is a waste of it - consists mainly of busy work and useless activities. Also, sometimes the TFs seem unsure of network concepts themselves - if you have concrete questions about the complexities of network analysis, go to Bart's office hours.
This class did not live up to my expectations. The readings (almost all of them are sociological papers, 3-4 each week) are many and hard and ultimately not explained and drilled into you to the point you understand. Section was mostly a waste of time - we always ran out of time and the TF was disorganized / not really invested. I would say that I'm taking away SOME semblance of recognition that culture and networks are important, but nothing much beyond that. Bonikowski is amazing, brilliant, and SO nice, but he could really unpack this class, by a lot, to make it both more meaningful, more useful, and more organized for students.
Take it! It's a great course!!!
If you love to study networks and not just like looking at the visuals (which are really fun to look at) then take this class with no reservations. Overall a reasonable class if you like the subject.
If you're interested in the course description it's probably going to be an interesting class for you. It's a good bit of reading, but manageable. The course it well taught and the teaching staff is kind. Basically what you want in a semi-interesting, relaxed niche class.
This course gave me so many lenses and analytical tools to think about "culture" and "networks"-- I feel that for anybody interested in the social sciences, this is a wonderful class to take if you want to learn more about these topics. This class is ESPECIALLY helpful to those who are going to write theses/do research.
Make sure you are interested in cultural sociology and network analysis. The midterms are kind of hard and involves a lot of memorization, so make sure that you go to lectures.
Midterm, final, and final paper were all great assignments. However, if you get a bad TF your experience in the class will be hindered. I didn't get anything out of my section. Feedback was limited at best.
Not exactly what you would expect from the title, but an amazing class with a great professor.
Prof. Bonikowski is AWESOME -- his lectures are engaging and interesting, he really cares about the students, and you will come away from this class with an entirely new understanding of the cultural and social forces in society in general.
This is a great course that engages many topics that are helpful in understanding the world.  Studying the world through networks is unique and not found in many classes.  The workload is light and the network exercises are very fun.  The teaching staff is also very enthusiastic and engaging.
Definitely one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Both cultural sociology and network theory were eye-opening fields of study for me that changed the way I look at the word. Professor Bonikowski does such a good job of merging and balancing the two disciplines. There's a sensitivity to the relationality of everything that now underlies all of my perceptions. For example - the idea that artistic taste is nothing more than a subjective opinion that a network of people has agreed upon, that people then strive toward because of their associations with that network (BOOM. So many "boom" moments in this course for me.).  Professor Bonikowski is an incredibly thoughtful, fair, and engaging teacher - so grateful for and inspired by him. He is also very open to feedback, and actually implements changes based on mid-course evaluations.
I really enjoyed this course and can't recommend it highly enough. The topic of the course is super interesting and increasingly relevant. Professor Bonikowski is a really engaging lecturer, and the readings/lectures covered a broad but coherent set of topics. The workload for the course is fairly light (readings and network exercises were very reasonable), but I imagine that you get out what you put in.
You may feel a little frustrated with the course as I did. Firstly, this class should be expanded into a 1.5 hour, twice a week course, instead of a 1 hour, twice a week course. Professor Bonikowski has a lot to say, and wants students to give input, so we always seem to run out of time within the present timeframe. I felt frustrated that the end of class always felt unresolved, and that it seemed like we were talking about the same topics over and over again. However, I ended up liking the class' major themes.
This class was interesting but it is not as easy as you would think. The readings are long and repetitive and the sections were very dull and not helpful.
take this class for the network exercises and the readings, both of which were fascinating. the exam portion of the class was mostly just a small bump, didn't really gain much from them would have preferred more of a focus on the network exercises
You'll be able to appreciate how broad a meaning the word "culture" has.
Very thought provoking readings and an absolutely exceptional professor !
Great class! Professor Bonikowski is a really good lecturer and content is extremely interesting!
Prof. Bonikowski is an engaging lecturer, but what's even more important is that he obviously puts his students and their needs first. Take this course if you're at all interested in thinking about how life is influenced by relationships between people, businesses, countries, etc.
If you have any interest in cultural sociology or network analysis, take this course! Professor Bonikowski is fantastic, and you will come out of the course with a lot more familiarity with the concepts and literature.
This is a really good class, that is not difficult, and teaches you about how things are interconnected through networks. The topics covered in the class are very interesting which are what make the class so great.
