This course is great for a gentler introduction to global health than a big lecture course can provide. There is freedom to explore the topics in global health that you want to explore.
It's easy, and the class is only 2 hours per week, but it is really disorganized and frustrating. Often boring. I'd take it again, but I wouldn't expect to really enjoy it.
The content is very interesting. However, the course is somewhat disorganized. If you are fine with having a course that is not always coherent and has you read a wide variety of readings, this is an excellent course. The workload is also not bad.
Very interesting course material especially for those of you interested in humanistic medicine. The readings are fantastic, but the class sessions lack concrete lectures and are mostly student-led discussions. The assignments are all essays, but the pro is that you can really decide on what you want to write about.
Very interesting subject matter. You will get out of the course what you put into it.
This class isn't very difficult, but definitely do some of the readings to contribute to class discussions. You have a lot of leeway with the papers, so you can write about whatever interests you the most.
Put effort into papers and class discussions, and enjoy the class for what it is. Make sure you care about medicine or public health though.
Professor Good is knowledgeable, and her advice on the project  each of the students were developing (be they theses, research papers, work they were doing outside of their classes) was invaluable.  If the course is offered again as a seminar, I would caution the students that sometimes the lack of guidance in class discussions can be frustrating.  As well, it seemed that the required readings often fell to the wayside in order to discuss those that were optional, which makes little sense.  In spite of these weaknesses, the course is worth taking.
great interesting subject matter but itting through class can be dull sometimes
This class will make you excited to change the world! Very exciting to hear what everyone else is involved in in the individual presentation part, and very exciting to put it all in perspective with readings and discussion.
It's easy.
It is a great class, i have already recommended it to several people.
It's a low-stress class where you get to discuss and absorb something that you are really interested in.
The reading and assignments are interesting, varied, and manageable, but class time itself was often boring and unproductive.
It's an enjoyable class to take to widen your exposure to issues surrounding health care and social medicine.  Professor Good is an invaluable resource!
It's an exciting class, with some very relevant and interesting topics covered and a professor who is working right in the middle of the field she teaches.
Be prepared to be selective about the readings - there is much more posted than is feasible to read all of every week, but if you pick and choose there is a lot of interesting material.
I would tell them that the course load is fairly light and that the in-class presentations by outside and student speakers were fantastic.
This class is definitely easy and has the potential to be interesting because of its subject matter, but as a result of it's disorganization and poor discussion, it wasn't particularly rewarding.
There was little structure to the class. There didn't feel like there was an end goal or purpose to the class. There should be less readings (or less repetitive readings) and more productive discussions about the readings.
