Its pretty non-work intensive, but also not as interesting or intellectually stimulating as one might hope.
This is an easy class and it is also very interesting. If your looking for an elective or a concentration requirement that will not be that much work take this class!
I think that it is an overall manageable class and on a weekly basis there is not much work, but the assignments that count are surprisingly very complicated.
This course doesn't contain any of the in depth analysis you expect it to.
SIMSOC is very fun and entertaining, but overall this course is geared much more towards people who want to do as little work as possible. I entered the course with an open mind about concentrating in sociology, and am leaving fairly certain i won't take any more sociology courses.
This class is great - the readings are wonderful and I like Professor Nelson's lectures. SIMSOC is actually awesome, even if it is time consuming. This is one of those classes that is actually applicable to the rest of my life.
Please take this class, but also do the readings. Even though Nelson is likely to go over them pretty well in lecture, the readings are very interesting and help your understanding of the course material.
I absolutely adored this course; it has influenced me to concentrate in sociology. Nelson is a great educator and every lecture was fun and informative. You'll have an amazing time doing SIMSOC and the class project at the end of the year. Be prepared to do a bit of reading, but it's all enjoyable.
Nelson is awesome
I would tell them that they definitely need to read with a critical eye, or the class can be deceptively difficult.
SIMSOC is so much fun!
take it if you like sociology but otherwise it might not be that fun for you
Easy class, take it.
Pretty easy but don't get too behind on readings or lectures
Not a lot of necessary work outside of the classroom, sometimes material is tedious and boring.
It will be helpful to start the final exam early instead of writing it all at the last minute.
If you want an easy elective, this is a good class for you. It gives you the basics of sociology, which is basically giving theoretical names to the stuff you see in every day life.  If you want something that challenges you and that you will get something out of your academic experience, this might not be the class you are looking for.
This course is a great way to think about everyday life with the analytical lens of sociology.
pretty low-key, mildly interesting, some of the stuff is fun to learn about
I really enjoyed the lectures!
Do all the journals and look at all the readings cause it will only benefit you
This class does not contain normal cut-and-dry material, but rather abstract material that can only be understood through real world experiences.
This class discusses very interesting material on social interactions and is a great way to explore the field of sociolog.
A really interesting course and engaging material. Things you learn are definitely applicable in every day life but some of it just seems like common sense put in fancy terms. Syllabus has a ton of reading but Nelson is a great lecturer.
It is an easy, interesting class. Nothing difficult about it. But you do have to prepare for exams (which a lot of the class learned the hard way). And go to lecture. Don't skip it. It's interesting and it will help on your tests.
VERY EASY, but still a good intro to the material
This class is very applicable to every-day life and it makes you see social interactions in a new life.
Unless sociology is your thing, don't waste a class at Harvard on this.
It's really not necessary to purchase a new copy of the SIMSOC book, you don't use all the forms in the back so it's best to just buy a USED verson.
The SIMSOC exercise takes up a significant chunk of a weekend, but have fun and make the most of it.
very easy, don't need to do the readings, but helpful to come to lecture. interesting topic too
An easy course, but so boring.
This class is SO BORING. The lectures are unbearable and the course material should be interesting, but it ends up not being engaging at all. It's easy to do well in the class but don't take it if you're actually interested in a good sociology class.
Many people took this class as an "Easy A course." However those who did not have a genuine interest in the material struggled a little bit paying attention or even getting motivation to go to lecture. If you have an interest in sociology at all or think you may but don't know what soc is then TAKE THIS CLASS. It is an interesting introduction and a great class if you like the material. I found it excellent and loved Professor Nelson's lectures because anytime he noticed people getting bored in his class he would change up what he was doing and get the audience (class) engaged. I found it easy to pay attention in class because I liked how the sociologists' material related to my life and lives of people in general.
Midterm was harder than expected but not brutal. You get a lot of info/exam review in section. Attending lecture is not really necessary to do well in this course.
Just show up to class and do the readings and its an easy course.
This class was incredibly easy, but terribly boring. The concepts were intuitive and sections and lectures were dull as we spent too much time and very simple ideas. I enjoyed the "Deviation" exercise but largely would not recommend this class.
The lectures are very well taught and the material is very interesting!
Low work requirement, pretty interesting topic, Prof is good, my tf was good, midterm dictates a large part of grade
The content is interesting but presented in a way that is boring. I thought it would be a fun elective but that wasn't the case sadly.
The readings are great, and the class really helps you understand social phenomena in the world.
If you're curious about the types of phenomenon studied by sociologists, this is a low-stress survey course.  However, as an intro course, I would not recommend it to anyone well versed in social theory as the depth just isn't there.  That said, for its purpose of being an "introduction", I think this is a solid course.  While others may harp on the "easiness" of this course I think that this a course that is up to you to engage with.  You might be able to get by without doing much reading, but I genuinely think there is something to be gained (and the class will be much more interesting) if you take the time to read, attend lecture, and truly engage with the material.  Prof. Nelson is also a great guy who is surprisingly accessible given that he teaches at HKS.
Truly interesting class for people who want to do Sociology, however many people take it just because they want an "easy A". These people who wanted an A with no effort must've been disappointed to see that the class average for midterms was a 79.
It's a great class that teaches you a lot about the way people behave and interact with each other
realize that if you do not plan to study sociology this is a waste of time, but a fun one nonetheless
Tim Nelson is a great professor. I felt like lectures were conversations rather than lectures
It's an awesome class in which you learn material that can be applied to daily social interactions
Fun class, interesting material!
This class was not only very informative, but also very interesting. Nelson had a way of taking social subjects that many of us take for granted on a daily basis and put them under a microscope during class so that we can also see just how the social dynamic of our lives work. Not too much work and what little work there is is very engaging and helps you grasp the material. Also, SIMSOC was really fun.
To be prepared to do quite a bit of reading, but also to interact with others.  This is a great class.
Very interesting and not too much work; great to take as an elective to balance out a stressful schedule.
This class is fun and interesting and you don't really have to put in that much time/effort to get a good grade.
Felt too easy sometimes, which was disappointing because it could have been something great.
This material is not hard but it can be difficult to remember to do the work. Prof. Nelson is great but the class was too big and often disengaged.
This is definitely not the same Soc 43 that many people had enjoyed taking in years passed.  Professor Nelson is a good guy but the class is extremely dry.
This is an easy course that has a fair amount of mildly annoying assignments. But the readings are interesting and Nelson really cares about his students.
This is a very painless elective and intro sociology course. You can easily do well if you just go to lecture, even if you don't do the readings.
Definitely take this class, it is relatively easy if you go to lecture and/or do the readings and do the assignments.
I'd say the lectures are relatively useless but the topics are interesting and it's painless.
Great class that provides insight into regular everyday interactions that we take for granted.
The class is very boring and a large waste of time. You get 32 classes at Harvard and this one was not a memorable one.
It's a great class, but, as of right now, going to lecture is not really necessary because all the material you need is already on the lecture slides.
Great professor.
It is a very fun class because it focuses your attention on the details of life, which in my mind, are the substantial determinants of life.
Easy class if you stay on top of your stuff and attend lecture. The test questions come directly from the lecture slides.
This class is pretty easy and interesting.
Pretty easy class. Not much work or time commitment, and pretty interesting material as well.
It's a good course if you're interested in sociology.
Great, fairly easy class. Readings aren't always necessary, but they do help. Interesting intro to sociology. Can be a bit dry at points but overall good class.
Take this course!  You'll never be bored while sitting around other people again.
It's interesting subject matter, but is taught in such a way that makes it easy to slack off. You have to really know you will be dedicated to the subject matter before taking it.
pretty easy course except for the midterm which is very difficult
This is a fun intro of you want to do sociology, I feel like I learned some interesting things and became familiar with some sociological theorists , but it isn't a serious class
The course was thought to be a lot simpler than it actually was. The lectures were so awful so everyone was caught off guard when the exams were given.
Great class, interesting reading, fun activities
Just pay attention, do the readings and it should all be easy but accomplishing even that is difficult if you prematurely view this class as "easy"
Take this class. It is great!
This class teaches you a lot about social interactions and is very interesting.  There is not a lot of required work at all, so if you're looking for a relaxed class to add to your schedule, this is the one.
a very easy class, but you probably won't learn that much unless you personally invest in it & decide to do all the readings, think about the topics outside of class, & try to apply what you've learned to your daily life. I think one of the advantages is that the subjects you learn about are highly relevant to your daily experiences, but you have to actually care about what you're learning to get the most out of it.
it is an easy course, but not incredibly interesting
This course is a great intro course for sociology. You'll learn a lot of useful theory, and use it to look at daily occurrences through different lenses. Furthermore, the assignments for this class are SUPER FUN and allow you to see the theory at work. I would greatly recommend this for anyone who wants to explore sociology or for anyone who just wants an enjoyable, low-key class.
You learn a lot about the fundamentals of human social interaction in a laid back environment that includes plenty of fun and interactive activities.
This class will only give you what you put into it.  It is very easy to not go to class (or if you do, not pay attention to the lecture) and not do the readings and do well in the class.  However, I think you miss some of the nuances that would have been gained.
Easy A and you just might really like the material too! Good for those considering Sociology.
It is easy but ends up being boring at times and frustrating because of the weekly assignments.
The lectures, while not super exciting always, are very interesting and Professor Nelson does a very good job of covering the material from the readings and tying it all together. The reading is interesting. I really enjoyed this course.
This class is a basic sociology class, so it isn't too hard, but the focus of it is on our daily interactions, which makes it interesting.  I found myself applying the terms and theories to situations I found myself in every day.
painless, the professor is the man, you should take it.
This class is so interesting! It enhances how you interact with your peers and gives you a different lens to look at everyday life!
So much fun! It makes you look at the world differently
This is a great course and if you apply yourself, you will learn a TON of great stuff. This is a great course to see if Sociology is "your field"
Create study guides for the exams with a group.  Spark fun discussions in section.
This class is pretty interesting because it makes simple things seem much more complex, and the workload isn't too bad.
Interesting material; however, sometimes not presented in the best way.
Though the content of the course is quite interesting, the set-up is not particularly ideal.
Pleasantly surprised, really liked it.
Though it sounds like it's going to be a really fun class, I found it to be pretty boring.  Definitely sit in on the lectures during reading period to make sure you're interested.  The assignments are easy and usually pretty interesting, though, and I had a fun time with SIMSOC.
Readings are not always necessary. Some of it ridiculously dense and packed and will take awhile to get through (boredom).
Take this class! The concepts are applicable in daily life, and the class allows you to explore how that is the case.  Pay attention in lectures -- the best way to understand the course material and figure out what to take away from the readings.  Professor Nelson is terrific, and SIMSOC is fun even if it is a time-sucker.
it is a easy course and an  interesting topic but it is somewhat boring
The course content is very interesting and easy to follow.  A solid, easy class for anyone interested in studying people at a micro level.
It offers many interesting perspectives but is a poorly organized class.  It doesn't seem like there is a lot of communication between the professor and TFs.
Take it if you do not want to have a too heavy of a workload, however it is pretty boring and unorganized with an exception of an excellent experience with SIMSOC.
This course has the potential to be very fun and interesting.
This is a gem. nice class that is very interesting.
If you need structure in your class, don't take it.
This class is a lot of fun, and encourages participation, which is great!
This class was very easy, but I didn't take that much away from it. Sure, the material seems interesting at the beginning, but Professor Nelson is able to take some of the most interesting topics and make them boring. The class got more philosophical over time in the readings and lectures were pretty boring. You really don't have to do the readings (I just stopped halfway through) and before the exams, Professor Nelson gave us a study guide with questions. For the final, he picked the questions off of this sheet, and one of the TFs, gave us a study sheet that basically answered the questions. If you're looking for an easy A, this is a great course for you. On the other hand, if you want to come away from the course feeling like you've learned something substantial, choose another class in the department.
Although the class can be a bit boring at times, it really helped me realize my interest in Sociology. The workload is very manageable and the readings aren't always necessary. The class was organized very well, although the section was not very good (I expect this to be improved). If you're considering Sociology, this is a great class to learn some basics.
The material can be pretty dry if you're not really interested in Sociology. The lectures are an hour and a half and feel very long.
It sounds very interesting, and there are parts which are, but the course isn't designed in an effective way. It's easy,yes, but a waste of time.
This class is not always the most interesting, but it does offer a good look into the sociology concentration and is fairly easy.
The readings are not necessarily necessary, and lectures cover most of the material. The class is awesome and does not require much outside work. While lectures can get off to a slow start, they are always interesting and Nelson really enjoys his work.
some material interesting, overall not very engaging
It is a really good class if you are interested in sociology or social interaction and the coursework is flexible and manageable.
lectures may feel kind of boring/long if you're not super interested in the material. Make sure you take the class because you actually like the subject.
Painless and interesting if you actually do the work.
Interesting and easy.
this was a great class. very interesting, but pretty easy overall. the assignments were not particularly challenging. however, the midterm was incredibly hard. it was very hard to do well, especially if you did not finish and understand every single reading for the course. other than that, i really enjoyed it. the SIMSOC activity is a lot of fun, and the professor is really great!
always love the power points, but lecture is dry--he does a good job, but his power points are super good...sooooo. basically take it your senior spring
A good class to take if you have an interest in the subject, and who doesn't?  Participating in SIMSOC, though it took up a lot time, has been one of the most educational experiences of my time at Harvard.  The material can be a little too theoretical for my taste, but otherwise a good class with interesting assignments.
Really enjoyed the class and how it connects with the everyday aspects of my life
This is very interesting class. I knew nothing about Sociology going into it, and found myself constantly thinking about the material in everyday social interaction. I'd definitely recommend it as a painless, interesting, and fun elective to take for anyone remotely interested in learning about social interaction on a theoretical basis.
Although I was extremely gung-ho about this class at the beginning, my interest in the class diminished as the semester went on.
I hate to say it but this class is very easy. It requires very little from you. The response papers are short and not graded harshly. The exams are totally fine if you study. But, sadly, the class is not overly interesting
This class is great, take it!
It is a lot of fun but sections can be awful if you have the wrong TF like I did.
Unbelievable senior spring class. Hardly any work and the little amount of work you do have is manageable. Professor Nelson is amazing and teaches the material incredibly well.
Fun class. Full of athletes/final club members. SIMSOC is actually pretty fun!
It's a really chill class, not that many assignments, and personally I really enjoyed learning about how  and why people/groups interact. Readings are sometimes cool but are basically optional. Nelson's lectures were good not great, but the course was not the most engaging.
Pretty enjoyable class
interesting class, not too hard.
This was a pretty good class as an elective. Not to difficult, but most of the material is pretty simple and apparent. Overall, it was a fun and interesting class. As long as you read over the lecture slides and participate in section, you should do fine. Also, the readings are pretty interesting and make you think about social interactions in a different light. If you want a lighter class for your schedule, I would definitely recommend considering this class.
If you get involved in the content, this class will be one of the best you ever take.
You cover an incredible amount of information in this class. Professor Nelson does a great job of making the information accessible and connected to our every day lives.
very interesting course
The lectures are long and sometimes I walked out of them feeling as though I had not learned anything at all. The class is somewhat interesting though and if you love sociology, you should probably take it.
This class may not be difficult but only take it if you actually enjoy sociology.
Not difficult, but takes up unnecessary time out of your personal schedule. Tfs are all on different pages and some don't really know what's going on. Topics are pretty common sense.
Great class!
This course is not very difficult and many students are in it to not work hard, but the material is really interesting, so if you like the content and want to do the readings, you will learn a lot, but will probably find section boring.
The midterm was much more difficult than the class materials, lecture, and sections imply. Definitely do the readings before the midterm.
Easy into soch class, not as interesting as I had hoped.
there is not much work or time spent on this course. however the subject, lectures, and sections are very boring. the midterm was also unexpectedly difficult.
The class material and lectures were quite interesting.  An hour and a half felt too long for the lectures, and sometimes they moved a little slowly.  Lectures would have been more interesting if Professor Nelson had incorporated more real-life examples or case-studies.  Section was very boring and felt totally unnecessary.  The first few journals are interesting and fun to do but then begin to feel like busy-work.
This class was less amazing than I expected. I was really excited for it to be a very interactive hands on class where we got to have fun breaking norms of society. I also heard the simulated society assignment was really fun from those who got to do it. Because of the Boston bombings, it was cancelled for much of the class and the organizational difficulties of figuring out how to grade an assignment that only part of the class was able to do is likely to affect Q scores, so keep that in mind. This class has a lot of potential but 1. Most of the TFs were foreign and  communication was difficult, especially because this was a class about social interaction and the norms and interactions of their cultures were different than our own. 2. The lectures are usually 1 hour and 15-20 minutes. They really could and should be compressed into an hour, making the hour and a half time drag on a bit.
This course is pretty neat. But its a little useless.
stay on top of journals
Great class with interesting lectures. You'll learn things that may seem intuitive, but that you'll think about every day.
This has become my favorite course at Harvard. Easy workload, interesting material and Professor Nelson is the best. If you are on the bubble, I strongly encourage you to take this class.
Not too hard. There are a lot of journals, but they were interesting to write. The midterm is surprisingly difficult though.
This class was interesting mainly because of the case studies that each sociology theory
Very easy, but painless...and the journal entries can be interesting
This class is easy, and as a result, not a very rewarding experience.
Interesting material; study for the midterm; a lot of little assignments
Learning about how people interact is fascinating and the assignments are unlike any other course. Assignments take you outside of the classroom and situate you in the everyday interaction between people.
The class is enjoyable and teaches you things you to analyze things you see everyday.
A very interesting course, though everything discussed seems like "common sense." Very manageable.
This is a great introductory sociology class that won't overwhelm you with theorists and concepts. Everything is easily applicable to the real world, and is actually very interesting.
This class is entertaining and applicable to real world situations. Professor Nelson is great, especially if you can appreciate his deadpan sense of humor. It is painless and fun for all.
This was a wonderful class that was both interesting and intellectually stimulating. The professor is wonderful and makes you feel validating in all your comments and ideas.
sometimes interesting but sometimes really boring and disorganized.  too much focus on the readings.
The class was enjoyable, I learned a lot about different kinds of Sociological thinking in a fun and interesting way!
The journal assignments are not as bad as they seem and they help learn the course material
The lecture is a little dry, but the subject is fascinating.
The work is fairly easy; you don't even need to really do the readings if you attend lecture (and you probably don't need to attend lecture if you've done all of the readings).
This class is a great elective, and very interesting because of the SIMSOC activity.
amazing class much easier than it originally seems
have fun with SIMSOC...
take if you're looking for a very easy course while you're writing your thesis, trying to have a fun semester
It was fun but kind of easy
Keep up with reading
The course content is fascinating, and the lectures are great.
interesting and easy
too much writing and time outside of class
A fun and interesting class.  Highlights several very interesting modes of inquiry in sociology.
It's an enjoyable course with minimal work which is hard to find at Harvard.
interesting and relatively easy course, but there are lots of assignments.
It's one of the most interesting courses I have ever taken.
Great Class!
Easy, interesting, enjoyable
The course work isn't too heavy and section is really fun. This is the most interactive class I've taken at Harvard so far. I also really liked how the class was so applicable to everyday life. We would learn something and then say "oh yes, I've recognized that happening at school etc."
great sociology course, whether you are interested in sociology or not.
I enjoyed this class because the readings and assignments were so interesting--they were about topics that I talk to my friends about: the dynamics of facebook, breaking up, or finals clubs. That said, it was disappointing how poorly this fascinating information was presented in lecture and discussed in section; we just skimmed the surface of the topics and readings, we never got to have in depth discussions about the material due to the section size, and both the professor and TF were frankly boring--they came off as disinterested and unenthusiastic.I enjoyed all the individual activities--reading and writing--of the class but the group parts--section and lecture--could definitely be better. So the material was excellent, but the teaching poor.
Easy class with interesting material.
it was so interesting because it was clear how the material was directly related to our lives.  i appreciated all of it and learned a lot.
Such a fun class!  Really makes you think about your daily social interactions.
You don't have to pay attention in lecture much. Just do the readings and look at the lecture slides later.
keep up with the materials and attend lectures
fun, exciting, learn something new everyday
I would recommend doing the readings on your own time. Take the class once the teaching irons itself out.
This class was interesting and informative.  It covered the basic material of Social Interactions and was a good introduction to Sociology.
Interesting subject matter and an easy class overall.
It's somewhat interesting topic, however so much of it is just common sense.  Also many of the problems with the course might be fixed by having it be in its second year.
Very worthwhile and interesting if student is interested in taking the concepts and studies seriously! Bring a personal perspective in it and use it as an opportunity to consider your own life - necessary for journal entries!
Good class for people interested in sociology or looking to fulfill a psychology requirement.
This class is fun and fairly easy to do well in.
Tolerable and fun.
This sounds like way more fun than it actually is. Be prepared to deal with disorganization and confusion.
very interesting and fun at the same time also well taught
I recommend this class if you are willing to attend every lecture, and committ yourself to an overwhelming number of pages of reading per week.
Flexible professor, great section leaders, nt that much homework or reading. Great class.
nice intro to sociology and social theory, and could be a nice elective if your interested.
Sure, it's easy -- but it's incredibly boring and will seem incredibly useless.
The best way to think about this class is how it applies to your own life, and that way the material is easier to remember.  A cursory reading of the material will get you by fine, but it's interesting stuff.
It was pretty easy and the work load isn't too hard but that's because it doesn't have to be.  You still learn a ton without tedious long essays/papers or problems sets.  It's an excellent elective to fill out your schedule or a great way to try out sociology.
Enjoyable introduction to Sociology.
Fine if you have the time to invest in the response papers and Simsoc
Words could not describe my disappointment with this class. It was an utter train wreck. I'm sure others will give it good marks because it was so easy, but the professor should not be allowed to teach a class, let alone at Harvard. I sincerely wish President Faust could sit in one of lecture today, that started at 10:15 when Professor Nelson walked in, wearing sandals!
The class is certainly more fun and relevant than others, but a good portion of the class does not seem to take it seriously. If you will be bothered by this, you might not enjoy the groupwork as much. Otherwise, Professor Nelson and the TF's are all great, and the workload is very light.
It covers a wide range of topics that are very interesting and apply to your day to day life.
Enjoyable way to rethink how social interactions work and gets you to watch more closely other people interacting and better evaluate what steps it is that they are performing in such interactions.
This was an interesting way to relate what you see going on in social groups, classrooms, and family settings in an academic way that students could learn from.
This class is amazing!
I think students who are new to the Sociology department would find this course engaging and interesting. The material is worth reading and Tim Nelson is not a bad lecturer.
This class was at once extremely informative and completely enjoyable. The only downsides were SimSoc and awkward section encounters, but overall I tremendously enjoyed the experience.
If you like this material, then you may like this class. But be sure you like the material. Otherwise, you will not be happy and will be wondering why you wasted your time.
It is a relatively easy class; however, it is not as interesting as it seems, and there are a lot of weekly assignments and readings.
If you need an intro sociology class, it's not bad.  But if you are interested in applied sociology, take a higher-level course.  The theory gets very mundane and the grading is difficult.
Unless you're a concentrator, take this class Pass/Fail.  It is too much work  otherwise and not worth the effort.  Professor Nelson is nonetheless excellent.
It is a good way way to fulfill your intro to soc requirement as well as social anaylsis if you choose to not major in sociology.
T nelson is boss
It is extremely fun but don't expect it to be a breeze. It was deceptively hard.
Lot of reading, but you don't really have to do it all. You can get away with reading little, although you would be well-served to read for tests.
Although there are a lot of readings, most of them are actually very interesting and quite enjoyable. Study groups are a great way for preparing for exams.
don't worry about simsoc.  it turned out to be really fun.
definitely recommend the course  - enhances your perspective on social interactions.
You learn a lot about interactions you experience or observe everyday and it helps you view them from a new (and more interesting) perspective
Make sure you do the readings, because you will be tested on pretty specific details and the review sessions (when they exist) are not helpful
it is fun, interesting and relevant and the journals are easy to fulfill if you stay on top of the class topics
it is an interesting class but lacks some organization. i think it will be improved upon for next year though.
It's very informative and interesting, and more importantly, applicable to every day life!
I thought the class was fairly graded.
You learn about some pretty cool things in this course, and SIMSOC and the journal entries are the best part.
spend time studying for exams
A lot of reading to do but enjoyable discussions and manageable courseload (journal assignments)
You learn a lot of interesting, relevant information.
This class is somewhat interesting, and very easy.
