Take this class!  It's fun and useful (esp. if you want to work after college).  Doing the reading is more or less unnecessary.  Go to lecture - Ager is wonderful and tries to include students in the discussion as much as possible.
Professor Ager is a very accessible and entertaining professor.  Section discussions are also entertaining.
hard, but lectures are interesting and section is fun.
Prof. Ager is one of the best professors I have had at Harvard. The class is very good at integrating organizational theory with examples. The material is very interesting. The workload is very reasonable and you will leave this class knowing a lot about organizations regardless how hard you work for it.
take it for first-hand experience in evaluating an organization and understanding some basic introduction to sociology
They should be prepared to take in a lot of information and process it quickly.  Then choose the important stuff and throw out the rest.
Practical, fun, insightful, and the teaching staff cares about teaching... you're sure this is still Harvard college?
Take it if you're at all interested in business, leadership, or organizations.
A lot of learning relative to the little work required; good if you don't expect earth-shattering revelations from it.
Only take this class if you want to go to business school.
I would tell future students that it is a great way to fulfill the introduction to sociology requirement for sociology majors.  For non-concentrators interested in business or wanting to understand how organizations work this is the class to take.  It was an amazing class that I really liked and would recommend to anyone who is interested enough to even ask about it.
Do the readings on time. Consistently. If I took this again, I'd a) not order my book (got it late and was behind on reading from the get-go) and b) get together a study group to take notes on each reading.
This is one of the best courses you could probably take as as undergrad at Harvard. Don't miss your chance!
This class is great for anyone looking to take a class on the world of business.
It was interesting enough, but only if you have an interest in the analysis of organizations.
It would probably be better with a better section leader, but the subject matter is still pretty dry.
Although the topic sounds dull, the course was really interesting and a lot of fun. It is definitely useful for anyone since almost everyone will be a part of or work in an organization.
That perhaps there is no engaging way to teach the sociology of organizations (even for a talented professor).
I would just tell them to be prepared to work hard on the final project.
the class is pretty disorganized but it does present some interesting concepts and overall it was pretty harmless.
pretty interesting material and the assignments are not difficult. the teaching staff also enjoy the class and are invested in it
Great class, good material, and an awesome chance to see some case studies and really get a feel for how companies work and how they come to be successful
This class focuses on a very relevant and interesting topic, and is one of the only classes at Harvard that discusses corporations and organizations in any context. However, I would definitely warn people considering this class that it does NOT have the most interesting or engaging of lectures. Section is nice because it's based on HBS case studies, and the assignments (3 short essays + final) are all very fair.
This class gives you a better understanding of why organizations are structured in the way that they are today. The course work is pretty minimal.
This is an interesting class and gives a good introduction to the sociology of organizations. I would recommend it to anyone interested in business, but it is a cool class and not too much work.
The ironic thing about this class is that it is about organizations, but is itself very poorly organized. We were given assignments of Wikipedia entries that had extremely strict word limits that hindered good writing and fully answering the prompt resulting in feedback like "explain this more." TFs were definitely not uniform in their grading and expectations for assignments, so when taking this class with friends, don't take their word for what their TF said to hold true for you as well. In addition, grades felt so arbitrary because the assignments did not provide a rubric. The sad thing is that the HBS case studies are actually very interesting and the material is also quite interesting. The class has lots of potential, but is SO frustrating because of the grading and assignments.
The lecture slides aren't that well organized which makes lecture seem a little random but other than that, the class was manageable, not too hard, and interesting.
This class wasn't the most interesting at times, but the assignments were very manageable and the TFs were always nice and helpful with these assignments, especially when the instructions weren't very clear.
The lectures are very boring and you don't need to go to them.
It's an easy class. The wikipedia assignments are short but require a bit of research. The final is straightforward if you do the readings (or make a study group for the final). Prof. Dobbin can be a bit pretentious (jokingly perhaps...) in his lectures. He doesn't engage students in the material very well.
The course material in this class was very interesting. However that does not counteract the bad lectures, weird wikipedia article-style writing assignments, and lack of good TFs. Not the greatest of courses.
Interesting course, practical, can alter how you think about businesses, and easy
Take this if you ever want to start a business or find a career in finance
The assignments in this class are unnecessarily (and unintentionally) painful. To do well on the assignments, you literally need to "dumb down" your writing because your papers are supposed to be structured as Wikipedia articles. Too bad most of our papers kept getting taken down from Wikipedia. Who knew - encyclopedias aren't supposed to contain research papers written for a college class. In addition, the assignment prompts are ambiguous, poorly written, and generally unsuitable for any kind of intelligent, analytical writing. Not to mention, the grading is unbelievably arbitrary. The most frustrating part of the course was the lectures. They are so unorganized and meaningless. I made the mistake of going to every single one in the hopes that I would learn something. I was repeatedly proven wrong. Don't waste your time with this class.
It's really easy so if you need an easy class, take it. It has some correlation with an interest in business. You won't learn that much that you don't already know.
This course is geared towards non-sociology concentrators (mainly people who know they're going into investment banking, etc and want business management experience). It is not a good course for those who are interested in sociology as a concentration, regardless of its status as an intro class. Assignments (for the first time, from my understanding) were supposed to be written and posted like Wikipedia pages. It's a great response to the cheating scandals recently, but there's a frisson between writing for your TF (academically) versus writing for the general public. Lectures can also be painfully awkward. Professor Dobbins will not give up awkward silences and will wait it out. Section can be similar. The material is great if you're interested and there are many overarching themes that make it conceptually great, but there are probably better classes out there.
The subject is interesting, but make sure you know what is expected on the assignments because they are graded harshly.
I thought this would be a fun, interesting elective. NO. It was the worst course I have taken at Harvard by far. Ironically, the class had almost zero organization: Grading was completely arbitrary, assignments were pretty useless (wiki entries) and no rubric was given, feedback was laughable, and most of the TF's were not fluent in English.Here were my suggested improvements-- which can give you a flavor of what this class really is.1) Have TF's that can better speak the English language. I do not intend to be mean, but honestly, in a class based on discussion, having a TF struggle with communicating in English is unacceptable at a top rate university in the world2) Have clear assignment instructions and rubric. The "wiki" assignments were incredibly dumb. The grading was completely arbitrary. Not once were we given some kind of rubric for how to make our paper a "good wiki." That's really unacceptable since the assignment format is very unusual-- a wiki assignment with no thesis.3) Incorporate "participation" as part of the grading. How can it only detract from your score? That doesn't make sense. Furthermore, it's supposed to be discussion-based, so why is this not a part of the grade?
it is very manageable and interesting
Some TFs wanted too much out of short wikipedia articles, so be wary of taking this course because the papers are shorter.
Professor Dobbin is a leader in his field and a clear, engaging lecturer. Guest lectures assumes that you understand the basic vocabulary of finance. Take some time to pick up key phrases from online guides before taking this course, and you'll be set to participate in full. HBS case studies are fantastic - take this class if only to engage with this content from a sociological perspective. It's a joy.
This is not one of Harvard's finest. Lectures were not great, the assignments were not difficult but just not fun at all. I would not recommend this class.
a lot of reading, but not bad. the assignments are not too taxing and the course was much more enjoyable than i thought it would be at the start
Very interesting material and lectures, although written assignments were a bit confusing regarding what the actual question/guidelines are.
I hope they offer it again. Best class ive taken. Easy, fun, interesting, and easy
Great class. Interesting, manageable work load, and great professor.
Materials are interesting. Lectures could possibly be the worst. Tangents with no ends and frequent moments of awkward silences.
the lectures are hard to follow, but what you actually learn is helpful in the real world
The class was a lot harder than expected and there was a lot of reading.
It was a little dull sometimes, but interesting when related to the present.
The course material and case studies are really interesting. They apply to a lot of current-day organizations and the world of business in general. However, Professor Dobbin isn't the most energetic lecturer. He teaches the course well but with stuff as interesting as this, I'd think he could be more enthusiastic and engaging during lecture. At times it was difficult to pay attention because it seemed that even the Professor wasn't interested in the topic at hand.
learn a lot without doing a lot of work
this class requires a pulse and that is about it for a good grade. that said, you probably won't learn anything.
This class is interesting and the case study component really brings the material to life.
It is what you make of it. If you invest yourself you can learn and probably retain a lot of very cool information but if you dont motivate yourself you can slide by without learning much at all
The class is very easy and the content is interesting and relevant
Take it if you are interested in business and organizations.
The topic is interesting but the course itself does not have interesting material and is not taught well.
The reading is a little dry, but the assignments are not too tough.
The course covers extremely interesting material that is very relevant to our everyday lives. Dobbin is a great lecturer and very knowledgeable about the subject matter. The reading list is great, and the topics covered in this course all fit together in a very cohesive manner. You really learn a lot from this class, and the sections are great!
Pretty easy and straight-forward class
Interesting content, lectures were great. Expectations for assignments were unclear. Final was extremely straightforward. Section component of the course was engaging and Christy did a great job facilitating discussion. The case studies are a great supplement to the material learned in class.
It teaches you basics about sociology and business organization.
Read the case studies because they are applicable and quite enjoyable.
Awesome course; interesting lectures and readings, and the assignments were definitely manageable.
take it
This class is a great learning tool for one who wants to go into the business world. This class describes the changing business world through an organizational lens.
The material and the case studies are actually pretty interesting. Its a bit frustrating that half of the grade is based on writing wikipedia articles and the grading can seem arbitrary at times. The final exam was fair as long as you had studied.
The assignments, though short, are more involved than you might expect and wikipedia is not the easiest format to get used to.
Take this class. It's super easy, low time commitment, and really really interesting. Prof Dobbin is great, clearly was a bro back in the day, gives great lectures, and hands out chocolate on multiple occasions. Also get Gru Han for your TF - he's also hilarious and also provides food during section...
I personally found the material to be very interesting, but the readings often got boring.  Vince Feng's sections were interesting, although we never really had much of a discussion going on.  Case studies were pretty interesting though.  And after studying for the final, I realized that I did indeed learn a lot from this course.
Great course. Dobbin is a great lecturer and the material is very relevant to everything going on in the world since everything is an organization. Highly recommend and the course work is very manageable with short assignments.
This was a very enjoyable course. The material is fascinating and the HBS case studies enhance the theoretical concepts and are very interesting. It is a painless and worthwhile class. I highly recommend it!
The class was very interesting and practical. The readings were Case Studies that described the operation of actual firms so it was very intriguing to read.
I would tell future students to shop this class carefully and think through the decision to take it before enrolling.  I jumped into it without much thought, and definitely regretted my decision.  Although I understand that it is a class that people think is "easy," I found myself bored in class and frustrated that almost everyone came to section without having done any of the week's readings.  I also found Professor Dobbin to be a little bit hard to follow, and not the most effective lecturer.  Furthermore, I found the subject material to be much more about business and economics than I had anticipated.  Unless you are interested in business or economics long-term, I wouldn't take this course.
I didn't really appreciate this class until taking the final exam- lectures are kind of boring, and sections are a little weird. But in studying for the exam, I realized I learned a ton, and that it was helpful and interesting knowledge- so I would recommend it.
Boring lecture, boring readings, boring class.
The class was really interesting and fun, but the assignments were vague and lacked sufficient guidance.
good introductory course to sociology
The lectures were not very good, but the section component was great.  Relaxed, not too much work, and some interesting topics are covered.
The material in this class has been the most-applicable to material found in the real world than any other course I have taken.  This class significantly helps you understand the workings of companies, and the workload of the course is very manageable and interesting
It is interesting but a bit dry.
Class topics are very interesting. The assignments were very easy and Professor Dobbin is great. Definitely a great elective
Great course.  Professor Dobbin is a great lecturer and tries to tailor the class to relevant themes in consulting, banking, etc. Very enjoyable section and assignments aren't too onerous.
Really a history of organizations course. Not as easy or as interesting as it seems during shopping period. It may seem like an easy elective, but get ready to put in a lot of busy work in a poorly run class.
BEWARE! This class does not deliver what is advertised.  Lectures are extremely difficult to follow and apply to the readings and section.  Professor Dobbin is a great person- very charismatic and fair, but this class itself is terrible.  Seriously reconsider taking this class if you want to.
I loved the class- the lectures and the case studies, but I wasn't fond of the Professor's attitude and personality.  He presented a personal skewed bias too often in lecture.
This has been my favorite class at Harvard so far. I think that it is extremely helpful to understand organizations and the class did a great job of explaining the structure of organizations.
It's an easy class with interesting material. The workload is pretty nonexistent... I went to all the lectures but I know some people who did well in the class without going to most of them.
This class presents interesting material in a completely understandable way.  No matter if you are interested in sociology, understanding how organizations work and how to manage a workforce will be valuable in any future career aspirations.
It's about business management (wow; how in the world did I enroll without realizing what the course was going to be like?) but you can learn quite a bit if you do the readings.
This was the best class I have ever taken.  It taught me so much about "the real world" outside of Harvard, and I looked forward to Dobbin's lectures every week.
You will come to understand society in a new way and realize how organizations emerged to exist as they are today.
Great course for senior spring! Interesting topics. It's really neat to learn about the history of business and management theories. I would say this is a good introduction to the business literature AND what sociology is all about. A nice balance of the two. Professor Dobbin is also a hysterical lecturer (whether intentional or not). He has these wonderful stories, and rewards people who come to lecture with free stuff! What's not to like? The readings...although sometimes long...are written mostly in plain English and are comprehensible by a non-humanities major. The HBS case studies are really great to read. And, it's prolly one of the cheapest classes when it comes to textbooks. The pre-section / reading questions make doing the readings actually useful. The papers are manageable and fair. Overall, this is a nice straight-forward course. No one is trying to trick you or make life unbearably difficult for you like some other classes. The material is interesting, teaching staff is great, and you do take a lot away from the course.
Take it if you really have to.
Be sure to have a background in business.
Very interesting subject matter with strong lectures and sections! Not a hard way to fulfill or requirement and a good elective to take if you are considering going into business post-college.
Professor Dobbin was a very good lecturer, and he made going to lecture not so bad. The material was generally interesting, and his stories were relevant and funny.
This was a great class--one of the best I have taken at Harvard.
Great if you want some exposure to business cases and to theories of business management and corporate strategy.
great class for anyone interested in business and management. though sometimes, the terminology can be confusing for anyone not familiar with econ or business, but the tfs are always willing to clear up any confusion.
a great sociology intro course
I have mixed feelings. The teaching staff is great, but the material and readings can get complex, grueling, and unnecessarily long. The use of case studies are the one bright spot in the readings material. The course doesn't really seem to flow either... at times things just feel like a hodgepodge of topics all thrown together.
Interesting course
Its good if you want to learn about business strategy.
This is a great class that at first seems like it's great for people with an interest in business, but it's much more than that.  Anybody who is interested in organizations in general, power dynamics, inequality, or the "progress" of society should take this class.
If you are interested in business/consulting, this is definitely the class to take. Especially if you are not very math-oriented.
A truly interesting class which gives you insight into how businesses are organized throughout history. A must-take for any student who wants to go into the business world.
There are only 3 essays that are not very difficult, and the final is not horribly difficult either.  However, the weekly readings are hard to get through, lecture is pretty boring.  Section is great though (you read HBS case studies).
Go to the lectures, they are interesting and a lot of the exam questions are on material covered in them.
90% of us will spend much of our lives working in a corporation, and 99.9% of us will be working as part of an organization (or at least dealing with one) - definitely worth it to examine how and why they are set up the way they are.  Few courses at Harvard have the same applicability to daily life and certainly professional life after college.  Very painless, assignments and exams on the whole pretty fair.  TFs very approachable, accessible, dedicated, and super informative.
Be prepared for sections; it will save you embarrassment and will help you immensely later on
The course is actually great and provides a good balance between helping to build practical skills that might help you  get a job in consulting (if that's what you're into) via the case studies and helping you to think sociologically. I particularly like how this course taught me to become more skeptical about efficiency arguments backing the many strategies firms pursue. My TF was great at helping us to tease apart the cases. The assignments for this class were rather tedious, however, and graded in a way as though they were expecting a certain right answer. I was frustrated sometimes with my peers, many of whom didn't set this class as a priority and never did the readings. This made section discussions sometimes rather awkward and somewhat superficial.
Whether you're interested in the public or private sectors, this class will illuminate some of the problems inherent in large organizations of any nature. So, if you're interested in hearing about that, then take this course.
It's not that hard of a class.  I recommend having a strong interest in the subject if you want to take it though because otherwise it'll be really boring.
Very heavy on theory so some of the readings are a little dense, but the HBS case studies are great and in general the course is very relevant and applicable if you are interested in business, non-profit management, etc.
Very interesting material. You learn a great deal about management practices and organizational theories.
This class felt like a business management class, which is not an explicit genre at Harvard. I liked being able to learn about management of organizations and businesses in a relatively student-friendly framework without the hassles of many ec classes. Sections are great. Be prepared to engage with a lot of ideas and form your own. This is not a passive class.
This course provides you a whole different way of looking at everything, especially changing the rationalist-economistic way outlook. In addition, the course has incredibly informative lectures, and very productive sections that it is definite that you will learn a lot. This is one of those courses with only a moderate amount of reading (which is also incredibly interesting), but every reading provides you with a lot of insight. In short, it's definitely a low-risk, high return course.
Besides the case studies and the lectures this course is extremely boring and is definitely not as easy as it seems in the first few weeks.
If you want to learn something useful in your years at Harvard, take this class.
The exam is a bit harder than you might expect, given the unexpected two-hour limit. Overall, however, the class was enjoyable. It provides you with a very thorough guide to the history of organizations in America.
This course is great if you want to get an idea of the different types of jobs available in the labor market. Also worth taking if you ever see yourself in a managerial position or at least a position with subordinates.
This class is a really interesting look at the development of management systems and organizations. Definitely a worthwhile class to take.
because of professor dobbin, it is unclear what gain you will receive because he is somewhat all over the place
it's a good intro to sociology class, especially if you're interested in business at all. it's all about american business, in fact. dobbins is entertaining.
this is a great class for anyone interested in how businesses think - especially how they do not always act "efficiently."  it is not particularly difficult, and all of the readings are very interesting - particularly the case studies.
Do not show up to any of the lectures. Do not do any of the readings. Just go to section and join a study group at the end and you'll dominate the class.
It is a great class and I fully recommend it.
Interesting and not terribly demanding class. Assignments and grading can be frustrating sometimes. Material is interesting but sometimes not well synthesized.
Great professor, great TF, interesting course material, good readings - everything was positive
It is very helpful if you hope to pursue a career in business.
Be sure to attend class.  It may sound basic but a large percentage of the class is not there by the middle of the year.  If you don't have the time to do the reading, it's fine because most people never do the reading anyway.
If you have any interest in how businesses have evolved and how they function today, this is a great introductory class.
It's not for everyone--you have to like the HBS cases and you have to like the type of readings we do, which are a mix of organizational theory and history. But if you are interested in that sort of thing, I full recommend it.
A great intro sociology course to take especially if you are interested in business and management.
This is a great class, is interesting and does not require too much of your time.
Be prepared to engage interactively in section
The course is very interesting, and can be very helpful for people interested in pursuing any form of business.
great topics, good introduction to business studies, however the professor can be a bit dry in lecture
The course was very interesting and helped me picked a concentration that I feel I will love.
If you are interested in organizational management, especially around business, this is the course that you absolutely have to take.
This course is fantastic for analyzing the professional world in a new lens - whereas other classes at Harvard teach economics and history, this course looks at how people work together within organizations, as well as how organizations work with each other and the world around them.  It is truly fascinating, especially for anyone who intends to one day go to business school.
This was my favorite class I have taken at Harvard yet. With the most real-world material yet, I enjoyed the readings and loved making up my own paper topics.
Take this course! Material is widely applicable to anyone and is not difficult to understand. Relatively light course load with just three papers and a final throughout the semester. Professor Dobbin and the TFs are great with helping you do well.
Take this class!
The course material is actually relevant to business. It applies concepts and organizational theory to real world examples (mergers, acquisitions, etc.) and has really interesting material. If you are interested in corporate America at all this is a great course for you given it's an easy sell for "what's your favorite class and why?"
This course is a good introduction both to the sociology of organizations and a good introduction to more quantitative sociology in general. It is not, however, mind-blowing.
This is one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard (and I'm a senior so there have been quite a few). It's one of the few classes I feel like taught me real and useful information I will use after graduation and for the rest of my life. You learn what effective management practices look like, and why the shareholder-value model exists. I was just fascinated from day one. Lectures are incredible (Prof. Dobbin is so funny!) and discussing cases in section was great too.
If you're at all interested in sociology or business, take this class. Prof Dobbin is fascinating and the material is relevant and important.
Pay attention in lecture...
Really interesting class, but poorly designed. Would recommend only if they change the way section works
Definitely take this course if you're interested in both sociology and business. It is not that much work and Professor Dobbin makes it really interesting.
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard since it applied an academic and structured lens to many of the teams in my life--extracurriculars, group projects, etc. If you are interested in learning about business from a social perspective and want to dive deeper into topics like management strategy, corporate strategy, and gender wage inequality, definitely take SOC25. The teaching staff is incredibly supportive and enthusiastic as well!
Great course. Super interesting. Not super difficult
Explains everything!
Interesting material but lecture and section can be dry and overly theroetical at times.
This class is not that good. There's a ton of theory, and it focuses a ton on democracy and not that much on other business and organizational practices. The graphs are a little confusing, and the readings are super dense. Would not recommend if just taking for an elective.
It's a good class - lectures are interesting with Prof. Dobbin and sections are great because you use real HBS case studies to go apply the theories learned in class.
This course provides an interesting introduction to the history and evolution of corporations and organizations. I would definitely recommend it for the general understanding that you'll gain about the changes in how the world runs. No prior sociology knowledge is necessary, but is of course helpful if you have it.
Skimming readings is more than enough
This class was a total gem- all the assessments were very fair and Professor Dobbin was really engaging during his lectures. I also feel as though this is one of the few classes at Harvard (considering we don't have a business major) that actually gives you some sort of view into the corporate world.
Prof. Dobbin is a real expert in his field. Also, he is really funny, so I always enjoyed going to his lectures. The course combines sociology with economics, so it may be interesting for students thinking about concentrating im sociology or as a complement for economics majors.
3 papers, 1 final exam. Be sure to ask specifically for grading rubrics for papers because generally quite vague.
It is boring. While the professor is very knowledgeable and a leader in his field, the content is not that interesting and the readings each week are painful. My section leader was terrible which did not help.
Definitely take this class if you are interested in business and especially management. I learned so much about the way that corporations developed and now operate, and about many of the issues that people face in the workplace today. Dobbin's lectures are great and he offers interesting anecdotes and insights about each of the topics, and the readings are really interesting (so you should really try to read as many of them as you can).
The lectures are good. The section was terrible. The readings vary, with some being really fascinating and applicable. This class does have real life application/ relevance so that is why I liked it.
It will be up to you to judge if you'd like this course - if you're interested in how businesses have evolved and have an interest in organizational behavior, this would be interesting. Especially if you're going into consulting or finance, this course can help put business trends in perspective. Others may be frustrated by the large range of topics (breadth, not necessarily depth in this course) and the vague essay prompts. The key though is to keep up with readings even though doing so is not required to participate in section.
This is an excellent class. The material you learn is so interesting and really gets you thinking about the modern organization and evolution of corporate strategies. It does a great job at combining more dense theoretical approached with really fun and enjoyable HBS case studies. Prof. Dobbin is so great and HUGE in the sociology field. Definitely take a class with him! And Gru is an amazing TF! The papers are definitely challenging, but force you to think deeply about the readings and the course material (and outside info that you bring) at the same time. All in all a great class, definitely would recommend!
Very interesting lectures, but not very deep content.
This course covered a lot of great material, but was a little too easy, making it difficult to stay focused throughout the semester
This class is super memorization-based. If you want a glimpse at various theories on management and bureaucracies, take this class. If you're looking for a more analytical class that engages you in a less fact-based way, don't take this.
Loved the class. Essays were straightforward and not overwhelming. Nicely spaced out. Final was easy! Readings can be dense, but are worth the reading. Dobbin rocks as a lecturer, cares about the students and is the best.
I found the course to be mostly painless and more relevant to the real word than most of the courses you'll take at Harvard. Lectures are reasonably engaging and section was relaxed. This won't be a bridge to other courses in the Sociology department for me, but I did enjoy this course.
Amazing course if you are thinking about going into business after graduation. Gives both a historical account of management and business practices, but then also challenges students to think about real-world situations.
This course is a great elective to take if you are considering corporate finance, law, consulting, or any other type of Wall St. career. You will not learn anything useful for interviews, but you will learn about the structure of corporations, management styles and theories, structural biases and stereotypes in recruiting for elite jobs, and theories on how to increase diversity in the workplace. The three essay assignments are short and very straightforward. You pretty much just apply one or two theories that you study to a real-life example of your choice. Very manageable. Professor Dobbin is great, really laid back and insightful. He is friendly and even brought in hand-made chocolate one class to illustrate the difference between mass-produced factory goods and hand-crafted goods!! That being said, his lectures usually start off really interestingly but by the middle he starts rambling and most people have already zoned off or fell asleep. Take this class if you are looking for an easy, enjoyable elective!
Quite an easy class but be prepared to not learn much during section and feel frustrated by the assignments.  Professor Dobbin is fantastic, however.
This class stands as a complement to economically-oriented discussions on organizations, markets and corporate strategy. Instead of assuming rationality, the course attempt to both historicize and provide social context to the decisions made by firms. It is arguably more helpful than economics for understanding why certain choices are made in the economy. If you can get through the readings (which seem a little excessive), this class will be very helpful.
This is an excellent class on material that is hard to find at Harvard outside of HBS (corporate history and decision-making), but I'd be wary of the TFs and expect somewhat arbitrary grading on the assignments.
I enjoyed the course, given that the material was really interesting. However, lectures were sometimes hard to get through, given that they were not always easy to follow/connected to the readings.
If you're interested in business and are sad that Harvard doesn't offer a business degree for undergrad, this is a great class (especially because it's partially taught in the case method from HBS so that's good). Great overview of many practical business concepts, but still in an academic way that you probably haven't though of before. Dobbin is a little bit of an unusual lecturer and is really difficult to follow sometimes, but overall a good course and not at all difficult if you pay decent attention for at least most of the time.
This class is interesting and very easy. Take it if you want to learn some cool things about companies but want to cruise.
Professor Dobbin is a great professor that is focused on teaching students the information that matters and can be applied once we leave school and enter in the professional workforce. Rather than focusing on the nit-picky details that many teachers unfortunately do, Professor Dobbin makes concepts and information understandable without going too far in depth.
fun!
This is a fantastic course.  It gives a great survey of the evolution of organizations and strikes a great balance between interesting material and reasonable workload.  Sections are engaging.  I strongly recommend.
If you are interested in business at all, take the class.  It is 10 times more informative and applicable to the general business world than any of the generic econ classes.
Super interesting topic, applicable to across all disciplines - must take if going into industry!
This course is theory-heavy.
Don't take this course as an 'easy/senior spring/cop out course.  Not that it will eat you alive, but I think it ruins the quality of the course for those of us who are in it to learn the material in a meaningful way.
It is a very fair class. The material is interesting and relevant. The assignments are useful in understanding the material. There are no surprises- the work is doable as long as you try.
This class was great to take. You learn a ton about organizational theory and management practices. Great for those interested in these fields. The material was very relevant and the course utilizes a lot of case studies to supplement. The readings can get extremely dense and long, however.
The readings can be long, but the section slides are helpful.
Very engaging lectures and sections.
This class is easy enough. The papers take some time, but they are essentially the only real work that you have for the class other than the final. Lectures are a bit boring/slow - if you can get the video and watch it '2x' I would do that. Christy was wonderful.
Dobbin talks in a very dry manner but the material outlined in his lectures is great. Case studies seem like a big part of the course at the beginning, but they actually aren't used that extensively. Overall, the course is really great because of the material, but it isn't to die for. I would say you can learn all the things you would learn in it from a textbook!
Ignore all the Q-scores from before this year. They have completely redone the course and the assignments. I really enjoyed this class...lecture was always interesting and the assignments were fair (3 short papers) and helped with your understanding of the course.
Great class.   Prof. Dobbin has great lectures and the workload is minimal
fantastic course, very interesting
This is a very good class for anyone interested in business or life itself.
Great class that provides you with an extensive introduction to practices and processes within organizations. Professor Dobbin is a good lecturer and Christy Ley is a great TF!
For anyone interested in going into business, this course is essential. The opportunity to study HBS Cases should definitely be taken advantage of!
Do not take this course as your introduction to sociology. It is more of a preparation course for those that are graduating and moving into the real world. Definitely catered toward seniors.
