v/ interesting class, but be willing to put in effort
A lot of reading but WORTH IT. Please do all of it. You'll get so much out of the course if you do all the readins cuz they're great. But don't be mistaken, it is a lot so only take it if you know you'll have time to dedicate to it. It's not worth it to half-butt it. And if you do half-butt it, you'll look like fool in discussion and it'll bite you in the but come midterms and finals cuz they test you on ALL the readings but if you do the readings you're straight
great class. Interesting material.
This class is a lot of work, but overall it's fantastic!
This course covers extremely interesting and important topics; however, students must be prepared to read and write A LOT (I read about a book a week and wrote about 65 pages for this course this semester). The class was small and seminar-style this year which was great and really allowed for engaging in discussion with the teaching staff and fellow students. Worth taking if you're willing/able to invest a lot of time!
This course will expose you to a lot of great material. If you read the books and pay attention in class, you'll learn how to talk about race and ethnicity in intelligent, useful ways. You'll think more clearly and systematically about everything from your daily interactions and off-hand remarks to public policy and social inequalities. Bobo is great, and the class discussions are among the best I've ever had. This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, and you should take it, too.
This class will give a lot of information for people interested in the course.  However, there definitely is a lot of reading and writing involved, with weekly response papers that will be graded difficultly and a large amount of weekly reading.  While you will learn a lot, it is also important to prepare yourself for that amount of work.
This is a pretty heavy class, lots of reading and you actually have to do it in order to do well in the response essays. Professor Bobo is great but doesn't always connect everything together (what he lectures to the readings). The subject matter is so interesting, I wanted to take a class on race relations at some point and this did the job pretty well but was a bit heavy-handed without being worth it every time, so sometimes I found myself dedicating more time to it than I wanted to. That said, I'm not concentrating in sociology, so I imagine it would make the most sense to take this class if you're already doing sociology (having at least a little background in reading/writing about sociological research is helpful).
Very interesting, doesn't take up an inordinate amount of time and provides contact with Professor Bobo.
It is a lot of work, but it is worth it.
The class is a lot of work. The readings can be a lot and also very dense. Plus, you have to do weekly response papers and both the midterms and finals require a lot of writing. That being said the actual material you learn is very pertinent to our nation's current state of inequality. It makes you very aware of how far we have to go in terms of race and how racial disparity is still very prevalent. Very eye opening class, and leaves you with an uneasy feeling of whether things can actually get better.
Moderate amount of work to be completed weekly, but the the work is quite enjoyable. Take the class with some friends; I really enjoyed talking about lecture with my friends outside of class.
Everyone should take this class! It's a great intro course to the study of race and ethnic relations, and Prof Bobo is hilarious! The lectures are interesting, but the reading can be dry and repetitive at times. Also, there is a CRAZY amount of writing: 1-3 page response papers every week, an 18-page midterm, and a 25-page take-home final. So yeah, it's definitely not an "easy elective", but worth taking.
This course will open your mind to the world around you.
Eye-opening
This class was really good looking back. Professor Bobo was really a great lecturer, and his laugh is contagious! Very enthusiastic teacher, who is very enthusiastic about the subject matter! While you are enrolled in it, the short papers each week may seem a bit annoying, but by the end you realize how much you really learned and how applicable the material is to everyday life. but WATCH OUT in your scheduling...I was unaware that this class had an 18 page midterm (three 6-page answers), and while the questions were doable, I was totally unprepared time management wise.
The class in and of itself is not hard. It is just time consuming because of the reading involved BUT DO THE READING! Not because you will fall hopelessly behind for the exams or because you wouldn't be able to write good response paper but because those readings are GREAT! They educate you as to  what's really going on in our society. You will not regret doing the ridiculous amount of reading each week. You're going to hate it at the moment but when you look back you'll realize the very intelligent conversations you will be able to have in the future. Take advantage and get to know Professor Bobo! He's super awesome and has so much knowledge to bestow upon you! This class actually made me switch form Psychology to Sociology so there. Take it.
If you are prepared for the large workload, this class is worthwhile.
This class teaches you a lot. Without a doubt, it makes you see race and ethnic relations in a different light. You will definitely learn much about this topic from a professor who's extremely qualified and an expert in the field. With that being said, it would probably benefit you to have taken some prior class in Sociology.
This class gives you the opportunity to think about race in terms of social theory and statistics. Coming from a WGS background, it was great to get a less theoretical and more historical and scientific approach to the issue of race. Great class - take it.
Don't expect to get a new perspective on race relations in America. I don't feel like I left the class with anything new. Having a response paper due every week is manageable but gets old fast. There aren't many grades in the class. There is a fair amount of reading but since you have a week to do it I think it is manageable.
lot more writing than i expected (2-3 page weekly response papers, 18 page midterm, 25 page final) but worth it if you are interested in getting a very thorough overview of the state of race and ethnic relations in the United States. Professor Bobo is truly wonderful (he has the best laugh) and a very knowledgeable academic in his field so he is a great guide for the class. the readings are very focused and very interesting so you will get a lot out of them. but the lectures and student presentations every week may seems a little repetitive.
A ton of reading and weekly papers. A lot of emphasis on black inequality, and harsh grading.
Its really tough work.
Be prepared to do a lot more writing than you thought you would.
Although this class has incredibly interesting subject material, the lectures are incredibly dry and the assignments are abstract and border on tedium.
Class may differ with different professor
Stay on top of the reading.  The response papers are graded harshly.  Also, plan for reading these
There is a lot of reading and the weekly reaction papers can be annoying. The exams are long and the class doesn't exactly prepare you for them.
Don't take this class if you don't fully believe the firmly established "sociological fact" that "race is dead". A lot of the class deals with the notion of post-racialism (as opposed to post-racism) which could give you headache if you're not from a sociological background. Having said this Professor Bobo is a very good lecturer, and his published work is excellent.
This class is much more difficult than you would first assume but it is totally worthwhile.
This course covers a lot of interesting racial issues.  There is a ton of reading that is due every week - and that can be overwhelming, but if you are genuinely interested in the problems you will genuinely want to read the readings.
Easy class, but valuable if you make it
A really fun, great class that challenges you and lets you meet some awesome people.
This is truly a wonderful class. If you engage with it properly, it will give you a lot. Dr Hannah and Mazen were a great team - they worked very hard to keep us enthusiastic and genuinely engage us. I never felt patronised yet we were always presented the ideas at the right level. If you are interested in understanding the notion of race relations in America or, more generally, some of the biggest issues facing American society this is the course for you. I am not sure it is yet at 'life changing' status - mainly for factors of presentation which, given that it was Dr Hannah's first course, were very small. Dr Hannah will definitely get more confident and clear as a lecturer and will definitely be able to spread the passion and enthusiasm that underpins his desire to teach the course. It is a very supportive course too - there are a lot of opportunities to grow, to develop an understanding of some of the most important that an educated person should know about and it also raises very important philosophical questions about how we understand race and how we should handle race relations.
There's a lot of writing in the course, but the material is very interesting and the discussion is the highlight of the course.
The workload is minimal and involves readings and some writings. It's a very interesting and thought-provoking course.
Lots of interesting readings and discussions surrounding the topic of race.
This class is a wonderful space to talk about and reflect on race and ethnic relations, and to share your experiences.  You learn a lot about the status of race in this country.  There is a great mix of people that have different perspectives and that you can learn from.
Dr. Hannah and Mazen are awesome. They know the material extremely well and do a great job of facilitating conversation. They are also very understanding and accommodating to people's needs for extensions.
This is a great class to learn about a very important issue that tends to be avoided in conversations nowadays. It helps build confidence in what you're talking about and really does a great job of overviewing race relations today.
This class is definitely worth taking. I couldn't imagine a more relevant subject matter in our day and age and Section and Lecture are both very mind captivating. Moreover, the work isn't too difficult and Professor Hannah and Mazan take their time to make sure you have a firm grasp of the subject material.
This class was the most enjoyable class I have taken at Harvard. Hands down. You are able to draw from your own personal experiences to help you understand the course.
The weekly response essays are a breeze to write due to the breadth of material presented in the readings. This class was disorganized and required a lot of self-motivation to remain engaged with the class. Lectures added little to my understanding of the readings. You are better off talking about this with the professor at office hours or with other classmates or friends. A great course, I just wish lectures focused less on summarizing readings and more on incorporating student discussion.
