This class is pretty interesting- the readings are great. However, the lectures are quite long... Professor Lamont does not use any visual references, and her lectures seem to not have much direction. Professor Hall has great presentations, but gets really flustered when we ask him questions? Section was awesome. Love Ryann!! If this class was offered without a section, I probably would not have taken it.
The course brings up many interesting ideas about societal success and tries to bring together several different perspectives. Unfortunately, the various topics covered in the course are covered in little depth and are poorly integrated. I would suggest looking for other courses that cover in depth the topics you are most interested in.
This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Only take it if you are truly interested in the material because the readings will greatly improve your experience in the class, even though they are not required. This gives you a "cataglogue" of information about ways of measuring successful societies, so it is a great overview. Professor Lamont's lectures are painful, but Professor Hall's lectures more than make up for it.
The course's material is interesting and section is great, but lecture can be quite boring at times. Professor Hall is a great lecturer but Professor Lamont's lectures are long and don't have a clear outline. They also struggle to tie in to the "week's theme."
This is a very interesting class.  Some weeks are more interesting than others, but overall a unique way to think about societal development.  Take it is the material is interesting to you!
This class is a great one for the same reason that it sucks: it tackles huge, extremely important questions in a very limited amount of time and detail. On the one hand, that can be frustrating because you don't dig in as much as you might want; on the other, the questions are rarely discussed in other places and are made very applicable to policy and concrete situations. I'd definitely take it again.
Its a great course for learning about sociology in an interesting context
Excellent framework for those interested in what a successful society looks like
Take it, excellent toolkit
