This is an amazing class. Professor Patterson is an exceptional teacher with great enthusiasm for his students and great depth of knowledge. It was both a fortune and a pleasure to take this class with him. The teaching fellow, Jeff Denis, was well chosen as he was a great resource and guide during an otherwise intensive research process.
I would tell them in advance that they are expected to complete a qualitative project during the semester so that they can think of project ideas prior to beginning the course.
Feedback can be improved, and the readings can be cut.
More work than my other classes this semester combined
If students are interested in qualitative research involving ethnography, participant observation, or interviews this class is certainly useful. However, other forms of qualitative research are not given much attention.
I'd tell them that the amount of reading is crazy and the assignments are very hard to keep up with--but you've gotta take the class anyway, so good luck!
It is a lot of work, but I did find it helpful.
Make sure you carve out time for the final project. The project is a great experience, but it's very time consuming.
This is a good starting course for your research.
This is a helpful class for anyone interested in pursuing quantitative analysis. The workload is very demanding, but by the end of the course you will develop a draft of a paper and make headway on your areas of interest.
Sociology is a big place!
It is important to hit the ground running with a research question for your project. It is also a good idea to have a back-up question in case interviews for the first question don't work out.
It's good because it forces you to figure out how to put together an interview project, but be prepared to figure out what you're doing mostly on your own
I would tell students to not freak out too much about finding exactly the right research project. It's not like you're picking a dissertation topic. I would also tell them to read Chapters 4 and 5 of Jane Addams' "Twenty Years at Hull House" and encourage them to avoid what Addams calls "the snare of preparation." This might actually be a great addition to the syllabus:http://digital.library.upenn.edu/women/addams/hullhouse/hullhouse.html
With the workload as it currently stands, the course is like two courses combined into one--a reading course and a project. I don't recommend taking a heavy load the semester you take this course. Qualitative methods seem simple but they are not--to do high-quality qualitative work is difficult. So pay attention and take it seriously. Orlando is a good teacher and has thought very carefully about the course material. Start your project work early!
Great class but important to start thinking early on about your research project.
This class requires A LOT of time, and the readings are not helpful. Don't expect to learn anything about how to conduct qualitative research except through trial and error in the required final project.
The course is required, so students must take it. But I would advise them that if they want to learn qualitative methods and practice, they probably should not expect that from this course. They should expect a course that covers more the theories and approaches to qualitative research instead of the nuts and bolts of what's good research and what's bad research.
A good overview of qualitative sociology but not very rigorous in any one aspect of it. A good introduction to qualitative sociology that opens the door to further training in qualitative methods.
Be prepared to do a lot of work, but it will be worth it.
Just go with the flow. It hurts in the beginning but eventually (hopefully) you'll see that it's worth it. Also, be open to changing topics.
This class will change the way you think about research; the process will be painful but the result will be worthwhile.
Think seriously about balancing the feasibility of your project as well as your interests
This is extremely challenging and work-intensive class, but it's worth it for what you get out of it in applicable skills.
Make sure to select a topic you would be excited to pursue beyond the class. Start interviews as early as possible, and select a research site that is not difficult to gain access to.
The course definitely forces you to turn from a consumer to a producer of knowledge, which is extremely valuable both professionally and psychologically as a scholar.
This is a class largely skewed towards the interests of the instructor. If you find those interesting as well, then you will enjoy the class. If you don't, it will be unpleasant at times.Also: there is no reason that we needed to meet for three hours every week, and for four hours in the last two. I did not learn more in this class than in my others that met for less time, which I think indicates that our in class time could have been used more effectively.
It was surpringly good.
Mario is amazing but the class will really challenge you. Don't worry too much about producing a perfect paper - the point of this class is really to work through major issues in the field, and then try and see these problems in action by conducting original research. If you can figure out how to take the pressure off, the class becomes a lot more fun.
This course is a lot of work, but it's completely worth it. Push yourself to engage deeply with the readings and assignments.
to get the most out of this class, you have to be prepared to put a lot of time into it.
The opportunity to dig into qualitative work meaningfully, with close direction, and without the necessary  expectation for publication.
