I cannot recommend this course highly enough. I think it may the best course I've ever taken at Harvard. The workload is more than doable, expectations for assignments are clear, and the lectures and readings are uniformly fascinating.  Professor Chang is very funny and witty, passionate about the subject material, and really cares about his students. If you are debating between taking this or another Korea-related class, TAKE THIS CLASS. You will come out with a great grasp of the changes that modern Korean society has undergone over the past hundred years, and a better idea of where Korea headed. This course reinforced my decision to go into Korean studies after graduation; maybe it will change your life like it changed mine.
The organization of the class could use a little fixing.
Incredible class - one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Lectures are engaging, the exams and the paper are actually quite fun, and the history/social changes of South Korea are fascinating themselves. Prof Chang is fantastic teacher who is accessible, knowledgeable and truly cares about his students.
If you have any interest in Korea, this is a great class to take. The normal workload is just readings and the lectures are very engaging.
Professor Chang is an amazing professor who truly cares about students learning and delving into the material. He truly made this class an open learning environment and brought much of his experience into it which always makes it relevant and important material. The class itself is very useful and provides historical context to better understand the social changes that have happened. It was a very positive learning experience!
Professor Chang is a great lecturer! If you want an overview of Korean history with a focus on understanding the developments that have contributed to the making of Korea as it is today, it's a great class.
this is a wonderful class! Professor Chang is an awesome professor and an engaging lecturer. This was the first class I've ever taken on Asian history/Korea itself, and I was fascinated by what I learned in every single lecture. It's also has a relatively light workload so it's the perfect class to take if you need to balance out your schedule w/ a class in which you can just listen, learn, and appreciate the material :)
This is a great class, definitely take it if you want to have a good introduction to Korean history.
I took this class because two of my friends had taken it previously and both said Paul was super chill and a great professor. Definitely glad I took it! They were right, he's a great lecturer that cares about the material and getting students interested in the material. I think he also just relates well with students. The course is well structured and doesn't ask too much from you outside of class, except for the final essay. Even then I ended up writing more than I expected, and I attribute that to Prof. Chang giving useful feedback early on and respect for his class. For my first sociology class, this was great!
This is an excellent course for an overview of Korean history.  This is great if you want a refresher or general information, but it's not the course for you if you want details.
Even if you don't know much about South Korea, the material learned in this course is fascinating and will help you think about social change on a national scale. The course material provided a solid, historical foundation as well as sociological framework prior to diving into some of the social changes explored in the material such that prior knowledge is not necessary so do not be intimidated. Especially when many of the courses in the Sociology department seem to focus on wider notions of inequality across large, diverse populations, this course is a refreshing take on applying sociological framework to a more narrow focus field. Professor Chang is a lively, passionate lecturer and makes you feel invested in the course material. None of the readings or coursework felt like 'busy work' or unnecessary; every hour you put into this course is for your own benefit and does not feel like wasted time.
Read the wonderful resources that Paul has assigned for the class...and then some. It's amazing how many different voices Paul makes sure to incorporate in understanding Korean society.
The course is a fantastic overview of Korea from the late 1800s to the present. Professor Chang is a great lecturer, extremely knowledgeable, and very engaged with his students. The course does a great job of providing historical context. However, because of the wide scope of the course, some topics are not covered in much depth. The course doesn't include much theoretical content or cross-national comparisons, so the content is not immediately useful beyond Korea. However, Korea's history and modern experience is so interesting and often unique that I found much of the course to increase my understanding of other countries as well. Overall, the course provides a great overview of a fascinating country.
Professor Chang brings a rare and refreshing perspective on modern Korea and social change that I think students will enjoy. He provides strong feedback on assignments and cares about the progress of students. What was most fascinating about the course material was its expansiveness as we touched not only the political and economic aspects of Korean history and contemporary culture, but also critical issues of social change from the family to religion and gender.
For anyone who is interested in Korean culture and history, this class is great. The content is very extensive and you end up learning a lot about Korea within just a few weeks. And everything you learn is very interesting and by the end of the course you feel you have a good grasp on Korean culture, history, and its sociological issues. Also, Professor Chang is a big reason why this class is great. He's a great lecturer, genuinely passionate about the content, and a real chill dude. He's very down-to-earth and makes the class really enjoyable. Great class.
If you are interested in taking a relatively relaxed class to learn about an overview of South Korean history and modern social change, this is your class. The professor is cool and engaging and very helpful. If you are not a humanities/social sciences person, don't worry because the professor can help you a lot. But remember that there is a 20-30 page paper at the end of the course.
This is an awesome course! Professor Chang is a great lecturer and just a really nice guy, very chill. Definitely take this course if you're interested in learning about Korea!The work load is very reasonable as is the mditerm and final.
This class is wonderful. Paul is an incredible lecturer who will keep you engaged and interested in Korean history. You learn a whole lot in one semester.
Professor Chang is one of the best professors that I've had at Harvard; his passion for the subject material is evident and it's clear that he genuinely cares about his students. I took this class as an elective, but it ended up being my favorite of the semester! If you have any interest at all in Korea and the social changes that it's undergone in the past century, I would wholeheartedly recommend taking this class.
If you are remotely interested in Korea without any background knowledge on its history or culture, TAKE THIS CLASS. Professor Chang's teaching is not only engaging and compelling, but will give you a narrative of Korea from its beginnings to its place in contemporary times now. Take this class; you won't regret it.
This class is incredible! Professor Chang is awesome and his lectures are very engaging. Make sure to get a head start on the final paper though, because trust me it will pop up out of nowhere.
Take his course and you won't regret it. Paul Chang has had a much larger impact on my education than he knows. This course is a hidden gem. Paul Chang alone makes this class worth taking.
No previous background in Korea necessary. Loved the course even knowing nothing about Korea prior to taking the course!
A good introduction to Modern Korean society - less so Modern Korean History - kind of slow and not packed with content. If it will frustrate you to not be learning as much as you could be, don't take this. If that's you kind of thing, though - this is the right place for you.
Difficult and quite a bit of work, but a really fascinating subject taught by a very, very good professor. If you are even a little bit interested in Korea, this course is well worth the time!
