This course is difficult, but very rewarding. Classical theory is not easy to read or get through, but it is definitely worth it. Matt really cares about class and making sure we all understand what we're reading.
Great class. Don't be afraid of the tests but do all of the readings incredibly closely and take careful, detailed, and long notes. Also try talking about the authors as much as possible and try to relate them to your daily lives/other experiences in sociology.
You have to take it, so make the best of it.
This class is not a 'typical' classical theory course - it deals with a problem of social order and social change and is directed toward a particular vision of them. It's a good way of learning how sociologists develop and articulate theories, but at the same time, be aware of that the ideas commonly discussed in this class are not generally accepted by all the sociologists even in the department.
n/a
Make sure to keep up with the reading list and diligently take notes on Adam's lectures.
The course has a heavy religion focus and some background in classical theory is probably required, but the professor is an extremely thoughtful and engaged theorist who cares not only about classic ideas but how they relate to the world today, and he encourages his students to grapple with these ideas as well.
Take careful class notes and outline the readings; this will help with the final exam.
It's interesting, but it feels like more of a sociology of religion class than a classical soc theory class
Don't expect too much clarity to emerge from class.
Adam is a wonderful instructor. You'll learn a lot.
This was a fantastic class.  It is brilliantly taught and highly engaging.  Adam is a born lecturer, articulating clearly the lessons of classical social theory with contemporary examples.  He engages the class very well by bringing us into the discussion, constantly referring back to comments that we made earlier.Unless you have zero interest in social theory, I fully recommend this class.
Don't think critically, just regurgitate and you will be fine. Also, don't spend too much time wondering whether and how each topic prepares you to engage with sociologists who draw from classical theory.
Students vary in how much they enjoy this course. I heard the previous cohort absolutely loved the class. Our was less keen.
The readings are difficult and sometimes it is difficult to link them to current affairs and social processes. However the class provides an excellent overview of the fundamental questions, concerns, and contributions of modern sociology to contemporary sociology.
Prof Seligman is a critical thinker whose lecture style is very engaging (one certainly can't fall asleep in his class!).  The readings covered a wide-range of classic sociology text, and connected by the thread of social order.  The reading load is heavy and a precis is due every week.  The biggest disadvantage of this course is that there was little opportunity for discussion (even though it is PhD level with a small number of students seated around a table).  One learns a lot though, and I looked forward to the class each week.
Adam made the course material interesting.
be open to many logics and theories.
This is an engaging, challenging, and fun class.  As a professional sociologist, depending on your focus, you may never again have the chance to engage so closely with the founding thinkers and fundamental ideas that underpin the sociological enterprise - so grab the chance now.
The professor is a very serious and careful thinker and, almost of equal importance, he is engaging and hilarious.
Adam is an engaging lecturer who is clearly excited about teaching and classical theory. He organized one of the most difficult courses to teach in a creative, sensible way (around the concept of "social order"). He was always willing to stay after class to discuss ideas with students and his enthusiasm is infectious. I highly recommend his course.
It is a great, non-threatening course on classical theory where you can expect to learn enough to feel competent in theory debates, but where you will not be expected to become the next Marx or Weber (this, in my opinion, is a good thing).
