Excellent instructor; great readings.
It is great to discover the basics of econ-soc
I would recommend this course with reservations. Because economic sociology is such a vast field, it is likely that the course taker would have to read materials which is not really her substantive interests. But I would recommend it if my peer is interested in learning traditional concepts frequently used in sociology.
It is a very informative course and good introduction to economic sociology.
Great course, especially if you can combine it with your research focus.
This is a great course to learn the foundations of economic sociology. Professor Dobbin is very engaging and sets a wonderful tone for the class. I recommend it with enthusiasm!
The more work you do to synthesize the readings yourself, rather than rely on class discussion alone, the more you'll get out of the class. Also, try to start thinking about how to incorporate class readings into your final research proposal assignment early on.
Great class. Youll learn a lot from Franks expertise, his introductory comments, and his selection of readings.
Probably one of the BEST if not the VERY BEST course I have taken at Harvard. I rave about this course to other students/profs. Frank is an amazing teacher and this is reflected by how he runs the course, the readings he choose, his comments, how he sets up each week's discussion (and not to mention all the nice snacks and beverages he brings in for us all the time!) Frank is such a genius, smart, caring, and good at teaching professor. This is such a rare treat to have Frank as a prof!
great introduction to the field and professor; very congenial atmosphere!
A good opportunity to understand the relationships between economics and sociology
It is a great class that pushes me to think more deeply about both the economic and sociological approaches.  Dr Filiz Garip is an excellent instructor.
This class is geared more toward graduate students than undergraduates.
A model of how a seminar-style class should be. Should remain limited to graduate students only.
The class discussion is very driven by students. I think the quality of this class will depend on the other students in it.
I would venture to argue that most of the literature covered in this course should be required reading for someone pursuing social science at the graduate level.
If you are interested in learning about economic sociology in a fair, unbiased way and you would like an involved professor, this is the class for you.
Good introduction to a fascinating field.
Good exposure to both economic sociology and economics. Focuses heavily on developments in the last two decades. Focus on breadth, not depth in readings.
If you're interested in the material but have little experience with it, then it's a fun way of introducing yourself to the material and getting different viewpoints on the subject. However, if you're really busy with other things, it can be a little annoying to have to read 5-8 papers a week (some of which might not be directly related to your research).
Filiz is a fantastic teacher, readings and topics are great. Highly recommended.
