Intellectually provocative class that will keep you on your toes.
This class confirmed my desire to delve into immigration law because the professor eloquently presented topics that are difficult to understand. He is a funny lecturer who expects questions from his students and who is willing to be a life mentor. Also, he loves inviting guest speakers to the class, and he doesn't bring any small characters. We had Dalton McGuinty, Antonio Villaraigoza, and other prominent figures.
This course offers a nice overview of major debates and theories regarding migration. Prof. Gest is very accessible and encouraging, and you do the bulk of your learning in lecture. It helps to have some interest in immigration going into the class, since the final paper will be entirely self-directed. Also, the sociology content is pretty limited in this course, but you are able to explore more sociological topics and approaches in your final paper if you choose.
This is a very worthwhile course to take! Professor Gest is awesome, super digestible lectures, very useful information/grounding/foundation if you're at all interested in issues related to immigration. A bit theory heavy in the beginning, but it's all still really easy to understand if you go to lecture.
This is an excellent class!  The work load is not too heavy and the course is super interesting.  Dr. Gest is a great teacher--he connects very well with the students and lectures with enthusiasm.  Class is always engaging.  The course covers almost everything regarding immigration, and I have come away from it with a good understanding both of immigration law and of the social aspects having to do with immigration.  Definitely take this class!!
Professor Gest is engaging and makes this important topic come alive. I found the majority of readings dull. Especially considering this is a sociology course, I learned very little about the sociological experience of immigration. The course was heavy on legal and policy issues. I enjoyed the material covered, and I learned a lot, but I wouldn't recommend the course if you're interested in strictly sociology. The guests we heard from were incredible (if too high profile) -- we chatted with Dalton McGuinty and Hilda Solis and Antonio Villargosa. They had interesting perspectives to share, but were all a little political for my liking. Nonetheless, awesome opportunity to pick their brains. Professor Gest seemed inaccessible to me, rarely engaged when I emailed him a question or wanted to talk about my paper topics. Juliet was great, though.  Extremely responsive and helpful.
This is a great class.  Professor Gest is extremely engaging and dynamic - I was never bored in lecture.  Highly recommended!
This class is really informative. Gest is also an incredibly dedicated and passionate teacher who tries his best to learn everyone's name in the class. He really does care about the subject material and his students. This alone makes the course worth taking.
Great introduction to political and sociological debates about immigration today. Prof. Gest is a great lecturer, with clear and interesting lectures.
If you feel frustrated by the highly emotional and politicized discussions of immigration in the media and you want to know what's really going on, take this class. If you think you understand the current global state of immigration but are interested in studying the impacts of immigration on identity, social integration, and the lives of immigrants, you should definitely take this class, too. Justin is a phenomenal teacher and I found myself wanting the lectures, at one and a half hours long, to be even longer as he made them really interesting but also engaging and entertaining. The papers require you to be fairly self-directed, but that shouldn't be hard given the abundance of interesting material in this course. Take it!!! (also, if you are bummed that you didn't get into his Politics of Immigration government seminar, take this instead - it is essentially the same course)
Great class!  Really interesting material and lectures were really enjoyable.   I really learned a lot.
This is a great class and Professor Gest is a fantastic lecturer. The material is fascinating and relevant to current events. It has helped me to really understand the social and political factors impacting immigration. The workload is relatively light but you engage in critical and enlightening discussions during the course. The final paper is long but if you choose a topic that is interesting to you, it will be rewarding.
Great material, harsh and unclear grading
I would definitely recommend taking this course! This class approaches the broad and comprehensive topic of immigration and looks at it from distinct vantage points. Professor Gest is incredibly approachable and believes that everyone has something important to contribute. Definitely take this course!!
Very clear and super-interesting introduction to the important topic of immigration. Justin delivers engaging lectures with substantial interaction. Readings can be dense but is a thorough reading is not necessary for class, useful to skim as background. Many interesting special guest speakers! Overall great course and I highly recommend- you will learn a lot in a unique way and have fun.
Lectures are engaging and enjoyable. Professor Gest is an excellent lecturer. Some moments you will be laughing, and others you will be pushed to give serious thoughts about complicated real world issues. Definitely take this class.
Take this class. It is a great introduction to the study of immigration.
This class is a little bit of a misnomer, while it does deal with sociological studies, a great deal of the course is spent on politics and government. So if you're really into government and politics within a sociological framework, this course would be just your cup of tea.
This class is a great mix of the personal attention and discussion of a seminar and the occasionally forgiving anonymity of a lecture. Professor Gest is an engaging, enthusiastic lecture and frequently involves the class in discussions and small group activities. At the same time, the class is also big enough that you can easily float under the radar if you have a busy week and don't have the mental energy to give it your all.
This class was great! It teaches about many facets of immigration around the world, which I found very interesting
If you're gov or sociology, this class is an ERTTI (every reason to take it) class.
The class is excellent in giving you a theoretical overview of immigration, in general. Don't take it expecting to learn solely about immigration in the United States. Professor Gest's lectures are well organized but can also be overwhelming. The final paper also was too ambiguous and unstructured. We basically got no direction in how to go about it. Also, Professor Gest wants to come of as a helpful mentor figure, but it came of as condescending at times.
Take this class!  The material is fascinating, relevant, and very well taught.  Professor Gest is a great lecturer and takes a genuine interest in his students.  The workload is really manageable, even if taken as an elective along with other courses.  My only advice would be to start the final paper early--it's lengthy and research-heavy but easy to handle with enough of a head start.
Truly a great class! Great lecturer and very interactive!
This class takes a broad topic and looks at it from a variety of fascinating angles. The professor has a lot of experience with the subject matter and his engaging style of teaching will allow you to come out with a firm understanding of a controversial, pertinent subject. The professor really cares for his students and has a gift for building lasting and meaningful relationships. He provides a great learning environment and really allows his students to pursue information that interests them. I have learned so much about myself and improved so much as a student with the help of Professor Gest. I highly recommend taking a class with him. If you have a lot of knowledge or experience with the topic of immigration, this class might seem a little slow at times. But, for the most part, I still definitely recommend it if you are interested in learning about immigration! The workload is fair and you will get as much from the course that you give.
Take it if you're willing to do the readings.  Professor Gest is amazing and really cares about the subject matter and his students... thus you should care about this class to do well.
If Justin is still teaching this course, take it! He is an enthusiastic professor and always willing to talk/give you advice outside of class. This semester the class was pretty small, so I can't say for future semesters, but for us the class really became a community due to frequent optional class dinners and a class email list. I was very happy that I took this course.
this is a great course with an amazing teacher. If you want to understand the debate around immigration, take this course.
Week-to-week workload was very, very light--the essays were a bit more involved, but Gest helps you along. The material is relevant and important to be familiar with, but it can get tedious at times because there's so much nomenclature/legal terminology involved. Really really light.
Great class! It's a lot of writing and a fair bit of writing, but I definitely thought it was worth it.
This class will teach you a lot about the world and its history. We don't realize how vital and important immigration has been in shaping world history. It's also incredibly relevant to the modern world and would help anyone gain a deeper understanding of what is going on.
Take this course. I can't say that with enough emphasis. Professor Bueker is just amazing. She's so genuinely passionate about what she's learning that you can't help but feed off of her excitement. Honestly, sometimes I forgot this was a class it was so interesting. I enjoyed the final, like I had fun. How many classes can you say that about? It's an important class just to be a more informed citizen of the world, and Professor Bueker does a great job of educating you as a person and not just treating you like a student. Take.This.Class.
This is a great class to learn about how immigration in theory and practice has changed over time. Heavy emphasis on US immigration. The assignments are very informative and enjoyable!
Great class and elective for a difficult semester. Lots of writing, but was graded generously. Also lots of reading, but not very much is tested.
This class was substantively fascinating for someone who does not know a ton about immigration and it's also a small, supportive, and fun environment. Professor Bueker also makes a great effort to get to know each student and is clearly very engaged and committed to the class.
A lot of writing! There's also a strong reading component that makes it a bit hard to keep up with reading and papers.
The material is interesting and pretty easy to grasp, but the level expected for the assignments is high.
