I don't think i can put into words how much i enjoyed this class, i looked forward to our meeting every week. Matt is incredible, take every class you can with him, he has a genuine enthusiasm not only about the topics being discusses but in each of the students. if you are interested at al in art, culture, and boston, i Highly recommend this class
This class was an unexpectedly enjoyable junior tutorial thanks to Professor Kaliner's flexible approach to discussion and assignments. He tailored the class to our interests, and allowed the readings to reflect these changes. The assignments are interview and research based, and the feedback on drafts really helps. A painless way to
Really fun junior tutorial. You'll learn a lot with out being super stressed. Matt is the most accessible professor ever and will help you make the most out of the class. The class can sometimes be a bit unorganized so if you are someone who demands a lot of structure this might not be the class for you
I'd recommend it based off Matt's enthusiasm for the subject! For some reason when I filled out my junior tutorial rankings I thought that the title of the class was using "urban" as code word for "black" so I was taking it thinking we'd be looking at culture of the African diaspora or something. It's not about that at all haha it's about urban as in cities and arts as in museums and culture and nightlife as in clubbing. Still interesting!
Dear everyone,

If you do not know Matt Kaliner, then you are missing out on an amazing professor, course, and hilarious office hours.  Honestly, look him up right now. Realize that he is the BEST. Send him an email just saying that you saw his Arts, Culture, and Urban Neighborhoods course and that you want to hear more about it. I am sure that his response will make you smile, laugh, and want to take the tutorial.  Okay, but beyond just the course instructor (which is A VERY IMPORTANT COMPONENT OF A STRONG COURSE), the course material + assignments were super cool.  For one of the assignments, all of the class went to an art crawl in SoWa Boston. Who even knew there was a SoWa part of Boston? I've lived here for years and I learned so many new things about Boston. For another assignment, you interview a local musician. IN WHAT OTHER CLASS WOULD YOU BE ABLE TO INTERVIEW COOL AF MUSICIANS? 

Please, my fingers are tired. Just take this class and you'll never regret it. Believe me. I used to hate classes. And then 98ka happened!!! :) #blessed

Sincerely,
me
Professor Kaliner is very deeply interested in the arts and it shows in the way he approaches his course. Students are invited to bring their own experiences to the table and he is very willing to incorporate student experiences and opinions into the course as it evolves. I doubt that any two semesters of this course are experienced the same way, and that's a very good thing.
EASILY THE BEST TUTORIAL TAKE IT. Matt is WONDERFUL. He works with the class to create assignments that are interesting for each student. He will take the time to work with you on all papers and assignments, and is very easy to talk to and always happy to help.
Even though the course is titled Urban Neighborhoods, its not really about urban sociology or poverty or anything like that. Its more about the arts
Great course if you are interested in the subject matter. Do the readings it makes class more interesting and worthwhile. The assignments can be a bit of guess work because they are so flexible and ambiguous. Matt is a great teacher, very considerate and caring of the student's not only academic life but also personal life. I would take the course just to be in the same classroom with him again. Great guy!
Definitely take this class!
