You should absolutely take this class if you want to understand inequality in general. Absolutely essential.
I thought this course would be mostly social media, but it wasn't what I thought it was. I was little disappointed.
I absolutely loved this class! The subject material was so interesting and relevant to my own life that I just loved going to class and participating in discussions, which were always great in both section and lecture. Julia, the TF, is also just a genius and therefore really enjoyable to talk with in office hours. The workload is not bad at all and I'm happy I took this course as an elective. All of the readings are online, so you don't have to pay for textbooks. Lecture attendance is mandatory though, so don't skip!
This course was extremely disappointing. Lectures were extremely dry. The content had a lot of potential to be interesting but was delivered in an boring and often biased format during lectures. Did not learn very much from sections. While TF Julia was knowledgeable, she did not allow for very much discussion and rather spoke about her own opinions most of the time. The course was extremely disorganized and the syllabus (readings, assignments, due dates) were changed multiple times throughout the semester, which made it unnecessarily difficult and sometimes confusing to keep up with what we needed to do.
Wonderful class. Super interesting!
This is a lighter courseload class
This is a great class that makes you analyze what the role of everyday social media use is in our society and how it contributes to structures of inequality. Great readings and discussions. Would definitely recommend everyone to take.
its great and flexible
Important concept for a class, but the class needs to be refined. Biased and often irrelevant material that misses the mark and focuses on leftist issues instead of real social media sociology theory.
fun and interesting class
Incredible and engaging class that deals with such an important part of our modern world
This course is very interesting and has subject material that is modern and relevant.  However, some weeks may feel less relevant than others and I would pay close attention to the syllabus to make sure that the readings truly interest you before taking the course.
The opinions of the students / professor lean FAR right, and even though I am liberal I felt this
Keri Luis is a really kind and fun person to take a course with - this course was incredibly well thought-out and easy to navigate. It is great for thinking critically about gender, sexuality, race in media.
Biased look at gender and inequality in media
Because this subject is extremely relevant in today's world and with this generation, it's very applicable to people's lives. Also, Professor Luis is the best.
Good course. Very applicable to real life. Made me examine my own social media use.
