Read and prepare for the cases; speak up during class!
Best class I've taken at Harvard!
Classes such as these should be considered mandatory. Definitely one of my favorite Harvard experiences.
Terrific course with an incredibly enthusiastic professor. Don't expect a *light* course, however - be prepared to put in significant work, especially on the final project. And a great way to increase your public speaking abilities.
Best course at Harvard. Will change your life.
I would recommend this course to students because of its esteemed, excited, outgoing professor and interesting subject material, but caution students that they should wait until junior or senior year to take it - when they are more confident to engage in class, may know more about business solutions, and may benefit more, being closer to starting endeavors of their own. Because this course relied far too heavily on outside experience and connection with the professor to participate, students should wait and take it probably as a senior. Case studies are interesting and a new way to learn material in a relevant, contemporary way, but so many details about businesses' initial endeavors (funding, costs) are left undiscussed and are necessary for assignments that students should either be prepared to know this or meet frequently with professor/tf to understand it. Be prepared to speak out in class and assert yourself, which will be easier when you're older and have a better hold on the classroom. My expectations were too high so I came away disappointed by the assignments and deterred by the focus on participation, but you will learn interesting information about startups and hear really cool speakers talk about their endeavors. You'll come away with some real-world knowledge, though you might still not really know how to make a plan for financials to come up with something on your own (or for the papers you have to write). Get lots of help for the final project and assignments because you need to know more than is detailed in class discussions. But if you're business-minded and can speak up, this class provides interesting businesses to think about and provides a group project which is a good experience. Also there's an oral exam at the end so know your stuff for your project!
AMAZING course to get your feet wet in social entrepreneurship. Applicable for anyone who wants to make social change and wants to learn from strong examples. Great discussions on strategy, financing, and growth of social enterprises, with a good business focus.
Take this course!  It is an incredible class that will inspire you and change the way you think of the world.  Prof. Ager is the class's biggest strength, as he takes a personal interest in all of his students (in a class of 60+, will call on you by name).  The case study method is awesome and studying how different people used social entrepreneurship to try to solve social problems will help you think differently about what you can do to address whatever issue you're passionate about.  The guest speakers were also really cool, and the class has very few pages of reading a week.  Choose your group project members wisely and make sure you're communicating well enough so it doesn't stress you out in crunch time.  But don't let the project scare you away --take this class!  It's amazing!
Most creative and interesting class at Harvard.  Make sure to participate in class. Professor Ager is simply the best.
This class is absolutely phenomenal.  While it is difficult to be graded based on participation -- particularly when you try to participate but aren't called on -- I would 100% recommend it to people, regardless of their background.  Just work with a good group for your final presentation!
IT IS AN AMAZING CLASS!  Professor Ager and all the TFs are just fantastic and you learn so much about social entrepreneurship and the possible roles you may be able to play in the creation of a social innovation project in the near future.
This is a wonderful course; there's a reason it is always lotteried! Ager is an awesome professor and the work is really interesting and teaches you a lot about a field of business that is often overlooked. Definitely take this course if you have the opportunity!
It's the best class I've taken!  Tough but rewarding
In reading case studies, the Exhibits in the back are very helpful. Read them, too!
This is an AWESOME class! It's honestly one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The case method really helps to bring out discussion even in a lecture-type setting and it's just this magical feeling of listening to everyone's opinions and ideas within that span of 1.5 hours on various aspects of a case. The instructors were absolutely great and I couldn't have asked for more. I don't usually rave about classes, but I will for this one!
Professor Ager brings such enthusiasm to the course, there was never a dull moment.
Be ready to speak up in class and attend every class.
Great class! Ager is an engaging professor and you read interesting case studies.
Best course I've taken at Harvard.
Amazing class. A bucket list class!
take this class, but the grading is not easy. Social entrepreneurship is cool, but difficult :)
This is a great class and Professor Ager does an amazing job leading discussion in a productive way! I thought a case a day was a little too much - sometimes, it didn't feel like I was getting a whole lot out of a particular case/discussion. And sometimes, what you're learning seems a little vague...But overall, I think the cases were useful, and think the class is a great way to learn more about social entrepreneurship and examples of it.
Pick the members of your final group project wisely.
Best class you will take at Harvard. Oh, and pick your final project partners carefully. I'm pretty sure that will make or break this class for you.
This is a very unique course offered at Harvard but be prepared to compete against your fellow classmates to get a good grade in this class.
Take it for a great experience, amazing discussion, and the wonderful professor.
This a challenging yet extremely rewarding class. Know coming in that it's a ton of work, but if you are interested in making a difference in the world, this practical and inspirational course is the one for you. It is probably the best course I've taken at Harvard. It is so practical. It is what I thought every Harvard would be like: engaged, eloquent students, inspiring, caring professor, and wonderful TFs. You should definitely take this course if you can!! It will change your life.
You must take this class.  Absolutely one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. I really wish there were more classes taught using the case study method.  I also loved that the course was practical and relevant; it's rare that I take a Harvard class and feel like I can apply what I've learned to the real world.  Professor Ager is brilliant, funny, engaging, and so committed to undergraduate education and to getting to know his students personally. I was excited to go to class every day and I am so grateful I had the chance to take this class.
THIS CLASS IS A MUST-TAKE AT HARVARD. You will come out of this class with the skills and knowledge to think critically about businesses (social or otherwise), and have the tools to come up with your own if that so suits you.
Super enthusiastic professor, fun case studies. However, discussions are mostly just re-hashing the cases we already read and not super critically thinking about the issue. But rarely do you get a professor as prepared and ready to engage students as Prof. Ager.
A great way to clarify and deepen your thoughts on how to create social impact.
A lot of group work. If you're not a team player, then this probably isn't the best for you. Also, there's a lot of in-class discussion and you HAVE to talk. Best if you like discussion-based learning.
Although the subject matter is fascinating and of great value to learn, the dynamics in lecture are sometimes difficult to deal with. despite Professor Ager's efforts to be fair, some people speak more than others, some speak up for the sake of their participation grade, and sometimes it just gets incredibly annoying having to listen to your peers articulate their newly derived ideas instead of a seasoned, articulate professor explaining to you instead.
This class will change your life and will be so useful if you're interested in social entrepreneurship or even just business (or if you're not!). Be prepared to speak up in class, and to spend a lot of time on your final project.
Awesome class that is definitely a must-take before you graduate
Be aware coming into the class that class participation counts for a lot of your grade; it will be frustrating, sitting in class, having your brilliant comment voiced by someone else, or not being called on for an hour and a half. The final project is incredibly intensive and may make you cry. However, the class is so rewarding and, in my experience, the speakers we heard from, and the effort that Professor Ager, the TFs, and my fellow students put into the class made it worth it.
Its an AMAZING class, completely unlike any other class I've taken and probably one of my favorite at Harvard. Yes, its very early in the morning, but Professor Ager makes it so worth it with his contagious enthusiasm
Take it - regardless of what you hear about grading, workload, or other issues, this class is a once-in-a-lifetime experience that you must enjoy during your time at Harvard.
AMAZING!
Professor Ager is one of my favorite professors and though my personal interests are better suited to Sociology 109, I enjoyed this course as well.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Ager is fantastic and the course material is extremely interesting.
Ager is fantastic, and the class really changes your perception of entrepreneurship, non-profits, etc. I found it incredibly rewarding, although definitely a bit of a challenge (not in terms of workload, but in terms of thinking).
always prep for it, will be rewarded!
Take this class if you are at all interested in working with organizations with a social mission!
This is an awesome course - take it! Even if the topic is something that may not align with your primary interests, the sort of systematic thinking the course encourages as well as the case method it uses are things rarely found in other Harvard classes.
You have to keep up with the case study readings, but they're not very long at all. Try to participate in class. It's not that much work, but not that easy either.
i thought social entrepreneurship would be a great combination of public service and business, but the 8:30am lecture (twice weekly) wasted the first 45 minutes of the 90 minute slot by going over the case and regurgitating facts that everyone should have read and known already. analysis of the business side of things was also somewhat superficial. we made extensive notes but few of them were analytical - most were just fact listing. i felt the business models taught were not useful but served to confuse the matter and had an air of pseudo-rigor that strived for business legitimacy but failed by being either redundant or convoluted
Professor Ager is an amazing teacher. He is enthusiastic about the material and about the class, very accessible outside of class, and very dedicated to his students.
ager is phenomenal. grading per usual in his classes is unclear.
If you are someone who takes initiative and enjoys creative projects then this will be a great course for you.  The course really does require a lot of personal initiative and going above and beyond expectations seems to be the norm to do well.
Great course, can be applied to real-life situations
It's great! it is totally worth the work.
This course equips students to understand the difficulties and opportunities in taking a marginal idea and turning it into a social innovation.
Perfect for anyone with an interest in non-profits; in fact, everyone with an interest in non-profits should take this course.  Or a fun elective.
AMAZING lectures. seriously. read the assigned cases before class carefully and come prepared for discussion, you will learn so much. start early on your final project, work on a big problem, it'll be more challenging but also a lot more fun.
Take it. Now. Doesn't matter if you're going to be a social entrepreneur or not, it really widens your mind to the type of thinking that will be critical in life post-college.
This class is very unique from all the other classes I have taken at Harvard and for this reason, it has added greatly to my college experience. This is the first class I have taken that pertains to what career I will potentially pursue in the future and was incredibly relevant to contemporary society.
The grading is tough!  They expect professional end-products.
Such a great class
Loved the professor and the readings and my TF...everything was great!
If you are interested in non-profit work or business or social entrepreneurship, then this class is for you! Professor Ager is outstanding and the case studies are interesting. Be prepared to participate because that is a huge component of your grade and the most difficult part of the class.
A great class that will train and teach you about the real world social entrepreneurship sector. A great way to gain exposure to this field.
Pick your group members wisely - make sure everyone has the same level of expectations and is actually interested/invested in the topic you choose (don't pick up a slacker)!  You could probably get by with reading just the cases, but the accompanying readings offer so much more insight and are usually very engaging reads - do them!  Don't take this course unless you are comfortable with speaking up and engaging your peers.  Don't ever feel intimidated because sometimes there's quite a bit of posturing - if you've read and thought about the material, you know just as much as anyone else does.  Don't be afraid to take advantage of office hours or email - the professor and TFs are incredible helpful and indispensable to doing well not only in the course, but in applying the ideas.  Take this course and be ready to do the work.  If I were to say that any course at Harvard has been life changing, this would be the one.
Ager is one of the best lecturers at Harvard -- he's also a great professor to get to know. The course is really interesting, and the case discussion is a nice break from problem sets and the like. Good for people who aren't fully interested in the non-profit world too as the same principles apply.
This course is a great way to develop real, applicable knowledge about social enterprise and various approaches to identifying and solving social problems. It requires one to engage actively with the materials and participate in class on a regular basis.
This course is great if you know that you're interested in a business school type class. The course staff is very knowledge and friendly, though they often pick their favorites. It is not the most academic class, however, and doesn't provide a good introduction to central questions in sociology. Sometimes, if you really paid close attention and listened to discussions critically, you will notice that a lot of fluff gets tossed around as though it was deep, intellectual thought. I had trouble really connecting to the course at times because I didn't buy the fluff and had trouble spewing fluff. But that's just me. If you're interested in consulting, this is a great course that will link you to valuable resources and help you to formalize certain ideas that you probably already had.
Great class! This is a gem of a class that anyone remotely interested in business ventures, management and entrepreneurship (not just social, but also for-profit ones!) should take. It's like taking a b-school class as an undergrad, and all of the teaching staff (lecturer and TFs) are genuinely interested in their students learning, putting in great preparation for class and are very willing to meet you after to talk about class and other things. Also, there are many great guest-lecturers and presentations which are super cool too!
Social Entrepreneurship is fantastic!  It is so engaging; you will never be bored.
Be prepared to do a big group project that is quite open-ended
Professor Ager is a phenomenal professor. Get ready to participate!
A MUST TAKE COURSE! Ager is an incredible teacher and someone who is truly passionate about what he does. The class is extremely practical, and if you are at all interested in a case-study type of course and/or learning about social entrepreneurship - you have to take this.
It was an interesting course, but it really is necessary to have a strong interest in and opinion regarding social entrepreneurship.
you learn some great business skills, great class for anyone who is interested in social problems and finding ways in which one can address them.
Professor is incredible and this class is incredible. Do not leave Harvard without taking this class, it's worth waking up at 830 every Tuesday and Thursday.
This is one of the best classes with one of the best professors at Harvard, hands down. Ager is extremely passionate about the subject matter and engages the class to produce amazing discussion. The course also adds very practical elements, such as thinking about strategic growth plans, working in teams, and presentation skills, that few other Harvard courses offer.
Take it!!!  Ager is the best professor I've had at Harvard so far.  You will learn so much from the class discussions, and the material is fascinating and applicable to real life.  Participation is a decent part of your grade, and speaking up in class can be a little difficult/intimidating because this class will be full of smart, enthusiastic people.
it's definitely not an easy A, but it's a great experience
With a dynamic professor, thoughtfully responsive and engaging TF, relevant readings, experienced guest lecturers, and lively discussions, SOC159 is the closest thing to a perfect course you will find at Harvard! That it is probably the most uniquely unique course also says something. In a word: awesome.
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. I recommend that every student take it, particularly those interested in working in the social sector.
For anyone interested in entering the social sector
This is the best class I've ever taken at Harvard.
Great class to learn about your passions and about something practical. You don't get too many opportunities to learn something practical at Harvard so I would jump at the chance to take this class.
It's the best class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Ager is amazing. Take it.
A good class, but I didn't learn very much, and I found the format/professor of the class frustrating.
Know you're getting into a practicum, rather than a hands-off look at the field.  If you're game for that, you're going to have a great time.
Class discussions can be frustratingly fast-paced and scattered (because so many students talk). Prof. Ager is fabulous, but I wish he'd lecture a bit more!
This course is unique and if you can fit it into your schedule, you won't regret it.
This is an interesting, practical course, taught in a fun, interactive case method way.  The final project is a lot of work.  I felt like the grading of the final project was unfair, because when we met with the teaching staff and explained our ideas, they said it was a good idea, but then on the final grades, they told us things weren't that good.  I felt like there was an inside "clique" of students who all were very into social entrepreneurship, and that the teaching staff liked them more.
great class to learn more about how social entrepreneurship works.  guest speakers are the main leaders in the field.
Certain aspects of the class are unfair and don't give all students equal opportunities to do well in this class.
Gives great perspective on social entrepreneurship. Good balance between practical and theory.
This was a superb class, especially for being offered for the first time. It offered an introduction to an entire field and the chance to listen to absolutlely amazing speakers. I can only imagine it getting better.
One of the best classes I have ever taken.
Great class-- one of a kind!
This course is inspirational. In addition to providing the basics for understanding and getting started in the world of social entrepreneurship, it shows you how you can change the world.
Not something to be undertaken without a passion for social entrepreneurship. Nor for anyone that feels uncomfortable about speaking in class.
Work with a small group on the final project and don't sit on the side because Professor Ager won't call on you.
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. If you are fortunate enough to be lotteried into it, you have to take it.
It is an incredible class for anyone thinking about working in social enterprises regardless of if one considers oneself entrepreneurial in any way or not. I would urge students who do take the class to think carefully when selecting group members and also to seek out the TF who seems most familiar with the topic/area on which they would like to focus.
do the case readings before class always. dont be afraid to speak up, the other people around really arent as smart and professional and successful as they make themselves seem.  Some are really just psychophantic.  dont let those busters get you scared.  be real.
It's incredible!
Taking it just might change your life.
This class is not for everyone, but I imagine if social entrepreneurship is of interest to you and you like the format of the class, this would be perfect for you.
Take this class only if you will participate and like the content.
