You should definitely take this course. Professor Dobbin is an excellent and interesting teacher, and the discussions in this class are bound to enrich your knowledge of shareholder value, management, banking, and a wide range of issues with the systems surrounding each of these in the United States and abroad. The readings are wonderful, and the material you will learn will likely be very applicable in your life as both an employee and a citizen.
For anyone who wants to understand how corporate finance works from a standpoint of intellectual curiosity or from a change-oriented perspective, taking this class before you graduate is imperative. To all like-minded liberals out there, you gotta understand the problem before you can fix it. Take this class.
This course is great. It's senior-heavy, filled with students who are very interested in corporate management and its evolution/application. The readings and course discussions are very interesting, and professor Dobbin is awesome.
If you want to understand the financial sector from a sociology point of view take this class.
Not too much work for this class but really interesting topic and class discussion based. I do wish Prof. Dobbin lectures more though, because he is fascinating and so knowledgeable.
Though the subject matter is very interesting, I found the class to have a fairly strong conservative bias, and felt very discouraged to express opinions that were not in line with this norm. The class was taught in a seminar format, but was simply too large to be conducive to good discussion. I would be hesitant to recommend this class for anyone but someone looking to head to private equity or investment banking straight out of college. The class was a great disappointment for me.
The material is fascinating, but Prof Dobbin and Christy are a great team and make this class the gem that it is. I also appreciated how everyone was serious about learning and engaging with the material. It's an enjoyable and intriguing subject to learn and converse about, but they both make it all the more interesting with the passion and insight that they bring on a weekly basis. I would recommend this class wholeheartedly and give it the highest of praises.
Cool class to discuss important sociological aspects to finance. Nice to have a class that isn't all lecturing and has actual discussion. That being said, it gets a little repetitive by the end of the semester.
The course material is really fascinating, and it is very effective at introducing students to the history and contemporary debates around corporate governance, which is so relevant today. This course provides students with a very solid background that will them understand major contemporary issues in finance, corporate governance, and policy. The readings, class discussions, and teaching team really make this class a worthwhile one!
Do not take this class unless you are absolutely fascinated by the subject matter...I don't know why this class got such a high Q guide last year. This is definitely not for you unless you are really committed to the subject matter and have a serious interest in sociology, not a good elective course
This class is perfect for people looking to understand how corporations are run in today's wall-street influenced world.
This is a great class to learn about the world of finance without taking theoretical courses in econ. It has an anthropological/sociological lens to the topic making for engaging conversation about the limits of corporate management/culture. It was a great opportunity to get to think about a topic I'd never really engaged with academically before. Plus, the teaching team are great at giving feedback for final projects/papers.
This course covers extremely fascinating material about the impacts of today's dominant corporate governance philosophy on society.
Superb class. The professor and TF are both great.  Readings are really interesting, class is relaxed, and the final paper was a really thought provoking and well-guided experience
Don't take this course unless you need it for sociology credit.  Definitely don't take it if you are interested in social justice, critical thought, or are easily flustered by hearing the most entitled students push off income inequality to 'luck.'  Unless you can use this course on your resume when you sell your soul to marketing/finance then don't take it.  If only sociology offered more classes, but alas, that's not the case so if you're a sociology major you might be stuck with this course.
This class is great! Professor Dobbin and Christy are both very knowledgeable in the topics of the course and can answer almost any question that you may have. The class is run like a seminar and is better when everyone participates. If they make the class a little smaller, discussions may be more involved.
This is a really interesting course, especially if you're excited about/have done some previous work in finance.  Readings are interesting but not too overwhelming, and both Christy and Prof. Dobbin are especially helpful and knowledgeable if you want to chat!
The class is 90% discussion based, a la section, but with 20 students instead. The class is typically filled with future investment bankers, consultants, and people gearing for an MBA. If you don't take econ or didn't work for an investment bank over the summer, be prepared to not always feel comfortable to talk, especially while that kid who worked for Morgan Stanley or whatever talks ever 3 minutes and constantly corrects people (which is fine, tbqh). Despite these frustrations, the class is good, professor Dobbin is sympathetic towards the critical perspective on the last 40 years of American capitalism.You will learn that the whole craze about trying to create shareholder value is entirely socially constructed, unnecessary, perpetuated by investment banks, detrimental to society and the economy, etc. If you enjoy understanding how all that plays out through a sociological lens, take this course!
Great course! Not too much work but very interesting topics.
Challenging, but definitely worthwhile. You will learn a lot.
This class is a very interesting perspective on topics that are important for people about to enter the workforce. The discussions were interesting an the teaching staff great, but I would have loved to see the sociological elements of the course further emphasized.
Great class with interesting readings that I would've read for fun anyway (sections of Liar's Poker, etc). If you don't know anything about corporate finance or if you don't enjoy reading DealBook, WSJ, FT, etc, then some of the things people say during class may go over your head (but this sort of knowledge isn't absolutely necessary, just helpful).
This course has been a joy to take! Professor Dobbin and Christy are very knowledgable on the subject. They do a great job of guiding the class discussion. I do wish that Professor Dobbin would lecture a little more.
The readings can be kind of tough to get though, but the info. you learned in this course is really interesting, especially if you were thinking about going into the financial industry (or consulting)- really changed my view about the recruiting process and the current state of business.
