Very great course. Discussions covered every important topic of sports ranging from the youth level to the professional ranks.
Hopefully the course will change in coming years but if you have true academic interests in sports, you will only gain VERY limited knowledge. The class mostly circled athlete stories and hardly discussed topics in any sociological lens. You will discuss topics that you don't think are academic and I found fascinating, but the discussions usually weren't terribly fruitful. Beth Truesdale is an incredible TF and although there wasn't a section component to the course, she was easy to reach and contact. Professor Waters on the other hand rarely responds emails, which is disappointing at the very least.
Great class that provides an opportunity to discuss issues in sports and read interesting material.
I loved this class. The topics were all very interesting and was actually material that you would discuss with friends outside of class! Take it!
Make sure you know how to write a sociology paper before you start doing your research for the final paper, especially if you're a science person.  If you do the readings you'll get more out of the class, and they're usually pretty interesting.  Focus on what interests you if you don't have time to get to everything.
Possibly one of the best classes at Harvard for athletes and sociology majors that care about athletics. Phenomenal personalities in the class and really great topics. A 15-20 page paper at the end, but it was one of my most favorite papers that I have written in college.
Great discussion.
Touches on many controversies in modern American sports from an educated background. Will change the way you view games and players.
read everything and introduce outside topics as well
Professor Waters is great and highly engaging with her students. I really enjoyed the class. If you don't play sports or watch them, this may not be the class for you as the class was made up of mostly varsity athletes. That said, it was nice to interact with such a diverse group of athletes every week and share experiences and discuss the various topics through a sociological lens. It isn't super time consuming, just don't forget to submit the weekly reaction paper of the readings. In sum, I highly recommend this course if you are interested in sports!
