This was an excellent course. I felt that I got great exposure to methods, but also to how to critically think about statistics.
I cannot recommend this course highly enough. This course is *the* way to understand social science methodology and matrix statistics. I think that taking this course you will have a much better actual understanding and working knowledge of these methods than almost anybody else.
The class is wonderful.  I learned an incredible amount.  But it was hard--very time consuming.  Be prepared to spend a lot of time on the problem sets, and a lot of time studying for the exams.  It's worth it, though, if you plan to do quantitative research.  And Kinga is amazing!
It is going to change the way you will think about quantitative methods.
It's very difficult but it provides excellent payoff if you can devote the necessary time to do the work thoroughly.
You will put a lot of time into this course - just recognize that (6 hours of class per week, plus  time for assignments and studying). At the same time, you'll come away with a great understanding of specific stats methods and conceptual tools that you'll probably need if you ever want to do quantitative research.
Well worth the pain for insight into quantitative reasoning
The course is a very useful, practical second course in quantitative analysis/regression, with a reasonable work requirement compared with some of the more theoretical, problem set-oriented courses offered in other departments. The professor is very honest about the correct and incorrect approaches to most issues and often points out when common practice is deficient in some respect.
This class is great training for using quantitative methods in social sciences, beyond basic regression.
see intro - teaches you what tools to use and how to critically assess peers' work
This course will allow you to understand and produce statistically based empirical research in social sciences.
I have learned more in Soc 203a than in any other stat class at Harvard. Without getting bogged down in the formulas, Professor Winship provides an excellent overview of the concepts behind a variety of quantitative models. He covers a lot of topics (matrix approach to regression, counterfactual causality, propensity score matching, fixed effects models, generalized least squares (random effects, HLM), instrumental variables, structural equation models (to name a few)). It seems like a lot of material to cover, but everything is tied together cleanly under the overarching theme of causal inference. After taking the course, I can understand articles using these models, and I can apply the basic models we studied in my own research. If I wanted to use more complex forms of the models we studied (i.e. structural equation models), I would know what to read and where to turn. Professor Winship is also really friendly and happy to talk with us about our own research ideas!
This class provides a great deal regarding more advanced statistical analyses, primarily regression focused. There is also some very useful material on design, sampling, and causal inference. Do know that the course moves at a pretty fast pace, so you need to keep up.
Really great for building intuition! Super helpful. Perfect fit for people seeking methods training at an advanced level but don't have the math pre-reqs for econ sequence. Great way to build intuition and applied methods skills.
This is a fantastic class! You'll get out of it what you put in.  Grapple with the ideas, struggle to understand the derivations, and a few months of hard work will pay off in a grasp of analytical techniques that will set you above the field for the rest of your career.Get a group together and read some of Chris's work (and other methodological papers he cites in class), to give some depth and background to the lectures.  It would be well worth it.
Chris was a fantastic instructor. I learned a ton in this class. The homework and tests were challenging, but had to be since we covered a lot of material. It was very important to have a good study group for this course.
This is a course that has the potential really shift how you think about causality. But prepared to draw a lot of the connections between the material in the different lectures on your own.
This class is fantastic. I highly, highly recommend it. Chris does an incredible job of teaching a vast array of material over the course of the semester. After taking 203a, you will have a clear understanding of a variety of statistical tools (SLR, MLR, HLM, Logistic regressions, etc.).I recommend coming in with a very strong understanding of SLR and MLR.
That to ensure you have time to focus on this course.
Take this course very seriously - the content will be some of the most useful you gain exposure to in grad school. Make sure to pay particular attention to the problem sets and section content if you want to perform well on the exams. Try not to get too bogged down in the abstract components of the lecture notes.
Professor Winship makes this very difficult material accessible. Were it not for the misalignment between the grading and the expectations as well as the lack of timely and specific feedback (all of which I believe are due to the TAs' failure to align with the Professor or execution of tasks), this would have been one of my favorite classes.
You learn a lot and the professor highlights what is important, which is very helpful.
This is one of the best statistics courses you can take at the doctoral level.  Professor Winship not only provides a broad outline of numerous quantitative methods so that you can dive deeper into them when you need to for your own research, but he provides incredible depth in the assumptions you have to make with each of those methods.  The thing I appreciate most is that getting those details are what you can't get from other classes or other professors.  Sure, you can learn OLS, GLS, HLM, and countless other models, but there are many subtle mistakes that will affect your results if you don't know them.  And those subtle mistakes are unknown among most professional researchers, so getting exposure in this course will prepare you to perform the best work possible with a quantitative lens, and also help you defend your work against anyone who might question your results.
Qualitative researchers in particular would benefit from taking this course very seriously. Not only does it provide you with some of the best tools to criticize sloppy statistical work that would otherwise seem incomprehensible, but the instructor makes many insightful asides about epistemology and ontology in sociology more generally. It's a fun class if you're well caffeinated!
It is very thorough, but also quite applied.
It is an extremely important class to take as a sociology graduate student. Even though some of the material was complex and challenging, what you take away from the course is truly invaluable.
You need a lot of time for this course.
If you have ever wondered why the equations you must plug and chug actually give you the correct answer, you should take this class. It gives the concepts behind the numbers.
The course is challenging, but it provides a good foundation for your future work.
This course is a lot of work, but worthwhile. It provides an excellent intuitive understanding of a variety of quantitative data analysis methods.  The course is grounded in sociology-based examples.
Excellent course to for any sociologly/econ. soc. student to gain a basic understanding of quant methods used in the field and how to critic soc. quant work.
This course is essential for sociologists. The material covered provides a solid and necessary foundation in quantitative methods for everyone.
Read and reflect on the materials over and over again. One's understanding can deepen continuously, especially when one goes back to earlier concepts and reflect on those again.
If you've taken a good regression course and don't really know where to go next (there are so many methods out there and classes for all of them), this is a perfect next step. It refines your thinking about statistical analyses and introduces the student to a variety of different methods with a basic understanding, so you'll have a much better idea of where you'd like to go afterward
Great introduction of higher-level statistical techniques from the perspective of social science
Soc 203a will give you a great grounding in OLS and experimental design as it applies specifically to sociology while also providing an introduction to more advanced methods that modify or build on OLS which are commonly used in sociology.
This a great class for anyone wanting a deep overview of the major concepts in quantitative analysis.
That it will push your thinking about statistics and causal questions in very important ways.
I was very scared to take this class - I heard it was really hard. It was, but worth every second of the effort.  You will really enjoy yourself, and will never look at the world or sociology research in the same way.  It is really worth putting a lot of time into this class, as I did, because you will get so much out of it!  It will be the best (or one of the best) classes you take in graduate school, even if you consider yourself a qualitative researcher.
go to section.  also, the exams are mostly memorization.  the course overall is very helpful though in better understanding the math behind the statistics.
This is an extremely useful course for understanding research design.
Tired of learning all the math proofs and still don't have a clue what is going on? If you want to know the intuitions behind regressions and other quantitative methods, this is the course to take.
Fantastic to get only what matters most about econometrics without doing too much math. For more depth, a lot of math is necessary (one should take a formal econometrics class). This class provides a nice understanding without going through the math.
This course gives you a good conceptual understanding of the subjects; it is not focused on actual application of the material to research problems or questions.  Lab assignments walk you through the nuts and bolts of STATA rather than focused on conceptualizing problems using the techniques we are taught.
It's not nearly as bad as everyone makes it sound, you learn A LOT, and if you're serious about being able to read and understand an academic article, you should take it.  This class is great for learning how to think logically and like a social scientist.  It is for a thinking person.
This course covers a lot of material. It is absolutely vital for quantitative researchers. It was well-taught and accessible to those less mathematically inclined.
Ask questions. You can only get through this class if you are honest about when you don't understand instead of posturing in class. Chris is a wonderful human being who is very willing to help you learn and answer any question that you may have, however dumb or insignificant. There will be many times when you feel lost during lecture. Don't think that everyone else understands what is going on and you are the only one lost. If you feel that way don't let it prevent you from asking questions. A comfortable environment where your questions are adressed is necessary to learn the difficult material
I found the first 6-8 lectures in the class to be very helpful (those lectures that dealt with matching and balancing).  The subsequent ten or so lectures were not as helpful.
It's an extremely thought-provoking and valuable course to anyone who wants to think deeply about research.
If you really want to learn stats, this course is for you.
Absolutely phenomenal
- prepare to spend lots of time on this, but you'll get lots out of the class in exchange.
This course is great and will help you think about data analysis and the theories of knowledge that underlie various procedures.  While it centers on quantitative data and analyses, the epistemological issues that Professor Winship covers apply to qualitative work, as well.  And don't be scared if you here rumors that this is such a hard course.  It's hard but super interesting and informative.
Whether you are a quantitative or qualitative researcher, this class makes you a sociologist.  It makes you think long and hard about design, analysis, and conclusions.  It also makes you rethink may of your assumptions about research design and application of theory.
There is no way that you will regret taking this class! Even people who have taken advanced econometrics will find a lot of useful material here!
I would tell, and have already told, students to take this course to get a really good understanding of some of the statistics concepts that are taught in other courses elsewhere in the university.  I think that Professor Winship really has a gift for communicating a lot of these concepts so that students understand to a good degree not just what is happening conceptually but also the mechanics involved.
This class will kick your butt, but in a good way. It's very important as a sociologist to be able to communicate with scholars who use all different types of methods and so even as a qualitative methodologist, I found this course incredibly useful to help me in my career.
While the course is at times challenging and certainly requires a bit of time, it really gives you a strong foundation in understanding the concepts of many important statistical methods.
An applied quantitative social sciences class that gets beginners to become intermediate practitioners.
read the lecture notes before class!
This is an absolutely necessary course for quantitative researchers. But for others it is likely to be a challenge.
You will come out of this class really understanding what goes on under the hood when you analyze data (where lots of other classes allow you to get through without having that deep understanding). But you have to be ready to spend a lot of time on this class, including both in-class learning and homework/studying. I would think of it as 2 classes, not 1.
The lecture notes are fabulous. Read them twice.
It is a lot of work but very rewarding.
Very hard, but very rewarding. A must for social scientists.
It is a tough course. Be prepared to spend a lot of time on the course, between class, section and the problem sets, it adds up. I would recommend finding a few people to study with. You will learn a lot.
good overview for someone with basic stats background
