A class that will challenge your view of the criminal justice system. It will get you thinking, but you will learn more from your classmates than the instructor.
If you are at all interested in the prison system or racial politics in America, this class is a must. Provocative and engaging, it challenged me and pushed me to reconsider the development of the American prison system from a racial perspective. There is a strong "liberal" bias, sure, but that's to be expected. Kaia is so sweet and genuinely interested in both the subject matter and her students. Overall, this is one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard, and I'm so grateful I got to experience it before I graduate.
The history in the first four weeks of the course is interesting, but after that the instruction is mostly reiterations of similar ways the criminal justice system is unjust against different groups, mostly African Americans.  There are a lot of videos in this second part which are informative but which you could pursue on your own.  If you do not know anything about mass incarceration, it is an ongoing genocide that we are complicit in and you should learn about.  This class is unlikely to change your views regarding it, and class time is not devoted to "solutions" to the problem.
Interesting class.  A lot of reading, but it is interesting stuff, and there are many guest speakers and other fun experiences, like a prison visit for example, that are different that a lot of other classes.  Also, a lot of what we read and watch is very provocative, which can really make you think deeper and in different ways, but it can be heavy.
I'm glad I took it because I didn't know any of the details about the prison industrial complex, but I honestly didn't learn much. The lack of nuance and excess of sweeping statements eventually made me realize i wasn't learning much, even though I did the work and came to class. It felt like an idealistic liberal examination that I agreed 100% with, but didn't feel like any of my beliefs were challenged or that any kind of variety of perspectives. However, the guest speakers and prison visit were amazing
I thoroughly enjoyed this class. Professor Stern is obviously passionate about the topic and is good lecturer. She is also very caring and willing to support students in whatever way possible. The course content can be tough to get through but it is essential and can be eye-opening if you are unaware of the systems of supremacy at work. Brielle is a great TF and super helpful. Both Brielle and Professor Stern are fully accessible to students for anything really, you just need to ask. This course provides a lot of content to engage with and you can really gain a lot from it if you pay attention. This course is definitely worth the effort you put into it, and you don't necessarily need to put a ton of effort in to get a lot out of it. That being said, the readings, though sometimes excessive in terms of amount, are all interesting and worth actually reading. Feedback on written work can sometimes seem harsh or excessive but it will only make you better if you look beyond the individual grade itself, plus if you reach out for help and try to improve then it will reflect not only in individual grades, but also in your overall grade. I definitely recommend the class.
This class is awesome! Reasonable amount of readings and interesting viewpoints.
Although anyone talking this class can feel the enthusiasm and genuine interest in the professor's attitude toward allieviating some of the problems associated with mass incarceration, I would not recommend it for anyone who is looking for a strictly academic approach to the subject. It was emphasized that discussion was open to all viewpoints, but I sometimes did not feel comfortable participating in conversation unless I agreed with the opinions that were being put forward. The final paper is a good way to really dive into a topic of your interest, but the midterm was pure regurgitation of memorized facts and events. At times, the class felt really disorganized, especially since a few response papers were thrown in at the last minute to see if you were doing the readings, and an entire group project which took up three entire class periods was put in at the end, even though it was not in the syllabus.
This is a course that everyone should take at Harvard. It makes you question the institutional systems that surround us but it also asks you to go beyond an academic perspective and think about what we can do to solve the current problems with our criminal justice system.
The course is a weekly sermon on the issues of the world and how we are contributing without offering any solutions or room for constructive discussion of solutions or varying opinions
Interesting subject matter- far too much reading and not well facilitated.
The course feels rushed towards the end, with unnecessary reading responses and class presentations not detailed in the syllabus.
Try to get 1:1 time with Professor Stern if class remains at 50mins twice a week; there isn't enough time to really dig into to the content based on how it is currently structured
This course is a good introduction to these issues but if you already know a lot about mass incarceration you may not want to take it.
It is an interesting and challenging look at the U.S. punishment crisis. Kaia is an excellent lecturer and engages students with her presentations. There is a fair amount of reading each week and a midterm that will cover specific details. I found the TFs and Kaia willing to help students and there were opportunities to visit a prison and a jail. Terrific course!
Unless you just want to go on a crusade against prisons WITHOUT much information or thoughtful discussion to back you up, don't take this course. I believe the prison system should be reformed, but the class was basically a giant rant against The Man (so to speak). I wanted to learn about how prisons operate and what life inside prison is like. Although I learned a bit about the demographics of prison, this course is more a pulpit for the professor to denounce prisons, and the other side of the story is never considered.
You will come away from this class with a whole new outlook on life, particularly one of the major setbacks currently permeating the american society.
This is not the easiest class, but Professor Stern is amazing, and you will learn so much. This class was extremely eye-opening, and everyone should take it.
Not worth your time.
You will grow to understand the issues at stake and become more passionate about resolving them!
This is a class that every college student in America should take.  The issues discussed are heavy and sometimes difficult to cope with, but it is absolutely essential for every future leader to be informed about the history of racial oppression that has led to the construction of our completely flawed prison system.  Take this course and make sure you tell all your friends to take this course as well.
I would recommend this course because the content was very important and everyone should think more critically about the justice and law enforcement systems and why certain groups of people are imprisoned or incriminated more often than others. There is extreme inequality in our penal system and this merits study. However, I did find the course very ideological--there was little room for skepticism or questioning the premise of injustice upon which the course was founded. Although this premise was convincing, the course sometimes felt like a rallying cry rather than an objective, academic treatment of an important and nuanced topic. The course also felt disorganized at times although this is likely a product of it being taught for the first time.
don't take this class. this is the worst of the worst gut classes. it is painful and a waste of time. however, the midterm is memorize 34 dates, 25% participation, 25% 4 page draft, and 25% 12-15 page paper. potentially the easiest and least intellectual/academic course on campus.
This is a really good course if you are interested in the history of our punishment system and the effects of mass incarceration but it can tend to focus too much on abstract ideas of punishment.
That the course was easy, broadened my basic knowledge of the prison system, but was limited insofar as class content exclusively engaged the sociological lens, and thus missed a lot.
I did not feel challenged by this course but the readings were interesting. At the end though, I wondered what I learned that I didn't know before.
This course had great intentions. Mass incarceration is a huge civil rights issue, and it's important for us to be well informed in order to bring about change. I appreciate Professor Stern's passion for her work, but sometimes the passion clouded the fact that we really weren't learning much. I already knew mass incarceration was an issue (I think most people taking the course did), but I would have liked to learn more about how it became an issue, how the US's racial history has led to the mass incarceration of minorities, the effects of this, etc (so, basically everything in Michelle Alexander's "The New Jim Crow"). Also, sometimes it was difficult to share differing opinions. Most of the louder people (and the teaching staff) spoke about mass incarceration as if prison abolition were the only thing that would bring about change. We never really talked about how it could be both practical and morally justifiable to have prisons. Granted the system is discriminatory, but punishment can also be a morally justifiable response to crime. There was also a great emphasis on the role of Christianity in the development of the prison system, but there was no discussion about how it could be practical or moral from a religious perspective. Most things were said as if they were fact, and there were no differing opinions. I would have liked to see more actual discussion.There are some good aspects about  the course, though. For example, we got to hear about one man's experience in prison (after being incarcerated for a crime he didn't commit, and later exonerated). That was a really powerful talk. All this being said, I wouldn't take this class if you really want to learn about mass incarceration...
That it is one of those classes that you will learn a lot of information that before you did not know. It could change your life being exposed to this information and if you do decide to take a trip to the jail with the class.
This is a PHENOMENAL class. Absolutely take it. My favorite class I have taken at Harvard. Kaia is so passionate and open to discussions. Take this class.
From what I can tell, some people love this class while others are incredibly turned off by it. Go to the first lecture; the rest of the course is virtually the same in terms of atmosphere, lecture style, content. You'll be able to tell right away if this is the class for you. Know that you will learn a lot about the problems inherent in the U.S. prison system, and not a lot about possible solutions. And you'll be expected to agree with many of Kaia's assumptions.
This class hooked me in the first week. As the course went on, however, the ways ideas were presented felt repetitive. If you have never thought about how slavery relates to prison then this course would blow your mind! If you have...you may be a bit frustrated with your classmates and with the pace of the class.
Real talk.
You learn a lot in the beginning, and then what you get out of this course is up to you. It requires a lot of independent thought to come up with an idea for the research paper.
This is a life-changing course, and Kaia is an all-star. Take it, period.
This class is great.  The assignments were not too difficult, and the material is really interesting.  Kaia and the teaching staff are all very passionate about the issues discussed throughout the course, and the guest speakers are great.
This course explores an urgent civil rights issue in the US, drawing upon historical themes, analyzing different perspectives, and debunking many misperceptions. The instructors are very committed to the students' learning and do their best to make the course suit the interests of those in the room.  I learned so much and enjoyed every minute of outclass time together.
Take the course if you are really passionate about mass incarceration.
Would definitely recommend taking this class if you are at all interested in human right, social justice, or race. It is not very structured, though, so go in with reservations. Sometimes hard to follow, but overall very eye opening and enjoyable. Learned about mass incarceration in a whole new perspective.
The course material can be interesting, but I didn't feel like this course used my time well and I didn't actually learn very much from the lectures. Professor Stern is super passionate about the topic, but the course just didn't live up to my expectations. The midterm also just required students to memorize key dates, which felt like a middle school exam.
The professor can be a bit dramatic which can be distracting at times
This is a cliche, but honestly EVERY HARVARD STUDENT SHOULD TAKE THIS CLASS. The topics the class covers are absolutely eye opening and amazing. The teaching staff goes above and beyond and sets up cool field trips and exhibits for the class to further enrich the course material. The test is straight-forward and this class I think is so important for every member of society. Every class should be like this, Harvard would be a much better place.
This class is a real eye-opener on one of the biggest issues to affect us today. The reading material is actually really worth reading, and not just some kind of boring, irrelevant thing that is common in so many other classes
This is a great introductory class for anyone interested in sociology and social justie work. You don't really need to have any prior experience.
