An excellent introduction to Central Asian societies and a very interactive course.
This course offers a very comprehensive introduction to political, economic and social issues in contemporary Central Asia.
That Dr. Adams is one of the best, most supportive professors you'll find.  And the course is highly influenced by student interests and abilities.
I would say this course is an excellent introduction to Central Asia, although if one is not sufficiently interested in the region, the course might seem a little boring.
Take it if you want a comprehensive overview of modern-day Central Asia and the Caucasus,  Be prepared to focus a lot on domestic and international politics in the two regions.
This class is one of very few on Central Asia and the Caucasus that are being offered at Harvard, so if you want to take something on these regions, you should definitely take this when it is offered, since you likely won't get another opportunity. The class gives you a broad overview of the two regions. If you already have in-depth knowledge of one of the countries involved, you probably won't learn much more about that country, but you will learn about the others that you are less familiar with.
I would recommend this with enthusiasm to anyone with expertise in the region and recommend with reservations to anyone without the expertise.  The reservations are basically that the first few weeks include a lot of background information and history of the region that the rest of the class took in stride and outsiders would not.
This is an excellent course. It is a great introduction to theory in political science, sociology, and anthropology for the region.
A real "regional" studies course. That is, it focuses more on the region than on a methodology or academic approach to the region. At times it will seem like an anthropology course, at other times, political science, or sociology. Overall, very useful for general knowledge of the region.
Firstly, this course (assuming its offered in the same form in the future) does not seem to be a traditional sociology course. If you are interested in developing an understanding of these two areas that you probably don't contact much in other courses at Harvard, this is a great introduction. I probably would not recommend it casually however. The more you put in, the more you get out.
