TAKE THIS COURSE.  I think it should be required for every student at Harvard.  Bobo is a great thinker, writer and overall awesome person.  He has an infectious laugh and truly cares about how students are processing course materials.  After taking this course, I can confidently say that he is one of "those" Professors.  "Those" Professors are individuals that care about student learning.  You can determine if a Professor cares about learning and ideas based upon how they listen.  Bobo listens and responds accordingly.  He's committed to critical thinking and holds the same expectations for his classroom.  Take this course, you won't be disappointed.
This class was probably the best class I've taken at Harvard. I would especially encourage those who ascribe to the post-racial narrative to take this seminar.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard with one of the best professors at Harvard. Take it.
That this is the best class that I have taken at Harvard. That to be concerned with inequality in America, social science broadly speaking, culture as a sphere of study, African-American studies, American history and politics of race and our contemporary life and not take this course makes no sense. And that given a chance to learn from Prof. Bobo, students should take it.
This course, from the critical subject matter to the extraordinary professor (who had us to his house for a glorious final dinner celebration to end the term!), I feel strongly that this should be a required course for any graduate student in the social sciences and anyone who cares at all about inequality, race and the future of this country. Cannot recommend Bobo more highly.
This course requires in depth engagement with the sociological literature on race; set aside plenty of time to read all material in depth
Everyone should have to take this course--at Harvard and everywhere. It dispels any nonsense myths about the status quo of race relations in America being better than they actually are, and brings both quantitative and qualitative insights to bear on important questions dealing with race, politics, and inequality in the U.S.
This is a great class. The weekly reading responses are really annoying, but discussions are always interesting and Bobo is a great discussion leader. It was definitely worth it.
This is a great class! Be prepared for a lot of reading and writing, but if you work hard on it you'll get a lot out of the class discussions. Professor Bobo is great and it's a wonderful opportunity to learn from a leader in the field.
Very comprehensive and stimulating course!
You will need to be aggressive about connecting with Prof. Bobo. He is not very responsive over email.
This class is purely discussion-based, and thus it is important that you do the reading. (This is taken care of, however, through the weekly reading responses.) The weekly reading responses do make the class take a decent amount of time during the week, but they really help you formulate ideas about the overall picture of the course and the subject for that week. Overall, I really enjoyed this course, especially with the mixed-methods approach and the professor's emphasis on big-picture arguments.
If you are interested in relations between blacks and whites in America, take the course. This course is not so relevant to other racial groups, or to other places.
