This course covers very interesting subject material, but I believe spending an entire semester on it is a stretch.
This class is a very interesting idea in theory, and Prof. Jasanoff is fantastic. It was also a bit hard to follow the links between sections of the course (only tangentially related by their relationships to law or science) and the grading for the class was VERY erratic. Overall, I'm not sure, if I could go back in time, if i would definitely take this class again.
If the section component improves, this class is really worth taking. Even if it doesn't, the subject matter is really important for anyone who wants to go into law later on in the future.
The class material is truly engaging, eye opening, and informative. Be sure to dedicate as much time as you can to the readings, and to reflecting on the readings, to truly get the most out of this class.
Definitely take this class (or any others that are taught by Professor Jasanoff) if it is offered again! Amazing reading list, great lectures, and you get the chance to learn from one of the founders of the Science, Technology, and Society field! Took it as a pure elective and definitely found it worthwhile.
Professor Jasanoff is mind blowingly intelligent. She is interested in you if you go to office hours. She is difficult to understand in lecture. I couldn't always keep up with her. But this class will give you a new perspective on law and is also a great introduction to anything law-related.
this course, while fascinating, is not easy. There are many readings, and there are many dense readings. The class forces you to think about law and science in a way that stretches your brain. Definitely one of the hardest classes I've taken here, but if you are interested in the material, well worth your time.
Not an easy class, but very interesting and Professor Jasanoff is phenomenal.
The material in this course is awesome and the workload is manageable. It's not an easy A, but the course covers some really interesting and relevant topics.
Professor Jasanoff is incredibly smart and talented, but is also very pedantic so there is not a lot of room for discourse/dialogue. We cover a lot of material though and it's very interesting. Not very cohesive as a course overall but very engaging in separate units.
It was one of my favorite courses of the semester. The topic is great.
If you are interested in any of the subject matter definitely take it!
Take this class. Getting to know professor Jassanoff and Shun Ling was one of the most rewarding relationships I've had with teachers so far at Harvard, and they do a wonderful job of brining in exciting speakers and making the material relevant.
This class challenges you to address current issues at the intersection of law, science, and society. It totally changes how you think about systems society has set up, and the fundamental conflicts between law and science. A really interesting learning experience, and not too tough!
EXCELLENT materials, and of course Prof. Jasanoff invented the field, so this is a class you'd want to take. I do highly recommend taking this course pass/fail if you are NOT a science concentrator or pre-law (or maybe you are), because I had difficulty keeping up with the material once midterm season hit. As someone with almost no background in law, I learned an absurd amount about the (American) Justice System from this class, and realized that I definitely am not interested in law because the solutions I seek are not there. This course give you an excellent overview of relevant, modern matters in the courtroom, SCOTUS, but contextualized in what society is thinking, and what I, as a sociologist and just a citizen, think about things. It was a bit intimidating standing my ground against so many more informed pre-law and science concentrators, but I am VERY glad I took this course.For those with heavy workloads, slow readers, or those with little knowledge of the judiciary, definitely do consider pass/failing it.
Take this class. It's hard. It's a lot of reading. The professor is kind of intimidating. But you get out of it what you put into it - which is A LOT. If you have any interest in the intersection between law and science, take it. This class is awesome and I enjoyed my experience. Definitely one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
This class convinced me not to go to law school.That being said, I enjoyed the material and think the individual cases we looked at are interesting. Just made me realize how deeply flawed the judicial system is. Professor Jasanoff is brilliant -go to her office hours!If you're lucky, she will give you biscuits and make jokes about Downton Abbey and the Tardis.
This class is a great introduction to issues at the intersection of law, science and society, and it covers a huge range of material - even if one day's topic doesn't interest you, many others will. Prof. Jasanoff also asks for some biographical information from each student at the beginning of the course so that she can make sure to cover info that will fit students' interests. Though lecture was a bit slow at times, it was nice to just sit and learn from Prof. Jasanoff for 2 hours each week since she is so brilliant/experienced in this field. Overall, this is a great option for someone particularly interested in law or science, or a sociology student who wants to diversify their electives. I was actually in the minority as a sociology concentrator but I loved that it was different from other soc classes I've taken and I felt that I could make unique contributions to discussions.
Personally found the units hit-or-miss in terms of how interesting they were, but Prof. Jasanoff is a very compelling lecturer. The course is probably better suited for someone with a background in sociology/pre-law rather than science/engineering (the most relevant area is biology).
You have to like reading and interpreting judicial opinions.
This class is absolutely fascinating. If you like law, science, technology, society, politics, etc. please do yourself a favor and take this class. This class made me fundamentally doubt whether or not going to law school was for me, but in the end it redoubled my desire to pursue law.
This class is not for the faint of heart, and will involve a regular but not unreasonable workload, with denser legal texts. This being said, if you have any interest in science and society, and/or its intersection with the law, I would highly recommend this course.
Somewhat disappointed by this course. Expectations were not clear or straight-forward.
This class is amazing! If you have any interest in the intersection of law and science, it is a must take. However, if you are unsure, the class is case-heavy. Work load is totally manageable.
This class was very fascinating to understand how science and the law intersect, and what those implications are on an increasingly technologically advanced society. While the weekly workload is relatively light, the topics discussed are by no means easy to understand and comprehend. I recommend going to office hours to have a more personal discussion with a tf to understand how the material all links together.
it's hard!
This course takes a very deep turn throughout the semester, I would look ahead in the semester and be sure that all of the topics are of interest.
Professor Jasanoff is undoubtedly one of the most intelligent and interesting professors at Harvard.  Every undergraduate should strive to take at least one class with her to engage with her ideas.  This class is great for those interested in law, though sections at times seemed a bit disconnected from the lectures which created a bit of confusion.  Overall definitely a class that you will get a lot out of without needing to put a ton of time in, though.
Jasanoff is highly regarded and well published in the field of the law-science relationship, so the class is one of the remarkable "Harvard classes" in which you're being taught by the leading scholar in the field. Jasanoff's engaging lectures about her own scholarship provide a remarkably broad introduction to the relationship between law and science, while also diving more deeply into her own scholarly interests. The course has made me re-think both law and science by providing examples of the ways in which they inform and shape each other. Furthermore, it has exposed me to important gaps in existing legal frameworks. The course has further inspired me to pursue not just law school, but hopefully also legal scholarship that is informed by the critical frameworks introduced in the course. Furthermore, the subject matter of the course is increasingly relevent as technology continues to play more formative roles in our lives, so a study of the effects of the ways in which the law and society more broadly think about technology should be required for all Harvard students.
This class is interesting, but it seems to lose track of itself halfway through. The claims that are made are interesting, but there isn't much chance for students to evaluate those claims ourselves - you're expected to write papers etc from the perspective of the course, and aren't given a chance to critique it.The grading is silly, like unnecessarily difficult, but if you really want to take the class it might be worth it
This course is really cool - it gives you a broad perspective on the legal history of technology in the US and opens your mind up to relevant questions in the field. Definitely go to office hours - Professor Jasanoff has a wealth of experience and knowledge that is impossible to get across in the span of some 15 lectures throughout the term.
Covers a wide breadth of critical topics in the intersection of law and science, and gives nuanced, expert perspectives on each of them. The readings are very pertinent, lectures are very engaging, and sections illuminate the text intelligently.
Incredible look at the intersection between law and science (and society, as the course name suggests). Prof Jasanoff is a legend, and this is clearly a topic she is fluent in. One of the best and most important classes I've taken at Harvard.
Take this class for Sheila Jasanoff. She is an amazing professor and is literally the founder of the science-technology-society field. Class is definitely enough work (~7-8 hours reading / week) if you do all of it, but you learn a lot and very worth it.
This class touches on a variety of topics, but it requires a fair amount of reading of legal cases, and understanding a series of scientific developments that may be unfamiliar if coming primarily from a government background. Still, the class is very fascinating, and I enjoyed learning about both the legal philosophy around expertise, and how it is applied to a series of scientific issues.
Really great if you want to stretch your mind but still have a manageable course load
Interesting course material and an incredibly knowledgeable professor who is basically one founder of the field being taught! However, reading is very demanding and the final paper and exam are worth a whopping 60% of the grade!
