you have to take it. it's not bad though. very easy, nice teaching staff.
Sociology 128 is a great class for those interested in getting an introduction to social science research methods. As an Econ concentrator, I wanted to learn more about non-quantitative research methods. This classed was great at introducing interviewing, ethnographies and other methods. It will not dive super deep into each method, which is a good thing, if you are looking for a broad interview. Pofessor Sosnaud is probably one of the most diligent lecturers I have had the pleasure of learning from. He puts a tremendous amount of effort into the course and really wants you to learn.
Great class!  Enthusiastic teaching staff that will leave you with a concrete understanding of social science research methods.
It's not a hard course and it's a pretty basic introduction to social sciences. The TFs and professor over-explain and make the whole process really annoying, especially grading.
I probably wouldn't recommend this class for students of whom it is not required. If you're interested in specific methods in social science, there are ways to get a much more in depth look at the specific methods you might be interested rather than very briefly looking at a lot of different methods. The course is very, very easy, which might also factor into other students' decisions.
It's a good way to fulfill your methods requirement and the assignments are very informative. They are really helpful for getting practice in the field.
This is a very easy course, everything you need to know is posted on slides online, unless this is a requirement I wouldn't recommend it. Yes, it is an easy A and requires minimal work, but given the limited amount of classes we can take at Harvard this one seemed like a waste of time since lots of the things we learn is very basic and straightforward that can be picked up in other classes without difficulty. Just to give you an idea we spent a whole week on what surveys were and another one on what interviews were.
This is a concentration requirement for sociology but I enjoyed it so much. I'd recommend it for anyone who has an interest in research, whether that be conducting research or understanding research that is being presented to you. Very enjoyable, not impossible in the workload. I really felt like I learned a lot of valuable skills.
Just take it! YOU HAVE TO
It's a great, practical, not hard, methods class. I'm a social studies concentrator and am SO HAPPY I took this over Social Studies 40 (which I think is too theoretical). This course is comprehensive, interesting, and Ben Sosnaud is a wonderful professor. If he's teaching it-- take it!
Somehow an easy course but with easy chances for a grade slip-up because of the grading of assignments..so in that sense moderately difficult. Not an intense course load, though. Overall generally useful.
This class is one that people take for a requirement, but Professor Sosnaud is a very good professor and makes the material interesting and relatable to different aspects of sociology that people may find interesting.
Pretty easy and you learn a lot about research methods. Definitely helpful if you are writing a social science thesis.
This class is pretty important if you're planning on concentrating in sociology and/or doing sociological research. It gives a good overview on how to properly conduct research, and the assignments allow you to get 'hands-on' experience. The workload is very manageable, as well.
It's a solid class. Prof Sosnaud will do everything you can to help you understand the material and apply it. It's an easy class and straightforward, but I guess it's essential to make sure all sociology concentrators get this basic information, even though it seems like much of it could be incorporated into other classes.
Ben is such a great guy and enthusiastic about his work; very approachable and willing to help.
Pretty painless
For a concentration requirement, this course is nothing to complain about. The material itself isn't that interesting, but it teaches you important things about research methods that I've found to be helpful in my other classes. Professor Sosnaud and the TF's are really great, friendly, and care so this class is great! Not the most challenging or intellectually engaging material, but a pretty painless concentration requirement.
This class is all about social science research methods (as per its name) and I would seriously recommend taking this class before embarking on any social science research of any kind. While the class is mostly upperclassmen sociology concentrator (because it's a concentration requirement), I took it as an underclassman with an interest in social science and I feel so much more confident about embarking on social science research after having taken the class.
This course is as easy as you make it. Concepts arte not difficult to grasp but are in fact extremely useful. Prof. Sosnaud is great - you can tell he really wants his class to succeed and enjoys the material (even if it can be dry at times, but hey, it's research methods).
This class is easy so long as you got to lecture. The teaching staff is amazing and it is an easy requirement.
Lectures clearly explain key concepts and terms, and sections taught by Jared were well-organized, helpful in clarifying readings and terms, and didn't feel like a waste of time, which is common among sociology sections. Assignments are tedious and not that helpful.
Although you are likely taking this because it is a requirement, it is actually a great one!  Both the professors and TFs are great and the information is presented in such a way that things are actually interesting and easy to get a hold of.  Definitely go to lectures and do the readings to get the most out of the course!
as long as you pay attention/ read the slides/ understand the examples this class will be a pretty light course. But don't take for granted it's easiness as a lot of people did because you could do poorly.
It was a good class but makes sure you pay attention to all the details in the assignments.
It's painless.
Easy, but really harsh grading!
This class is a requirement, so you're gonna take it. Super easy- literally never went to lecture and still got As on assignments. The class skims the surface of various research methods (interviews, surveys, ethnography) and says fairly intuitive things about them. 4 assignments (that involve some practice of the methods), a midterm, and a final. Feel free to take hard classes with this one to balance your schedule because it won't take much of your time. However, they pick good readings and example studies so  those will be interesting to you personally but not mandatory to understand for the exams.
This class provides a great overview of sociological methods and, as a result, I feel that it will be very useful for me in the future. I wish I attended lecture more, unfortunately I slept in too much, but it wasn't that hard to keep up with the course through section and the readings. It was a solid class, won't be the most exciting you've ever taken but will be useful.
It's not a bad class for a concentration requirement.
Class really helps you understand the methods that you could be employing for a thesis; very helpful and not too difficult/time consuming. I feel like I came out of it with a lot of knowledge, though.
For Sociology concentrators, it is unfortunate that this course and SOC 156 are core requirements. In addition to remaining rather basic, they are taught rather poorly If you are not a Sociology concentrator but need a methods course for another concentration's requirements, I recommend looking elsewhere if you want something interesting. This course's one redeeming quality is that it is very easy and requires little from you. I didn't do any of the readings and skipped many lectures but was fine. Still, I wish the department would figure out a better way to teach research.
Pretty unnecessary if you have ever taken statistics or methods before - much of the material is self-explanatory. This should be combined with Sociology 97 to make one course instead of two separate requirements.
Interesting and informative. Fun and engaging assignments
The teaching staff and interesting assignments make it a painless requirement to fulfill.
This class is a great way to get an idea of potential research methods you would like to creating a research design for a future senior thesis as well as get excellent feedback on how to implement these research methods. The teaching staff is really great at clarifying concepts, and my TF was especially good at facilitating class discussion. I would recommend this as a fifth class, but would also just recommend it for anyone considering doing research while at Harvard.
Manageable workload. However, the class constantly changes it seems. We had Sosnaud. Sosnaud and his team worked really hard to make sure the material you were getting was essential material, not superfluous. That said, it also means the class is just the basics. It'll get you thinking about how to structure a study, but you may need to look deeper into the method of choice to really be able to organize a thesis study.
This course was very well structured and the teaching team did a phenomenal job at ensuring students grasped the main concepts necessary to conduct research in the field.
Very easy
A painless way to get you methods requirement done for sociology or social studies. Nothing you learn in this course will blow your mind, but you'll get a taste for different research methods.
Despite being a required sociology class, it was extremely informative and much more enjoyable than I originally anticipated it would.
because this class was required, i thought it was going to be a bit of a dud. instead, it was fun, informative, and one of the best sociology classes i've taken!
This class is a bit boring but provides useful information.
I would recommend this course if my 'peer' was in sociology (it's required), or if he/she was in another social science class and wondering about different methods for analysis.
Great class for sociology concentrators who need to establish a background on sociological research and the strengths and weaknesses of each type of research.
I would tell them that this course is very useful on a pratical level for sociology concentrators but also introduces you to a body of knowledge that is useful and interesting to everyone.
You'll get out what you put into it.
Theres a fair amount of work but its really interestng and you really get a sense of the field of Sociology.
It's pretty fun even though its required!
This course offers great exposure to research methods for students interested in conducting social science research
It's a great introduction into sociology research methods--but I have the feeling it went a little easy on us
This course is the perfect introduction to sociology because it does a great job of acting as an overview of basic sociological concepts as a researcher, and teaching students how to start thinking from a sociological perspective. Lectures were always structured very well, with discussion at the end if there was time. While the papers in this class were sometimes time consuming, all the concepts were genuinely interesting, and none of the assignments were all that difficult.
It's a good introduction to important research methods that are not only very applicable in the social sciences but also potentially useful in business and other areas of study.
This is a great course if you want to learn about research methods for sociology. The topics are interesting and Mary Waters is a very kind and compassionate professor, who clearly cares a great deal about her work and her students. Section was very helpful, too. But, it's a heavy load for an elective -- so only take this if you have to. But if you do, enjoy!
The class is well taught, from Professor Waters, to all of the teaching fellows. The assignments are so helpful in understanding the course material. Keep up with the reading to stay engaged in lecture.
the readings are more interested than you would expect
Amazing teachers, great assignments, Professor Waters is super chill to talk to and get to know, overall excellent class
In the name of full disclosure, I'll start of by saying that I tend to be very opinionated about classes, and that I either love them or hate them. That being said, this course is definitely one of the worst courses I have taken at Harvard.First of all, it's a methods class, and while there are good methods classes out there, research methods in general is not the most engaging topic. But the setup of the class does nothing to help the scenario. The lectures have no flow to them; they're so bogged down with case studies that it's difficult to figure out what you're actually supposed to be learning. The actual content - research methods of sociology - could be delivered succinctly in a single short book or at most a class that meets for an hour a week. I also feel like this class does a poor job of communicating that these research methods aren't always clear cut and require a good bit of logic and critical thinking to set up. I feel like there was too much time devoted to trying to give concrete answers to students' questions, which obscured the fact that, in even the most well-designed experiments, researchers will have to think critically and creatively to overcome methodological obstacles. On a minor positive note, it got slightly better as the semester continued (by which I mean, the period after the third essay wasn't as mind-numbing.) And on the subject of essays, if you're anything like me, be prepared for yet another dose of boredom. While essays 3 and 4 had some meaningful content to them, the first two essays felt like I had gone back in time to the beginning of high school. The first essay was little more than a summary! Can we get something engaging please?The readings were split: some of them were legitimately good examples of the proper (or totally improper) methodology and/or actually interesting. The others really added nothing to the class, except possible content for the final exam.Of course, this class is mandatory for sociology concentrators. My advice: hope for the best, but prepare for the worst. I'm sure not everyone found this course as intolerable as I did, so begin with an open mind. After all, there are interesting topics that come up in class. (I just feel like they weren't capitalized on.) If you find yourself sharing my experience, just grin and bear it. If you're sure sociology is the right field for you, then just deal with the class and be happy it only lasts a semester.
Great class! Loved the assignments and it wasn't too difficult. Great overall. take it
It's a painless requirement and should not deter people from declaring sociology.
I thought that this class would be really boring, being a methods class and all, but it was actually pretty great! Mary Waters is really nice and an engaging lecturer. The methods are presenting using interesting readings and case studies, and the assignments are pretty easy but also really interesting- especially the ethnography and the in-depth interview.
Teaches you logical methods/ethics and uses really interesting sociological books to discuss them with.
It was good. Mary Waters is great and really knows her stuff. She made the lectures very enjoyable.
if you have taken stats or high level sociology courses before you will do well
It's not really needed unless your taking it for your concentration.
This class is pretty interesting, but sometimes the readings can be a little difficult at times.  However, the readings are for the most part interesting just like the class.
Only take it if you must!
If you are concentrating in any of the social sciences this class is very useful
Its a requirement so odds are you are taking it because you are a sociology concentrator. Take it because you have to. However, I should warn you that it is the worst required class you will be required to take. It basically proves that sociology is useless. If you are a sophomore don't take it: take something higher and more interesting. If you like that class and decide to major in sociology, this class will be just a bump in the road.
If you are a Sociology concentrator and you have to take it, it's not a bad deal. The course is pretty good overall and the TFs are exceptional. Course does not require too much work other than a few short papers and studying for the final at the end.
This class is fairly easy. The trick is keeping up with the lectures and readings; otherwise, there will be a lot of material to cover when the final comes.
Only take it if you are a sociology concentrator. Take it as a junior not because it's hard but because as with any dry requirement it might give you a skewed perspective as to how interesting sociology can be. That being said Professor Waters does her best with the subject matter she is given. Very thoughtful woman.
READ THE MATERIAL. It is interesting and helpful and why wouldn't you? Don't slack off on it!
It's a pretty good class overall, particularly because, if you're taking it, you're most likely taking it because you have to for your concentration
Great intro to research methods. However, if you have taken another research methods class, it can be repetitive.
This is a a sociology requirement that you can definitely enjoy.
you get to understand why people do what they do and the way some societies are shaped, there are also some great assignments that turn out to be pretty fun and rewarding.
Get ready for that final and go to lecture!
Please get ready for a very comprehensive list of the strengths of this course: 1) the teaching staff; Mary Waters is like no other Sociology professor that you will ever get. She is incredibly skilled, incredibly prominent in the field of sociological research, and incredibly approachable. With her heading this course, there is just no way you can be steered poorly. The TFs are also incredibly amazing-ESPECIALLY if you got Asad, who makes the content even more interesting, brings life to the section, and really helps in answering any questions that may exist from lecture. All of the TFs are really great though, so even if Asad doesn't stay on or if you don't/can't make it into his section, then you are still in the right hands. 2) Content-everything you learn in lecture, through the assignments, and in section will be incredibly interesting and worthwhile AND applicable to your everyday life (if not, then this wouldn't be a great sociology class then, would it?) 3) the Assignments! They are manageable, really engaging, and quite fun. One of the assignments split up into groups and we explored parts of Boston and then created a powerpoint on it. Another assignment taught us how to use certain websites that assist sociologists in their research. 4) Peers in the class--really welcoming and friendly! What else could you ask for?
This TF's in this class, Beth, Asad, and Jess, were wonderful this term. They were so nice and helpful and answer the confusing questions that often come up when learning the many new sociological terms and ideas. Make sure to start the first assignment early and to not over think it . The key to this class is being proactive so you can ask the questions you will have before it is too late (often needing to clarify the assignment/essay prompts with the TFs).Professor Waters is an honor to have as a teacher and she makes lectures interesting (if you like the topic) and is clearly very nice. You will get to conduct an interview with an immigrant and do your own local ethnography which are both really cool experiences. There is a lot of reading (Soc 128 and Soc 97 can be hard to balance together because of the reading), but the variety of the texts is good and I enjoyed them.
Mary Waters is the best professor ever
If you have to take this course, then it's definitely bearable. There is a lot of reading that you do and never talking about, and the final exam was rough. BUT Professor Waters is a great lecturer, and the assignments are interactive and useful.
I don't think this is one of those inspiring or interesting courses if a student is looking for one. It is a methods/ research design course you should take, however, if you're looking into doing a senior thesis or if you plan to do graduate work in the field of sociology and would like to conduct some research before applying for graduate school. The class is big, so the lectures can seem unstructured and the logic within the lectures kind of loose because the lectures try to cover a lot of materials and concepts within a very short time frame. The amount of work outside of class depends on 1) If you decide to do all the assigned readings 2) How closely you do the readings. If you do all the readings very closely, just expect to read 80-350 pages per week sometimes depending on the week. Sometimes you must read an entire book, sometimes just a very dense article.
Great class! You'll learn a great deal of the subject.
I would tell every Harvard student to try and take a course with Prof. Waters.  She is such a great lecturer and really wants for students to participate in lecture.  She uses real world examples that make what can be new and challenging information, easier to understand.  This course is a Soc requirement and for good reason, as a non-thesis writer I felt like I was being forced to do thesis prep for nothing, but in retrospect it was a great course and I learned a ton.
Pretty easy and interesting. I thought I would not like it because it is required but it was actually a pretty good class.
Just do all your readings, review all lectures and go to section. Results commensurate on effort, not talent.
This class was fantastic! It provided a really great introduction to the methodology that fuels social science research, and the skills you gain from this class are incredibly useful. The teaching in this course is fantastic, and the course material is always interesting. All in all a wonderful experience!
Assignments are fun if you let yourself get into them.Lectures are useful, go to them.Pretty painless concentration requirement, but take it as a freshman or sophomore to avoid redundancy (I took it as a junior and felt I'd covered a fair amount of the information in other soc classes).
I would not take this class on my own time if it was not a concentration requirement. You learn most of the content through other Sociology classes, so it feels redundant, but Waters is funny though.
Mary Waters is a great professor and she really tried to make lecture as fun and engaging as possible. There were a lot of readings but they were all really interesting considering the not-so-interesting subject matter. The assignments take up a lot of time, so be prepared!
This class requires a fair bit of memorization, but the course structure, assignments and teaching staff all work together to achieve this end. No assignment felt purposeless, and no reading was arbitrarily assigned or overlooked.
Go to lectures and take the assignments during the semester seriously!
The class is a good introduction to the Sociology and a pretty painless requirement. There's not much math or stat, so the course mostly focuses on the key concepts and research methods of Sociology. The first two papers are a bit difficult, but the final two papers and final paper are much more manageable . The beginning of the class is very term-heavy so pay attention in lecture and section. After the midterm, the course picks up from there as you study more qualitative methods like ethnography, which was the best part of the course.
Do the readings
I would recommend this only to people who have already taken sociology courses they loved and are set on concentrating on sociology - ie, only people who need this as a requirement. It does not make a good elective or a good introduction to sociology because the material covered is SO basic.
Only take it if your a Soc major, otherwise it's not very useful or interesting.
This class is required for a reason- you learn a lot, and it is necessary info. you will probably use in the future.
I didn't really like the assignments (easy, but tedious). Readings are very skippable. Class is skippable. I did enjoy the final assignment, which was writing a research proposal because that's an important thing to know to do. Burak (TF) is really nice.
This course was excellently taught by Professor Waters and provided a great foundation for research methods in sociology. Required courses sometimes have the reputation of being dry and cumbersome, but this course was constantly interesting and engaging. The in class discussions were enlightening and applicable as was the course material.
It's a requirement, so you'll get a bunch of sociology concentrators in one room. It's a great way to meet future classmates. That said, I don't think this class would be particularly useful for students who just want to take it for kicks or to learn something. This is a well-taught course for the material that it has to work with (but to be honest, that material really limits the interesting nature of the course).
For a class that is required, this course is actually pretty enjoyable - the instructors make the methods aspect of the class pretty painless by contextualizing it all in very interesting real world studies and examples.
Maybe not the most gripping course, but interesting enough. Lectures are well organized, readings are for the most part manageable and intellectually stimulating. As far as concentration requirements go, this one is not that bad.
Professor Waters does a good job of making some dry material interesting and applicable in her lectures and assigned readings. I really enjoyed doing most of the assignments. Overall, it's pretty painless and fairly interesting for a requirement. The second half of the class is much better than the first.
I would take this class even if it wasn't required. The teaching staff really makes the class.
only take this if you are seriously considering sociology.  You learn a lot about sociological methods but it is not the best class to take if you are trying to decide between sociology and another concentration
It is required, but it is not bad. Pretty interesting subject material. A lot of reading though.
I actually think that with a little help this class could be very good. The teaching staff are excellent, the studies were on point and interesting, and the assignments were useful without being more difficult than they needed to be. They will take some time, but that shouldn't be an issue as long as they trim the useless longer readings from the syllabus and spread the assignments out more.
This class will teach you the basics of research in the social sciences, not only just for sociology.
It's a requirement, and it's not awful.
If you are interested in surveys then this class is useful.
This is an interesting class if you are interested in sociological research. Otherwise you might find it boring. The assignments are tedious but you can get through them.
This is a course for concentrators so you probably won't like it unless you happen to have a liking for sociological methods;
This class is definitely not easy- every 3 weeks or so there is a 4-6 page paper, and only one of them is really interesting. The others kind of feel forced/like pulling teeth. The final paper this year, which just involved summarizing readings for 15 pages, was also a huge waste of time. The material for the course, however, is really easy to understand and you've probably covered it in other classes. It's not a terrible requirement but it's definitely not very enjoyable.
Methods could be painful, but Professor Waters is great. The assignments could be difficult, but talking to your TF is critical. Overall, no one's going to master methods in a term: it takes a while so if you're interested in sociology, don't be discouraged! Topics covered are expansive and the last two assignments (a venture into Boston and interviewing immigrants) are great.
Well, if you're a soc concentrator you have to take it...if you're not, don't take it. It isn't that bad. Readings are not necessary, which can be frustrating. The assignments are pretty fair, spread out fairly well, and not too long. Some are really interesting and more hands on.
Be prepared to read a lot.
The class can be really tough at the beginning, but push through it and it definitely gets better towards the end of the semester. Waters tries hard to use interesting reading to liven up the material you learn, but regardless it will definitely be helpful in future sociology classes
It's a good class for sociology concentrator a because you learn all the different ways that sociologists conduct research, but I wouldn't take it otherwise.
Learn useful research skills; lecture can be interesting, but overall the course is not that engaging...
Only take this course if you are concentrating in sociology or desiring to learn research methods. And don't judge the sociology department off of this course only!
This class is a great introduction to most of the major methods used in sociology. It does not assume that you know any statistics, and we never use statistics in the methods. The focus is on how to design studies; not necessarily on how to interpret the significance of results. The class is not too much work, and it will help you appreciate the scientific approach used in the social sciences.
This was a good course to be introduced to qualitative methods in sociology, but did not necessary challenge or push the envelope. I felt like I could not tackle more complicated issues and I was just doing the basics.
Very easy, if somewhat boring, course. Professor Waters is an engaging lecturer and emphasizes class participation, and the section component isn't too stressful. If you're planning on doing any sort of sociological research for a thesis, or simply want to learn research methods, this is the course to take.
do the readings, they're actually really interesting. if you don't have time, skim lecture slides to prep for papers/exams
The workload is not light and neither are the readings but if you engage fully in the materials you will find that you will walk out of the course with some interesting tools and methods to use that are immediately relevant to the rest of your coursework.
This class is the most pointless class I have ever taken in the entirety of my academic career. It's like basic science in middle school. You don't even need the readings to understand what you are doing in class. Waste, waste, waste.
Assignments aren't too hard.  Too much reading though.
It is an interesting course regarding the content; it is not ideal to take this course as a graduate student, because the way of working differs a lot from undergrads which can be frustrating
It's a sociology requirement and you have to take it but this class is not representative of all classes in the sociology concentration. Other classes are much better and you WILL get through this. Do the readings and make sure you talk to your TF to make sure you understand everything that needs to go into your written assignments
Take it if you're sure about concentrating in sociology since it's focused on that. If you're not sure, try something a little more interesting so you don't waste time on a bare bones class. It's great for sociology concentrators in terms of being able to read sociology papers or books.
The readings in this class are very interesting, some are extremely fascinating. You'll find how interesting sociology can really be as you do the readings. But the fact that the course is focused on the methods of research, that's where some of the fascination gets lost. Learning so much about scientific methods and different ways of research can get dry and uninteresting. However, that's simply the nature of the course. And the class is not too difficult as long as you do at least some of the readings for each week and you keep in mind that this class is all about METHODS OF SOCIOLOGICAL RESEARCH. As interesting as the readings may be, make sure to remember that in the end you have to know what methods the author uses and how they conducted their research.
It's required, so just do it. But non-soc concentrators, don't take this
I wouldn't recommend this course to you if you aren't a sociology concentrator. If you aren't, consider taking your methods course in another department. I would have appreciate more hands-on work in developing data analysis and data-gathering skills, but I may have taken the wrong course for the skill set I desired.
Readings are very interesting.
I really enjoyed this class. Great introduction to research methods.
Professor Waters is a great lecturer! She's a professor who truly tries to get to know each one of her students and is very accessible outside of class. This class is very good, considering it's a requirement.
do the reading, it is interesting, but be prepared for the assignments to be more challenging than you may think
It's a pretty good course to learn the methods of sociological research. The readings are cool (sometimes unnecessary), and Waters is a quality lecturer.
one of the most organized and interesting sociology requirements
Expect to be committed to this course. extensive assignments.
If you have taken Soc 156 before this, then this class is painful and long in the tooth. Interesting reading material though. A lot of busy work.
This is class is awesome!! It is very helpful and applicable in the social sciences. Professor Waters is a wonderful lecturer and makes the use of the research methods discussed meaningful. Even if you are not a sociology concentrator this class will walk you through the process of doing research from a variety of perspectives. You don't need any math and the papers are not difficult-you only need to apply them to real life situations in order to do well.
The assignments are way too involved.  I was not planning on having to trek to Dorchester in the snow.
This was a great class. DO THE READING!!! It's never that bad and is always interesting.
This course will prepare you to think and conduct research like a social scientist and will be useful to anyone doing anything in the social sciences. I personally am not a sociology concentrator and have found this course incredibly helpful and interesting. Mary Waters is incredibly approachable, fair, and insightful. She manages to make the otherwise boring topic of methods interesting, vibrant, and lively. Though for people who do not have an interest in learning how to do social science research, this course might be not so helpful/interesting.
If you've taken Stat 100 or Stat 104, this class is a joke. Even if you haven't, this course is quite a cakewalk.
This class is very well-taught and while it is probably not the most exciting of topics on the surface, Professor Waters chooses material that is engaging enough that the talk about methods is bearable. Some of the assignments are harder than they first appear, so get started on them early, and don't be afraid to ask your TF for help!
Do not take this class unless you absolutely need to (i.e. its a requirement).  If you have any experience in statistics then you will constantly feel like you're in a remedial class where the material is extremely easy but the assignments are convoluted enough to not probe at your knowledge and let you do worse than you should... I WOULD NOT recommend this class.
This is a requirement, so my recommendation means little to Soc concentrators. If you'r not a soc concentrator, I wouldn't take this class since it is very much geared toward doing Soc research. But Mary Water is interesting (though you could just pick up her books to know that!)
This course is great. The workload is extremely manageable and everything is straightforward. What you put into this course is what you will get out, so ultimately, it is up to you how much you will enjoy the course!
It's a painless requirement. I found it to be very interesting, although I know my some of my peers found it boring. It's useful information framed in a very interesting way. However, section can often seem like an afterthought.
not all that interesting, but not too bad. it's a requirement
The assignments are very confusing, but its a relatively painless introduction to the Sociology department.
This is required, but the reading is really fun and the section leaders are awesome. My favorite class of the semester.
If you take the time to do the readings and attend lectures, you will learn a lot in this class. You are going to get out of it as much as you put into it.
good sociology course with interesting readings.
Since the course is an introduction to methods class, it has the potential to be a very dry class, but professor Waters uses relevant and interesting readings and examples to illustrate topics. The focus written assignments also expose you to the various methods of research.
Definitely take this class to see if you are interested in sociology!
Even though it's a requirement for Sociology concentrators, it is definitely interesting and I really enjoyed the written assignments.
You have to take it, so just get it out of the way as soon as you can.
Although the class can get a little dry at times, the assignments and section made the class fun. Professor Waters makes the requirement painless for sociology concentrators.
This is a course you would only take if you are a concentrator. Not really a good elective.
There is some busy work; you may feel bored with the class at times. But it really is helpful to have the obvious lessons sometimes, as you will stumble upon some information that elucidates your perspective on your own methods.
n/a
Although this is a required course, it is still a great course. Although the work load is a little on the more side, the course is overall very interesting and engaging.
The assignments take more time than you would think so start them early
It's a good class to take in order to get an idea of empirical work in sociology and Mary Waters is an awesome professor/person!
Professor Waters is awesome and makes what could be a boring subject very interesting. Very good for a requirement
This class is a great way to learn basic research methods used in social science. Totally painless. The lectures and readings are actually very interesting so I would suggest you don't miss out on those. You'll also know what's going on when the assignments come around. The assignments are actually quite enjoyable and give you an opportunity to do things you would not have done otherwise (explore a neighborhood in Boston, etc)
If you've taken any statistics, econometrics or fairly intense quantitative research class, you may find the ideas in this class a bit fluffy and unsubstantiated.  But overall the Professor and TFs do a great job and try to build a course that incorporates a variety of skill sets to learn about sociological research.
Only recommend if required for concentration
This class is a lot of writing.
It's a very solid class. Not particularly fascinating, but well-taught and interesting enough for a requirement.
It was an enjoyable requirement. Professor Waters is great, and the course material is interesting. The readings were a bit long and not always necessary to write the papers.
Mary C. Waters is one of my favorite professors I have had. She is extremely insightful and engaging as well as passionate about sociology. The course is not incredibly demanding, but is extremely rewarding.
The research proposal is really hard and I felt unprepared.
Don't take it unless you're a sociology concentrator (requirement)
Very well taught with a friendly atmosphere. Prepare to do a lot of reading and make sure you prepare for the midterm. Lectures were very interesting as there were always very relevant real world examples to go with the sociological theory that was presented. Mary Waters is a fantastic professor.
Soc 128 is not that exciting. A lot of what you learn is pretty basic and self explanatory. Lectures are fine, but nothing amazing. The assignments are decent. The readings, however, are pretty interesting. Don't take it unless you have to.
only take it needed
The course is required for the concentration. The course does not have a good structure and there are topics that do not seem to relate to one another. The midterm did not accurately reflect on how much class material I knew. The final paper is tedious but can be rewarding if you pick a topic that you are interested in.
It was a lot more interesting than I expected. The readings were pretty good and there is a solid amount of writing.
Considering it was a required methods course, this class was really enjoyable! The material was interesting and Mary Waters was a very effective lecturer. With the exception of the midterm, all assignments were manageable, fair and pretty enjoyable too!
It is a concentration requirement so you have to take it. It is a painless class though.
it is a good class being that it is getting an overall view of how sociology works, but definitely recommend that you already have taken a class before taking this one in the sociology field
This class was not memorable (most that I've taken as requirements for the Sociology concentration have not been either).  It's dry material, but if you want to learn research methods this is where you do it.  I'd say it's relatively painless for a requirement.  Having taken 156 first, I had already learned a good deal of the material so it's hard to say exactly how hard the class is.
Mary Waters does a good job of presenting what might be otherwise very dry material. Some elements of the course will necessarily be boring though.
Not the most exciting course and pretty disjointed at times, and knowing statistics is helpful. The contemporary readings are interesting and course is not difficult, but hopefully new methods will be devised to teach it in a more interesting and engaging way the next time. Nicole knows what she's talking about!
It's required for concentrators. You don't have a choice!
It's kind of dry but you'll learn a lot if you want to be a sociology concentrator.
This is a class that you, of course, are required to take if you want to concentrate in Sociology. It is not a difficult course, but there are 4 paper assignments, 1 midterm, and a 15-20 page final paper. The assignments are interesting to a degree -- they also depend on how excited you get about them. One asks you to go to a neighborhood and do an ethnography of what you see. If you actually go, you may find that you enjoy it! Mary C. Waters cares a lot. The lectures can be boring, more an embodiment of the topics of the lecture than of her job. The section leaders are all great. Overall, this will be a painless course. If you've not planning on doing sociology, I don't think this is worth taking. You could probably learn most of what we do in a few weeks on your own.
It's really helpful for people thinking about doing on-site research in the future.
Really not a bad class at all, and can actually be really fun at times. The reading selections are phenomenal.
This is a great class to learn about research methods.  The material we learn for this class will be extremely helpful for junior tutorials and for those who choose to write a senior thesis.
The course is well-organized and enjoyable. Lectures are OK, but you will get a lot out of the course on your own just by doing the readings. Prof. Waters and all the TF's are really great people - they truly care about making sure the students understand the material.
Although the title of this class sounds boring, it is really enjoyable if you are interested in sociology. I think it's great that the five assignments throughout the class were all different and all previews to what we will write in future sociology classes. Not only were the assignments helpful, but the examples for research methods were also very interesting.
If you have any background in research methods, DON'T take this class, it's very elementary.  If you are thinking about thesis field research and are a junior, it would be a great elective to take.
Its a requirement.  It isn't too bad but it probably won't be your favorite class.
This class is pretty enjoyable. The description sounded pretty dull to me, but it is actually a pretty interesting class and really relevant. I learned a lot of great techniques and my sociological writing improved exponentially. The hardest part of the class is the papers and they're not THAT bad.
The material is a bit extensive but very interesting; the class covers a lot of intriguing topics (i.e. racism), so come in with an open mind.
This gives a fair introduction to the different methodology you'll encounter within sociology. However, in terms of grading, they tend to overlook that this is an introductory course to both the methodology and style of writing-- especially considering that each assignment is learning a new methodology and having to start over as opposed to TFs expecting you to improve with each assignment even though each assignment is completely new.
The workload is overwhelming.
A great introduction to sociological methods.
you have to take it. Take it early in your sociology career because the material (methods) are crucial to writing papers in sociology and doing sociological research.
Find something you're interested in or the course could be boring. If you find something you're interested in it can be really interesting and helpful and you'll learn a lot.
I don't feel like this course prepared me to do research on my own or taught me that much overall, but it was extremely interesting and Mary Waters is a very engaging professor. I ended up taking this course as an elective, which I'm not sure is really worth your while, but it is a painless sociology requirement.
The readings are more important than you think.  After the midterm, just worry about getting your papers done early so you're not rushing at the end when everyone has 6 billion other papers.
It is a wonderful introduction to the research methods used by sociologists and other social scientists. I think the information can be applied to all social sciences.You get to do cool assignments that put you out into neighborhoods in Boston and have you manipulate data online. It was a very rewarding class, albeit challenging at times when getting used to the online technology.
painless, be sure to start on your final paper earlyish
It's required if you're a Soc concentrator, so just bite your tongue and get through it. Don't take this class if you're not a concentrator. It's not worth it. There are a couple of books worth reading, but I ended up not knowing how to answer the question "what did I learn in this class" after finishing the final assignment.
Covers useful material; Waters makes even the more tedious topics interesting.
I would tell them that it is a very good course for an introduction to applied sociology, but that they should either want to concentrate in sociology or be interested in how to do sociology, as opposed to being interested in sociological topics; I do not think this course would be interesting to those without an interest in doing social science (though it is a very good course).
The title of this course is much more off-putting than the course itself
it is really fun and gives you the basics in social science research.
if you are a soc concentrator you have to take it. if you aren't but are interested in soc you could take it but i wouldn't recommend it just as an elective.
This course was a lot of fun and had moderate work. The teachers are great.
For a require course, it could be so much worse. So, so much worse.
Very useful for people who want to pursue things more in depth in sociology.   Helps you look at other studies more critically.
Even if this class weren't required for my sociology concentration, I would've still taken it. Fantastic class.
Take it if you're interested in pursuing sociological research. Otherwise, its not really relevant
It'll change the way you look at something as simple as a survey and force you to think critically about the ways we conduct social research, even in our daily lives.
Sociology concentrators: it is not as painful as you think it is and you probably will end up enjoying it
I would recommend this course even to non-concentrators.  It is the best overview of sociology that the department offers.
While a class on methodology might sound dry, this class is actually really interesting, and it got me excited about doing sociological research.
This class is a great introduction to social science research methods, regardless of your concentration. And the readings are relatively interesting!
Take this class, even as an elective. It is extremely interesting and the workload is reasonable.
The assignments and section were great, and I feel that I learned quite a bit overall. However, the course definitely didn't change my life or enlighten me.
It's a great class that covers a range of interesting topics.  It is a great course to taken even if you're not a concentrator.
gives great background on how to conduct research, especially if you plan to write a thesis
Very Helpful
pick easy questions for the papers and then go on autopilot while writing them.  If you're thinking while writing them, you're doing something wrong.
it gives you a great overview of sociology
Take this course only if you're a sociology concentrator.
This class is a great way to learn more about research methods. I would recommend it to anyone in the social sciences who is considering writing a thesis.
Definitely a class someone should take if they are interested in Sociology but are not sure. A good way to learn about research.
It's fun, which is surprising because it is a method's course.
Take this if you are going to concentrate in sociology. If not, you should have a really good reason why you want to take this class.
It's a great class to take if you're thinking about sociology
You don't have to take notes on the reading, since you'll get the basic information in lecture.
Get into your study because it can be very fun.
not too difficult. lecture is boring though.
Good research experience if concentrating in sociology.
the most challenging but also the most stimulating part of soc128 is the research project. it was also the most frustrating because the class, overall, was disorganized and it felt like the staff was only one step ahead of us. generally, though, we were given good guidance through it. lecture is dull (although i don't know how one would make a methods class interesting) and overall not very important.
Take if you are interested in doing some sort of research and/or are concentrating or taking sociology as a secondary.
If you do Sociology you have to take it, otherwise avoid.
You have to take it so you might as well do it sophomore year to get it out of the way. It's honestly as fun as you make it.
It was a lot of work because of the research component that required us to reach out to the school community.
Hands on learning is useful but the final paper is difficult if you don't get a good group.  Good luck!
This is an easy course, and the assignments can be annoying, but if you do what you're supposed to, it is a relatively painless class.
The lectures are extremely unhelpful, and the teaching staff was unfortunately not very helpful in guiding our research direction. However, you do get experience in carrying out your own research project, and in a group. You could get similar experience, though, from a smaller, better structured course such as AAAS 199. The size of this course and the lecture format were not conducive to a good experience.
The class itself is a breeze and easy to sit through.  This year's course was much different than past years because the teaching staff was different.  The project was fairly involved and required a significant amount of outside work - more than I expected.  I feel that overall it did help me and prepare me for future research, and I appreciated the chance to do more than just one interview, focus group, etc.
The course itself doesn't require much work; however, because you have your own group project, you and your peers dictate the amount of work and time you put into the class.
The group project is the worst part.
You learn so much about how to conduct field research. People who are considering sociology should definitely take and see what it is like to be a sociologist - and some people would love it and concentrate in sociology indeed!
it's pretty useful if you plan on doing sociology/social science research
Unfortunately this class was one large group project, so if you get placed in a bad group it be pretty horrible for you.
Too bad that it's a requirement.
complete assignments on time
the techniques you use can be useful in any field, and its an interesting class even if sociology is not your major
It is a lot of work but you learn a lot about research methods.
very time consuming working in group. can be rewarding
Soc 128 is a class that teaches you about the sociological research process with a hands on approach, allowing you to explore a sociological field of your choosing.  It is an alternative style class that is rewarding if you get invested in your project.
Easy class but don't take it unless you have to. Most of what you learn is pretty basic in my eyes, and doesn't require an entire semester to learn.
only take this class if you have to- it is far from interesting. however, if you do need to take it, it is manageable and an easy requirement for soc
It requires a lot of work but it's pretty interesting and you get hands on experience in doing research, with lots of guidance from the TFs/professor.
If you want an intro to the practice of conducting sociology research (and need/want lots of hand-holding along the way), this is a great course.
In theory, the class is a good idea. I think it is helpful to give concentrators experience conducting a sociology study. However, the actual class was very time consuming because of the additional assignments on top of the research project. If the course continues to have the same structure, make sure to stick to the deadlines for the project. Complete your data collection as early as possible so that you have plenty of time in the end to evaluate it and write the final paper.
This class lets you put into practice the sociological research we often read about.
The research project this class is centered around, if you choose a topic that sincerely interests you, is very rewarding. The compilation of data through interviews or surveys is extremely interesting, and the analysis of the data through the 30 page final paper was one of the most rewarding assignments I have completed at Harvard.
Don't take this class unless you absolutely have to!
This class is extremely boring. Lectures were not engaging. I still don't know if I've learned the "right" way to do research.
Unfortunately, this is a requirement. Thankfully with the CUE responses, the format will change and the class will be a better and more enjoyable way to understand sociological research.
Take it! Paul Chang is a great instructor, is really nice, and has lots to say from his own research experience. It's not too difficult, but it's hard to make the material any more difficult than it is already anyway. Paul tries really hard to make the course lectures fun (with success) and the readings are excellent. Try to take other courses with Paul as well!
This course is a very good way to begin a sociology concentration and provides a helpful overview of types of research in the field, inspiring you to think about your own research in the coming years. Many small, practical assignments keep this course interactive.
This is a really easy way to fulfill a social science methodology requirement (I'm speaking as a Social Studies concentrator), and the assignments/midterm are very, very straightforward.  
But for someone who has zero knowledge about social science research, this is definitely a nice place to start.

Professor Chang is an enthusiastic, nice professor who is really into what he studies---but since it's a methodology course, we're limited in the actual interesting things we can cover. Despite that, I feel that Professor Chang puts a lot of effort into making each method interesting and applicable to any future research.
Super easy, straight foward and helpful. Take it.
for sociology concentrators this class is required, but honestly this is a very painless requirement. the midterm wasn't bad, and the final project was actually kind of fun. its all about what you put into this class, that being said if it wasn't a requirement i probably wouldn't have taken it.
It is very easy and straightforward.
This tasted like a requirement the whole way through. I really like Professor Chang, and there was a lot of material that was helpful. But it wasn't particularly intellectually challenging until the final, which was a group paper so that diluted its success as an assignment.
This class was very engaging and I enjoyed it more than I expected.  It helped me inform my concentration choice, which was great.  The readings are cool and worth reading.
It's mandatory, people barely show up to class and I wish it were better because it's meant to teach us the foundations of sociological research.
If you have to take this class as a concentration class, take five classes. Some of the material is very rudimentary and you will not feel intellectually fulfilled if this is one of only four classes. I wish I had known that before I took this class.
Easy social studies methods requirement. Paul is a great lecturer, but this course was not a rigorous examination of methods.
If you no exposure to research methods, Sociology 128 is a great introduction. The data assignments are low-pressure and extremely effective at teaching various concepts. However, the final project threw many people for a loop.
Soc128 is a good intro to social science methods, but isn't very well structured, at least not at the moment. A lot of the material we cover pre-midterm could be covered in a shorter period of time, readings could be more focused and relevant and fewer (students are daunted by 3 huge, dense social science readings, and end up doing none--maybe 1 a week might be more effective), and spend a larger amount of time writing a legit research paper. Learning by doing. Covering all the material is important, but it's arguably just as important, if not more, to learn to APPLY the methods to actual research, and this is simply not possible when we have 4 weeks to do this (when you discount Thanksgiving and all).
This is a course that every student should consider taking if they would like to be more aware of how the statistics that we see every day are derived.
It's a good class, but will probably teach you concepts you already have learned. As far as required classes go it wasn't bad.
Even though it's a requirement, Professor Chang makes this class as fun as he can. He has a very humorous and engaging lecture style. Assignments were very straightforward, you knew what you were being asked to do.
Don't take this unless you absolutely have to. If there is still a final group project, run away as fast as you can! The midterm and the other assignments were very easy, and the presentation of the material was superficial. If you are considering taking this for social studies, I would highly recommend you find another methods course.
Take this class if this is your first class in sociology. You will really learn what it is like to work in this field.
This course is relativey painless and teaches the material very well.
Generally an easy course with a fun research project in the end that allows for exploration of personal interests
light workload, doesn't require much except showing up to lecture and listening. the group research paper is kind of a pain not b/c it's a difficult assignment, but b/c  you can't choose your groups so just hope that you get a good team
it's actually the easiest class ever
As a Social Studies concentrator, I was required to choose from a list of methods classes, and this one was very painless and actually quite helpful for qualitative research methods. I now understand how to do interviews and content analysis. Quantitative, not so much.
It's so easy to slack off...don't do it!
Pay careful attention to the syllabus.
This class is incredibly easy yet super useful. The research skills that one learns through class are so important if one is considering conducting research in the future. The teaching team is fantastic because they are so enthusiastic about the material and provide a lot of help and assistance. It's a little frustrating that so many people don't go to lecture because what we go over in class can easily be read on the powerpoint. It's pretty low time commitment...until the group project at the end. That was pretty difficult but a good opportunity to apply the course concepts.
I took this class when I was still trying to decide between Social Studies and Sociology as a concentration. It is great that it counts for Social Studies credit. I learned about the techniques sociologist use in their research, but learned about nothing in depth. I did not like how I didn't have to go to lecture because most of the class was just definitions from a powerpoint.
I took this class as a requirement for my secondary field, and as far as requirements go, this wasn't a bad class at all. The material was easy, the assignments weren't hard. The group project at the end can be a bit of a pain, but overall this class will do an effective job of teaching you how to put research methods into practice.
