RUN!!!!
I loved this class. It's rare to find a class at Harvard that actually applies directly to our lives. I found the lectures and readings engaging and  the assignments thought-provoking.
not a lot of HARD work - but there was a lot of work assignments in general
No section, fun lectures, lots of movies, easy assignments
It's such an interesting topic especially because of the inherent controversy regarding social class and culture in America today.
This class is fun, and has one of the most relaxed environments on campus, while still discussing serious class problems that persist in the U.S.
Great way to learn about class!  Good class for when you have a heavy load and need something manageable (though it may eventually fall to the bottom on your priorities list because its so easy).
Interesting subject matter. Good professor.
Depends on who I was talking to.  If I was talking to someone who doesn't want to do any work and slack off, I'd give this the double thumbs up.  But if I'm talking to someone who wants to learn and use that Harvard tuition, I'd tell them to stay away, no qualifications.
It is great for some personal reflection.
It is interesting and easily managed.
Fun class with interesting papers
If you know nothing about sociology, but are interested in class in America, you will love this course. Make an effort to get to know professor Nelson by going to office hours because the course is large. He's a very interesting person and will be more than happy to talk to you about sociology.
Interesting and engaging, but it did not shake me and open my eyes the way I hoped and expected.
The professor was friendly and funny, but he didn't seem hugely invested in the class.  I wish that students would have been more engaged with the material.  Also, I would have liked to talk about the readings more in class.  I enjoyed them, but there wasn't a lot of motivation to read them until the papers were due.
know that there's more work involved than advertised, but on a weekly basis it's pretty easy.
I think this is the kind of course that every Harvard student should take. It really makes you grapple with society and its implications on your experience, as well as showing you different sides of the study of class. I really do believe that Harvard students don't leave Harvard with knowledge of the rest of the world (that's why we call it the 'Harvard bubble') and that this class is a great way to open one's eyes.
The material and the readings are interesting, but the lectures leave something to be desired.
Easy and fun
Personal journals should not be taken lightly, they really sneak up on you!
It's fun, especially if you are coming from outside of the sociology department.
You will be writing a total of eight 3-5 page papers, including the take-home assignments.  The amount of reading isn't bad, and it's actually not really necessary to do all of it, although it is necessary to do some of it to do the assignments.  The concepts learned might feel a little abstract and subjective, though.  This might make doing the take-home assignments difficult, since you may find yourself grasping at very little when you get to that point.
Great course material and a great professor.
Very interesting and manageable class
The course does not quite give you a nuanced understanding of the material at hand.  It is effective in broad strokes, but doesn't delve deep enough.
I would recommend the class in that the assignments are not difficult to do -- they don't require you to think particularly hard, but there are so many assignments. If this course had fewer papers, I would recommend it with enthusiasm.
A lot of writing is involved.
there's a lot of work to do but it's easy and straightforward. just time consuming.
It's a great course if you're really interested in gaining knowledge about the powerful role of social class in people's lives. It also pushes you to critically analyze the role that social class background has played in your life, which can be rewarding.
It is a pretty good class but a ridiculous amount of work.
the class is very very interesting. if you take it, make sure to go to the lectures. the readings are easy to skim and interesting. there is a LOT of writing though.
The subject matter and content is really interesting.  It makes you see society completely differently.
It's definitely an easy course, but it is interesting as well. The journal is a good assignment, and you can be really creative with it, especially if youdon't put it off until the last minute!
The lectures were a bit boring and there was a lot of writing for the course.
This is the most disappointing class I've taken at Harvard. The subject matter is both interesting and important, but trust me, the way it's presented in this class you'll learn nothing. A complete waste of time -- and not even especially easy.
Although this class entails a lot of writing, it is worth it because the subject matter is so interesting.
Great course, will challenge your personal class and culture beliefs and perceptions
It is a class that is tough in terms of making you more conscious about your true social class. Also, there is a lot of writing!
i would tell future students to ask the Professor exactly what the assignments for the course will be before enrolling.  He was very vague on the syllabus and a lot of students were not prepared for the amount of work and writing this course turned out to be.
Its a pretty cool class. You learn things that you can see in the world around you and in your life. Most importantly its pretty easy.
The material is important and interesting, but the course is poorly organized and the lectures leave a lot to be desired.
Not that hard, and relatively interesting, but so much work.
This is a great class to take. The work is very manageable and the material is interesting and applicable.
Take this class if you really want to write a lot about class and culture.
This class is so interesting; it digs deep into issues that are very close to students at Harvard - wealth, culture, upbringing, socioeconomic status - how class shapes your life.  In some ways the class messes with your mind - I found myself reevaluating my wardrobe and my family's living room and how my roommates talked to see how that demonstrated our class position in society.  However, this was always very interesting.  A fascinating class and a great introduction to the field of sociology to a non-soc concentrator.
It's a great elective and the professor is chill and fun.
Interesting but a lot of writing.
This is a very informative and thought-provoking class. There are, however, far too many assignments, which eventually become redundant.
A great deal of writing and a lot of assignments -- be prepared for quite a bit of work, and difficult grading.
The lectures are usually very interesting, and the reading are great. But some of the time, I felt like I'm not learning anything and that the sections really bring the course quality down.
This class is very writing intensive.
I took this class as an elective and hoped it would be an interesting, yet fairly low maintenance class.  It was completely the opposite.  There was WAY too much work for this class, especially considering that the majority of the people taking it were not concentrators.
Love learning about class and culture? Want to dissect the Harvard student body in every way shape and form? Want to answer those burning questions about why certain classes do the things they do? Take this course immediately!
Get ready to write. a lot.
Great organization of material. It did a wonderful job at opening up your eyes on the publicity regarding social class in America.
Great course, easy, just be prepared to write a ton, but the papers are easy also
An interesting class with consistently fun assignments
This is the best class that I have taken at Harvard. It was an incredible experience and it forever changed the way that I view American culture and human behavior. Professor Nelson is engaging and very friendly and knowledgeable. The readings are actually entertaining, the papers are almost enjoyable to write, and the subject matter is always interesting.
Great intro sociology class! Work on the journal early.
The professor is very nice and knowledgeable. The course material is engaging an relevant. This is a worthwhile class to take if you want to understand class and culture in America. There are quite a bit of papers but they are manageable and are all short.
This is a really great class. Nelson keeps it real and talks to you about class like how it is. He's pretty funny and takes a genuine interest in his students. This is a great environment to talk about the great American taboo: class. This class would really impact how you think about class, especially your own class. in addition, it makes people think deeper about why America ignores the underclass and why the middle class is the norm. Themes of domination and hegemony are common in this class. Everyone should take it.
Work on the journals early.  Despite numerous warnings, you probably won't, but you really should.  Also, prepare to see the people and the media around you very differently.  Class and culture is such an interesting and eye-opening subject to study, especially at a place like Harvard.
Nelson is great, really approachable and understanding.
This class is fun & you'll get to talk about class at Harvard a lot!
The readings for this course were very interesting and varied; I actually enjoyed reading them. The assignments were also great. The short papers and journal allowed for personal reflection, while the midterm and final involved critical theory. The combination proved really interesting and productive. The lectures were also engaging, especially for a 1.5 hour class.
It's a good course in that it makes you think and be aware of how class is actually a huge thing in America. Some of the reading are great and the sections are pretty chill. However, tons of writing. The journal should have sufficed as a final. Too much busy work. The papers are all pretty similar.If you want a course on Bourdieu, this is it.
Interesting topic. Not as life-changing as I expected, but still did get me to look at the world and the objects in it in a different way. Some very interesting topics e.g. about the rise of the educated class and the decline of old money, old money vs. new money, some cool readings relating to Harvard and prep schools, etc.
This course is interesting, but not particularly engaging. Yes, I did leave as some of the other Q guide evaluations claim with a sixth sense for the salient features of class and culture in American culture, but the entire course felt quite retrospective. It's all about looking back on how things are. Underscore that. It relies upon what I believe are outdated descriptions of the world as it is. Therefore, it was interesting, but I didn't find it particularly education. Being prompted to look around me, though, and see class structures in American society was valuable and enriching.
A MUST for all American students to learn more about their own society and for international students to get an unparalleled insight into the American society. This a GREAT COURSE and I can highly recommend it to all of you! It will definitely change the perception of your personal environment! Take it!(Yes, you have to write a lot, but it is fun to reflect on your own class background and you won't regret taking this course!!)
Get ready to blow your mind away!
The professor is enthusiastic and the lectures are generally interesting. However, the work for this class very quickly starts to feel like a chore. There are three short papers, a take home midterm and final, and a journal, and this adds up to about 55 pages of written material (my journal was 20 pages). I don't mind writing, but the prompts felt repetitive, and by the end of the class I felt like I was just going through the motions. That said, this class did make me more cognizant of the myriad ways class differences can manifest, so I think it succeeded in doing what it set out to do.
The journal will be enjoyable if you start it early, and office hours are really laid-back and fun, so definitely participate as much as you can in this class! The work is very doable, and the readings, with a few exceptions, are not heavy or overtly academic which also helps make this a great class!
Most of the readings are helpful for the short paper assignments, but don't necessarily have to be done before lecture. The lectures are amazing and present the information in a straight-forward and intuitive way, which makes them great substitutes for the readings themselves if you don't have time. Do the journal EARLY. It becomes so much easier after you have already gotten 3-4 entries and have started thinking in terms of class.
This class is an amazing, fun, interactive way to think about society, class and culture at large. You are pushed to think about yourself and the class structures affect our way of life. So much self reflection, so wonderful!
3 Short Papers (3-4 pages), take home mid-term (10 pages), take home-final (10 pages), 20 2-paragraph journal entries, fun sections. If you can handle that, you can take this class.
Come with an open mind and be ready to see your daily life in a whole other light!
This class is amazing! It really does what Professor Nelson establishes in the syllabus: you will look at the world differently, and recognize the ways that class and culture are prevalent in everyday life.
This class is great! If you're into social theory, it's got it! If you're into a more practical application of social theory, it's got that too! This class will give you an interesting perspective on class in America and will give you a great toolkit for analyzing class and culture in everyday life.
This class is great, but be sure to get clear instructions from your TF.
On a weekly basis, this class was very enjoyable and manageable. Lecture was 90 minutes but didn't feel too long. Prof Nelson is engaging and his lectures greatly enhanced my engagement in and understanding of the subject. The subject is fascinating because it not only relates to your own life but also aids in shaping the way you see society and the intersection of class and culture in general. While this class did not completely reshape my life, I definitely have found myself applying the concepts I learned in this class to the way I view things in general.
Slightly more work than I anticipated, but a fairly interesting class overall. Wouldn't say it changed my outlook on class and culture, as Tim Nelson promised.
The class workload is manageable, Professor Nelson is kind, and the subject is interesting. Overall, a good sociology class (and good introduction to sociology), although it's not the greatest class.
This is a great class that will certainly change your views on yourself, your peers, and how you interact with one another. You certainly don't have to do all the readings, but a lot of them are very interesting anyway. Professor Nelson is great and very patient and welcoming at his office hours. The TFs are also very vested in the course and the students.
It's a great class if you take the journals seriously and actually talk to Professor Nelson; he's awesome. Otherwise it can seem repetitive.
This is a great course to start thinking more critically about class structures and how culture is shaped and reinforced. Tim is a great lecturer and section, despite the wide range of how much people actually care about the topic, is engaging. Material is readily understood since readings are to-the-point and interesting. Be ready to reflect and write a bit, but it's all fun and rewarding. The class is not difficult academically, but is challenging because of how much it makes you think about your own background.
Easy but the assignments can be frustrating with a lot of personal reflections/applications of what we learn in class. I didn't understand why we had 3 essays, a journal, and a take-home midterm/final when they basically seemed to be asking for the same thing of explaining the theories and then applying them to your life. I also thought the information was sometimes repetitive or overly simplistic - e.g. the lower class is like this, the middle class is like this, etc. Nevertheless it's a relatively painless class with some interesting readings.
If you are the type to do alll the readings for every class, you will love this one. If you're like me, the lectures really set the pace of the course. I was frustrated because I felt that the lectures reiterated the same topics over and over, which would lead me to not want to do the readings, and then I'd really be lost. You get to talk about a lot of fun topics and the assignments are interesting. I'd recommend this to sociology concentrators, but I would not choose to take this class again, knowing what I do now about my own learning style.
This class is valuable for what it teaches. It is especially relevant to life at Harvard and gives you new ways to think about society.
Great class with interesting content. There are quite a few assignments (3 essays, 1 take-home midterm, 1 long term project, 1 take-home final exam), but the grading is pretty lenient, so that makes up for the amount of work. I would recommend this course.
Easy, and a bit boring at times.  The ideas are cool, but the class gets very repetitive. You end up going over the same 3-4 topics all semester.  I was just looking for something a little more, and maybe even a bit of a challenge.  This is my first soci class, and I likely won't take another.
Very good course that gives a good overview about class society in the US. Pretty high workload, but it's absolutely worth it! I would absolutely recommend this course
This class was definitely interesting, but there are soooo many assignments.  What I recommend is keeping on top of everything especially during the last two weeks of class because within one week--you have a paper, a journal of 20 entries, and the final take-home exam.  When you hand in the paper and journal, you get the prompt of the final take-home exam that same day, and it's due the following week :(.  It's definitely an interesting class, and I promise that you will never think about class and culture the same again...especially at Harvard!
A relatively easy class with easy and straightforward assignments. Materials are also enlightening--it teaches you how class is so pervasive in our culture. Good, solid, interesting class.
This class isn't difficult, but it has a lot of busy work (you end up writing three short papers, 20 journal entries, and a take-home midterm and take-home final). The assignments were generally interesting and fun to do, but they do require time, so keep that in mind.
Great course.
Nelson is really cool. Get to know him outside of class. Sarah (TF) is great but be careful of the way she grades. Set a schedule for yourself on the scrapbook assignment (two entries a week, or something. Definitely put aside time in your calendar). The material is interesting, for sure. Easy(ish) class.
be prepared to write and reflect extensively on your experiences with class and culture as well as those of others. The course material is pretty comprehensive which also means that the work and readings are extensive but overall the class is very enjoyable.
This was an awesome intro to sociology.  If you are at all interested in learning about social class in America, or about social class differences in general, definitely take the class!
Interesting material and I initially thought it wouldn't be too exhausting. But found myself writing papers for this class more frequently than expected.
If you're interested in learning about the way the unspoken world about class works, take this class. It completely alters the way you see your friends, extracurricular activities, and essentially, every aspect of your life.
You'd better prepare early for papers and journal,they are not hard but take time, if you want to do good job,be concern about the time!
Professor is awesome, readings are super interesting, and lectures are enjoyable.
This class will mess you up. After rereading one of my first drafts for an essay, I realized I was slightly Marxist. It will bring very strong but hidden feelings to the surface regarding class.
This is a really intresting class. It will make you rexamine your own social class and the way you think about class. I would recomend taking it. The workload is managable and although lectures are a bit long (1.5hrs) Nelson throws in film clips to keep you entertained.
Amazing class. If you are at all interested in socio-economic diversity, this is a must.
This class is so much fun! It will take over your life. The course work is very light (there are only three papers), but you will find yourself talking about this class to everyone, and seeing social class EVERYWHERE!
Everyone should take this class! Awesome professor and interesting material covered!
Most classes that are this easy with this low of a workload are accompanied with extremely boring material and a boring professor. Soc 155 is not one of them, as professor Nelson and the course material are great.
It's a good introduction to Sociology if you've never taken a Sociology class before. Professor Nelson is great, and you will learn a lot about class. Lastly, I would just add a warning to start the journal entries early!
By the end of the semester, I was dreading lectures/readings--I think it had potential to be a more interesting class, but I honestly found it really boring.
This class is absolutely terrific. The professor is extremely open for little chats after lectures and is accessible through Twitter as well, the lectures he gives are always well organized and polished, the workload is more than manageable, and the material drives enthusiasm and interest.
This is a very chill class that you can easily add on top of a heavy workload. It engages with very interesting material and the coursework is very easy.You only need to understand broader themes/concepts an not necessarily have in-depth understanding of each reading. The TF's are also very helpful and will guide you through any material/assignment you need help with. Lastly,professor Nelson is awesome! Super enthusiastic and entertaining. Don't miss lecture!
This class is great if you want to know more about how the world around you works and how you are influenced by things that are far beyond your control. It's incredibly enlightening and helps remove some of the mystery behind why our world is the way it is. If you're interesting in understanding why the classes are all so different, this is the class for you!
This class is great!! I actually looked forward to the lectures as one of the high points of my academic week. If you are at all interested in issues of class distinctions in the US and how they are formed or in American culture at all, I would highly recommend taking it.  Not only are the lectures really interesting and enjoyable, but the assignments are actually sort of fun and allow you a lot of creativity to think about where you fall in America's class hierarchy.
Take this course - it really challenges the way you think about and view the world around you.
It's a very interesting course that really changes how you look at the world.  Go to lecture.
Nelson is a great lecturer who picks really good real-world examples to show how the sociological theory applies to your life.  The readings are all over the place in terms of density and complexity, but you are only expected to understand their main points.  The assignments are very manageable (often fun) but they get graded by different TFs, so getting a good one is crucial to your enjoyment of this course.  Try to get Sarah as she is undoubtedly the best among the course's teaching staff.  She even bought coffee for class so that we would show up on time and participate!
It's rare to find a course that isn't too difficult, but still provides the opportunity to learn something. This is one of those courses. I felt I learned a great deal without ever being overwhelmed by the material. Professor Nelson's lectures are also great.
The is an amazing class--one of the best I've taken at Harvard.  Professor Nelson is so enthusiastic about the subject and Eunsil is an amazing TF.  The readings are great and really interesting. TAKE THIS CLASS!!!
This course doesn't require a terrible amount of work -- mainly an open mind.  Also, start the scrapbook early.  Actually, do it.
Be prepared to write about the same thing over and over again.
Professor Nelson is awesome sauce. And my TF (Sarah) was great and super accessible as well. This course is so relevant to our lives, especially at a place like Harvard where there's such a range of classes represented.
This class challeneges your previous thoughts on class and culture, and it allows you to explore these thoughts through various paper assignments and a journal kept throughout the year.  The material is interesting and the workload is very manageable.  Definitely a class you won't regret.
An amazing sociology class. The readings are fun, the workload is moderate, and the lectures are engaging. You'll learn a great deal about yourself -- and it might be a little uncomfortable.
Easy enough. The papers are short, but there are many! Beware. Good way to open your eyes to the extent class influences the way you and other people approach the world or do things in the world.
Tim Nelson is the best. This class is fun and interesting, definitely take it.
Everyone should be required to take this course.  It is thought provoking and just one of the best things I've done at Harvard.
This class was awesome. It will teach you to see the world in a different way. However, be warned, this class is a lot of writing!
Very easy course but section was awkward and lecture moved a bit slowly. Overall happy with what I learned and Professor Nelson is devoted to the class which is nice.
Harvard is one of the best places to analyze class distinctions because the place is rife with clashes between people of different classes (especially since the financial aid initiative was enacted). The place is literally a sociologist's playground and breeding ground for issues on class structure and differences, as well as the prevalence of structural and hegemonic social reproduction. If nothing else attracts you to this course, you'll get the chance to talk shit about final clubs and other social inequalities at Harvard in an academic setting.
Lectures are really interesting, and you'll learn to think differently about your own class situation.
I very much enjoyed this class.  It was my introduction to Sociology, and is a good class for anyone- from concentrators to people who want to take just one class in the discipline.  Holly, my TF, was enthusiastic and available to help me at any time.  The course material is interesting, and you will not leave without a changed view of the world and how you fit in it.
make sure to do all of the readings and if you can't, at least get a majority of them done. also, dont wait until the deadline to start the scrapbook
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  It's not hard at all, but you get what you put into it and if you take the time to digest the material you really do see it everywhere.
get ready to look at yourself critically
Do the reading. It makes the take home midterm/final so much easier.
It's a great fourth class, easy to follow and engaging. All the concepts are very applicable to reality; you think about your everyday life in new ways. You get to write papers about yourself and about The Official Preppy Handbook and watch documentaries like Born Rich.
It is an insightful and fairly easy course in terms of grading and difficulty, but the assignments are extensive. That's what makes this course very time-intensive.
loved the lecture, but did not like the sections very much. it will be up to those in the section to decide how to engage with the material
This class will challenge you to think about how culture is inextricably tied to one's class and how that affects one's life chances. It's easy to blindly follow the general framework that working hard leads to success without considering the advantages and the adversity that people are presented with. This class makes you a bit more of a Marxist.
Very interesting class
Might be rewarding for someone who discovers sociology, but boring for a sociologist. The themes treated in this class, however, are great.
it's a great class!
Don't have to go to lecture to do the assignments.
As I'm sure many others will state, this class has a LOT of writing. My issue is not with the writing itself, per se, but with the quality of some of the assignments. While the midterm and final exam had questions that induce you to think about the material, the short papers and journal do not. As a result, you feel like you're writing about frivolous things half of the time -- and when you're writing a cumulative 50+ pages for this class, that's a lot of frivolous writing.
This class has great materials, great assignments, and is very easy on the whole. Professor Nelson isn't the strongest lecturer, but his slides are very straightforward.
great class! changes the way you understand social class in society. take it! the work load isn't bad at all
A lot of writing-start the scrapbook early
Soc 155 is INCREDIBLE! The readings are interesting and the course totally relates to the real world. Even now, I will see things outside of class that will relate to something we talked about in lecture and it's just cool to see our course material in the real world.
There's a lot of writing and it's pretty disorganized. It's an interesting class and all of the work is easy, but there's a lot of it.
A lot of work, but the lectures and readings we have can often lead to reflections on one's own life as we try to understand different aspects of class. Thus, this class can be challenging on a academic and personal level.
Easy but interesting
This class makes you think about what's happening around you in American society--the aspects that you have always taken for granted.  It also makes you question what makes your tastes the way they are.
The ratio of how much work you put into it to how much you'll get out of it is just not very good.  There were far too many assignments for the amount of learning that actually took place.  The section component was essentially an hour that could have been spent writing one of the myriad papers or journal entries that come packaged into it.  Emerging with a decent understanding of around three buzzword concepts that I did not already have buzzwords for but certainly already had an understanding of via common sense made this class feel like wasted time.
Take it now
make sure you get a good TF, I had one that barely spoke English. The class is interesting and easy, there are very few assignments, but they are essays so be prepared to write.
Easy material, lots of writing
Take the course knowing that the lectures will be dry sometimes (the days when there is not a video or other media shown, mostly). If you wonder why you do what you do or like the things you like, this course will help you interpret that and potentially grow because of it.
There's a lot of written work, but it's interesting.
I would tell them to check the class requirements to see how many assignments are required throughout the course.
Professor Nelson is laid-back, which makes for an enjoyable course where just putting in enough effort lets you learn a lot and gets you a good grade.  Do readings and attend lecture - it's interesting material and with both you can get the most out of the course.
There is a very heavy workload at the end of the semester.
You will write a LOT but it is not necessarily hard; a lot of it is reflecting on your life. Do the scrapbook early!
The class is one of the most interesting classes that I have taken!
Definitely a lot of writing (5 5-pg papers, 20-30 journal entries). The writing is generally not very difficult though. The material is generally pretty interesting and may seem like common sense, but often we do not realize much of it. Overall, a bit time-consuming but good class.
You will learn a lot from this course. If you are curious about the lives of WASPs or the Nouveau Riche, this is the class you want to take. Also, you gain a new perspective about things that are related to social class.
This is a really fun course. You won't want to miss a single lecture.
This is a relatively easy class, if you make sure you follow the assignment schedule and readings.  There are a lot of assignments, and they tend to take a lot of time.  Making sure you schedule yourself to write your journals will make it much easier as the term progresses because you won't be panicking at the end of the semester.  So if you are someone who plans ahead and works in increments (and not leave things to the last minute), this course will be a fun, engaging, and relatively painless experience.
This class gives you an entirely new perspective on how class affects your life.  It is a fun class!  However, it is also A LOT of work.  Do not take it if you are not willing to write A LOT!
Definitely changed my life
Just be prepared to see class in a whole new perspective.
This class has a lot of engaging and unique assignments, interesting lectures, and really makes you think differently about the social world in which we live.
Don't take this class if you just want to affirm your position at the top of the class hierarchy. Don't be one of those girls in lecture who whispered loudly to her friends about how her parents belong to multiple yacht clubs. Nobody really cares.
Contrary to what the syllabus might say, it will probably not change your life.  If you have taken classes on urban sociology or on inequality in sociology, many of the lectures will be on things you already know.  Otherwise, it's not a bad course, the assignments are doable and the readings are interesting.
This course definitely opens your eyes about the world of class that is all around you.  The name of the course is somewhat misleading, for it focuses primarily on class, not so much on culture. The subject matter is interesting and the grading is forgiving.  But don't wait until the last minute to do the scrapbook at the end of the semester. It takes forever to finish!
Tim Nelson is a great teacher who provokes interesting questions and conversations.
The course teaches you a lot about social class in the U.S. I really enjoyed the class material of the course, but there is a LOT of writing involved. If you have a heavy-written workload as it is, I would not recommend taking this class on as well. Also, if possible, keep up on your journal assignments. It'll be a lot easier in the end.
The material and readings are very interesting. There is a good deal of writing but most of the assignments are painless.
