I really enjoyed taking this class as my first sociology class! Matt is so interested in the material and cares so so much about his students. The readings were very interesting, and the assignments were all manageable while still pushing you to explore your own communities. You definitely get out what you put into this class, but there's so much that you can get out.
This class is so much fun! It is not hard but is really rewarding and interesting if you dedicate yourself to it. Also, I really recommend getting to know Professor Kaliner - go to office hours!! There are definitely some people who don't try too hard in this class, but if you try, and go to lecture and participate, you will get to know the other students that care and it is just great! If you are going to take any sociology class, take this one 100%. Kaliner is A+ and the subject material is A+.
Course material is interesting and broadly applicable. A great intro sociology class
Matt is amazing. I'm not sure if he's teaching this next year but he loves the subject matter and makes the students love it too. Lecture is often interactive and he really cares what we have to say. The topics were all really cool. Assignments were fair. A gem. Loved this class. 10/10 would recommend.
This course is appropriate for concentrators, but if you are a non-concentrator who only wants to take one sociology class, this should be it. Professor Kaliner does an amazing job making the class accessible and hires great TFs, and you get a concentration-level sociology class without the expectation of previous experience.
This class brings you in contact with real life and real people in a way that other classes only talk about. It challenges you to travel outside of the classroom to gather first-hand data on topics you're interested in, and to have conversations with people you've never met before.
Take this class!!! Kaliner is an amazing lecturer. All the TFs are great. The material is so interesting and the readings are not that bad at all. Section is really fun. You get to learn about so many different aspects of community life in such a cool way. This is probably my favorite class I've taken at Harvard.
Great course!!
Great class that will make you think about new ideas
this is my second class with matt kaliner and i honestly loved everything about it..the lectures are fun, engaging, and matt is super interested in what all his students think about the weeks topics..the reading is super interesting and was something i actually looked forward to doing, you have freedom with the paper topics which allow you to explore topics you are genuinely interested in...just a great class for soc/non-soc people alike
the material can be a little boring if you aren't into community, cities, etc
This class was my favorite class of this semester! Extremely engaging and relevant to everyones life. DO NOT MISS AN OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE THIS CLASS. IT IS AWESOME.
This class had really good readings and course staff. But, the class lacks structure and guidance. The lectures don't do a good job of really delving into the texts and get off topic very quickly. You learn interesting things, but I feel like most of what I learned I got from the readings not any other part of the class.
I enjoyed this course, but lecture was honestly a waste of time. It was basically a giant discussion section of 60 people and freshman just talked about their communities in high school. If you did the readings, you didn't learn anything new.
This is an incredible class. Any chance you have to take a class with Matt, you should. He is super kind and caring about his students. He sincerely wants to learn about all of his students (which is so rare at Harvard). The subject is fascinating, and everyone has something to say about it (which makes the discussions really really cool).
This is as must take class at Harvard. Matt is by far the best professor I have had at Harvard. He cares about his students so much, and his investment in each and every student ris unmatched by any other professor at Harvard. the material is also so interesting and matt generates great enthusiasm for the topics.
This class covers really interesting topics and has a lot of good readings -- the workload isn't that bad, and the papers allow you to apply the readings to something you're personally interested in, which is great.
I would like to tell future students that this class is an amazing experience to delve into sociology with incredible readings and enthusiastic lectures. I did not even know that I liked sociology before this class, and now I think that I am going to concentrate in it! The professor was truly incredible and very accessible to discuss topics and assignments.
this class is super interesting as it covers topics relevant to the real world, and the staff such as Kaliner and Roland are super enthusiastic about the course and very willing to meet outside of class with you
Matt Kaliner is easily one of the best people at Harvard. You will never have a professor who cares as much as he does about his students. If you have the opportunity to take any class with him please do so.
Professor Kaliner is one of my favorite professors that I have had in my time at Harvard--you should definitely take one of his classes if you have the chance! He maintains a very manageable workload for the class and most of the assignments are fieldwork based, so you get to go out into the community and do your own research as the basis for your paper. The course content (Jonestown, community responses to natural disaster, etc.) is also super interesting. Overall, great course--would definitely recommend!
Take this class! you learn an amazing amount about community and the society we live in. Matt Kaliner, when you get to know him, is the most caring, understanding, selfless, and passionate educator. He is a diamond in the rough at harvard and you will consider yourself quite fortunate to take anything he teaches.
This is a really cool sociology class to take, even for people who aren't socio concentrators or have never taken a socio class. Interesting class on friendships, cults, workplaces, neighborhoods, etc. Professor Kaliner and the TFs are very thoughtful and good at explaining concepts. The papers aren't too bad, but they're pretty frequent. Once you finish one paper you basically have to start working on another one. You get to conduct your own research.
There will be none :( but I would say to go to Kaliner's office hours because he's a really interesting and kind and thoughtful man.
Easy class, as a sociology concentrator i found much of it boring and not very in depth. However it's a fun and easy intro into the field if you're concentrating in anything else!!
Definitely my favorite course so far in my two semesters at Harvard. Highly recommend going to office hours with the professor and the TF; they want you to do well in this class, and as long as you do your part to complete the work with good effort and on time, you'll be fine. It helps to learn how to write sociology papers, though, since a major part of the class grade (more than 75%) is based on essays. However, the best component was going out to both campus places and off-campus places to do brief research (just a few interviews or an hour of observations, for example) for the essays.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, because of the teaching of Professor Kaliner. If you have a chance to take any of his classes, don't hesitate. The material is interesting in its own right, but he makes it directly relevant to undergraduates. The assignments are fun and enjoyable, as are the readings. I have no complaints and only wish I'd taken a class with Kaliner earlier in college.
One of the best classes offered at Harvard. Kaliner is one of the best if not the best professor to get to know because of how interesting he is and they conversations you will have but still relevant to class material.
Kaliner cares so much about his students, and this class is the perfect example of that
This class is interesting and relatively laid back.
Take if you want to take a Sociology class.
Great class, not too much work and Professor Kaliner is a wonderful Professor!
fun, low pressure class with great and friendly professor and TFs
It is an interesting course. Kaliner is cool and cares a lot about the subject and students, but the papers are unnecessarily hard
This sociology class is awesome if you want to learn more about the concept of "community" in the US. Through studying how communities form, respond to trauma, support each other, and can be affected by policy and social change, you really learn about more than just community. I gained an appreciation of race and class relations. I also improved my argumentative writing skills. The teaching staff is super supportive. Definitely take advantage of resources like the Departmental Writing Fellow if you are struggling with your papers!
Keep up with the readings! There are a fair number of pages assigned each week, and you will get so much more out of the course if you do them.
The material this course covers is extremely interesting!!! The readings are manageable and fun. Professor Kaliner is really engaging and if you like classes w/ participation you will really enjoy it.
Stay on top of the readings and this class will be extremely rewarding. Matt Kaliner does a great job of making sure the class is grounded in our own experiences while offering a rigorous curriculum. Also, be sure to attend office hours. They're fun and low-key, but they can also be serious if you want them to.
This course is fantastic, and the professor and TFs are too!  I think the concept of community is very interesting, and this class offers a great way to examine community in multiple ways.
This class is really wonderful. I would argue that there is no professor who is more engaging, passionate, supportive, and caring than Matt. He really goes the extra mile for his students. He emphasizes discussion in his lectures - though speaking up isn't necessary. I really recommend taking any of his courses. I was genuinely excited to come to class every day.
I really enjoyed this class! You get to learn about a variety of different types of communities, and the readings and discussions are very interesting.
This class is an excellent elective for sociology. The material will make you think about community in new perspectives and give you interesting case studies to think about.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. I love prof. Kaliner's teaching style and the subject is so interesting!
TAKE THIS CLASS
This class is a very engaging and thoughtful way to further understand something that is very important to many people.
Take it! It was a great class, Matt was super engaged with the students, and the content is fascinating.
It's very different from your average lecture class, in a good way!
This class is a great way to learn about community. Professor Kaliner is an incredible teacher and I will absolutely be taking more of his classes. The discussion in lecture is useful, inviting, and very open. Papers are graded fairly and section is never boring.
