Good course for the first year in sociology. Could be less helpful to those who did masters in sociology or other social sciences.
In this class, you will get out what you put in. Ensure you have a sense of what you want to get out of the course and ensure the time you spend is geared toward that end.
very fun and great start to your graduate career! If only all my classes were going to be like this one!
The instructor cares an enormous amount about her students, and goes out of her way above and beyond for them.
This course will prepare you to ask hard questions about the efficacy and trade-offs of all kinds of sociological research designs, quantitative and qualitative alike. If you're lucky enough to take it with Professor Viterna, you'll also be taking this introductory course in the truest sense of the term because every seminar is full of anecdotes and advice perfect for G1s trying to navigate real-life academia.
Keep a notebook of your ideas. Write down research questions, thoughts on design, and your hypotheses.
This course is an introduction to professional American sociology.
This is an important class for learning how to do what you're supposed to do in grad school.
The topics covered in this class and the research proposal you'll write are the ideal way to start your first term of the program.
This is a really fun course, but this is also a course that you might have to grow into.  What I mean by that is: get used to participating in unstructured discussions, get used to blunt feedback, and get used to maybe talking about things that perhaps are over your head (e.g., what the heck *are* the metatheories of sociology, anyway?).That said, after getting used to it, you'll likely find this a really great course.  The unstructured discussions become fun when you realize a sense of confidence in taking what you think you should take out of the readings and having the gusto to put it out there on the discussion table and perhaps have Frank shoot it down (in a friendly way) and correct you.  Frank's blunt comments are actually a blessing, as they are more than blunt-- they are thoughtful and highly insightful.  They get straight to the point and truly help you improve your work.  Frank is a great teacher and his rare lectures are very helpful.  Moreover, Frank's design of the course is very thoughtful: the readings are scoped and chosen well and are quite interesting, and the assignments are very diverse and indeed relevant to your actual future as a grad student, as you work on important skills like reviewing and proposal-writing skills.
It is a helpful class if one already has a background in sociology (and thus can use previous class content as examples for the fundamentals learned in SOC 205). The class is less productive if one does not have a specific research interests or familiarity with the current literature directed towards studying those interests
I would tell future students taking the course that classes run much more smoothly when everyone participates. I would encourage them to do just that, because they'll get much more out of it.
This isn't an undergraduate course. Things aren't going to be laid out for you each week in terms of what's evaluated and expected. That is okay -- you're here because you can figure these things out.
Prof. Viterna doesn't try to dazzle new grad students with the discipline of sociology.  Her introduction to the practice of sociology is clear and realistic, exposing both the beautiful and the ugly -- and it's an invaluable orientation for future practitioners.
Taking this class in the same semester that you're preparing fellowship applications is really useful as the assignments build toward the final assignment for the class as well as fellowship applications.
Jocelyn is a very helpful and informative professor who will not BS you and you can ask her about anything. The class itself was well structured and the readings and assignments gave a strong introduction to different approaches to research design.
it's great if you find your research puzzle through this class
I think that the class varies depending on who is teaching it, but I would advise students to be open to the things that they do not know about Sociology and be willing to learn from the experts. Some of the themes seem relatively basic but they are important and this class allows everyone to get on the same page.
It's a great way to learn about the discipline and the department (and think about research) in a non-threatening environment.
It really helped me think about desigining theoretically-based and theoretically relevant research.
Frank creates a very comfortable environment for exploring issues of research design.  This course offers a low-pressure environment in which to ask questions.
This class was really helpful for developing ideas and learning the fundamentals of quality research even if the assignments seem tedious at times.
This course is incredibly necessary. I know many more advanced students are envious of my cohort for having the opportunity to take this course because in many ways it allowed us to skip past many confusing months of teaching yourself lessons on how to write a research proposal.
This is the best practical class I've taken in graduate school.  You can't help but learn a lot from taking it, even if you feel like you're in over your head at first.
The course offers a lot, and is accessible to almost anyone with a basic sociological background.  Although I would warn that some concepts will not be explicitly explained in class and require outside work to understand.
This class is very helpful and it definitely gave me a better understanding of methods.
It is a good class that orients you to different methods of sociological study.  It will be difficult if you are not familiar with the material already but it is a class that you need to take to get your feet wet.
Every social science department at Harvard would benefit from a required course in research design such as this one.
This is a really good class. In the department, I think there is an acknowledgement that a few select courses will provide the foundation to "thinking like a sociologist." I think this is one of those courses, and a very appropriate introduction to professional research in the discipline.
Nothing that I have not already said in this evaluation. The course was definitely necessary. I learned many many new and important things.
This was my favorite class of the term. The work you put into it is definitely worth it.
This course was an excellent introductory graduate course that really helps teach you how to do real research.
great course to practice your research skill
Try and do as much of the reading closely as you can Use this class as an opportunity to explore your 'best' idea, not to double dip with another class. I felt like I really got a lot out of the course because I was working on the idea that brought me to grad school. Utilize your peers
interesting and laid back, good for learning big ideas
Be sure that you use this class to suit your needs. Use it to develop your QP or a research paper for publication.
To think of the class as an opportunity to hone their thinking about their QP and get a handle on how to professionalize themselves in the Harvard Department.  Also, to enjoy reading many papers by department faculty in the context of the course.
This course provides a great introduction to the discipline of Sociology. Among other things, I appreciated the opportunity to read and discuss some canonical articles and be taught the "unwritten rules" of the discipline.
