One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard!  Sociology 24 was fun, engaging, and productive.  Professor Beckfield does a fabulous job putting the course together and facilitating the discussion each week.  The discussion format was fun and informative.
This class provides a wide range of interesting and engaging readings but the level of discussion achieved in my experience in the class was not where it should have been to engage the material well.
The readings are great
The books you read are great and the discussions in class really help you to understand the material in the books. Because there is no lecture component to the course, though, I sometimes felt like the course lacked some direction and structure. More input from the professor and some form of lecture would have improved the course greatly.
A good way to get some information to back up your opinion in conversations about inequality. I feel smarter for having taken this class.
If you don't mind writing a four page response paper every week then it is a great class with really interesting reading.
This is a fantastic course for anyone interested in poverty in America.
the class is eye-opening.
Much more difficult than you would expect, but exam was not too hard
This class provides a great introduction to important sociological questions and concepts. Professor Beckfield creates an engaging learning environment that makes class sections fun, productive and enriching.
I could have gotten the same from simply reading the books on my own time.
Sociology 24 is a lovely class that I'd definitely recommend! I definitely gained an understanding of how inequality works in our nation and Professor Beckfield is a great professor, one who is obviously very experienced in the field and genuinely cares about his students learning and engaging with the material.
You're going to learn a lot. This has been one of my absolute favorite classes all year and has given me a lot of food for thought. I feel like I understand the way the world works a lot better! Also, the thought of daily response papers may be daunting initially, but it ends up being very helpful.
A great reading list on the most recent ideas regarding social inequality
It's a good class, and the reading and discussions are definately worth while.
Take it if you're interested in sociology; I personally realized the field really frustrated me, so I wish I had assessed this earlier.p.s. the one response paper per lecture is a PAIN.
I loved doing the readings, and the response papers weren't too bad, but the class and discussion felt really disorganized at times.
I didn't find that I got a lot out of the discussions in this class. It might have been more helpful with a smaller class, but the way the class was configured this semester was intimidating. For an introductory sociology course, there were lots of upperclassmen. It's intimidating to speak up about touchy subjects in a class of nearly 40. The response paper assignment, though, was really helpful. And Professor Beckfield and Ben were both really helpful and available outside of class to talk about term papers and sociology in general.
It was not the best choice as an introductory class to sociology. As a novice in the realm of sociology, I often felt intimidated or left behind during discussions.
This class is awesome
There is a good amount of reading and writing involved in the course, though some of it is really interesting and worth writing about. Also, the class focuses more on different approaches to thinking about social inequality than discussing the realities of the inequalities themselves.
Dont be afraid to speak up. There will be people in this class who attempt to run things, but they often have no clue about what they are discussing. You will learn the most from what the professor says and the readings but not from what others say in the class.
You will get the same out of the class as if you just did all the readings yourself.
Great course to take in that the material you learn is not what you read but rather what is discussed in class and from each other while in discussion in class.
If you are someone who is thinking of concetrating in sociology and writing a thesis, this course will introduce you to some of the classical works in the field of social inequality.
This course is a great introduction to issues of inequality, ranging from class inequality to gender inequality and many topics in between. It is also entirely discussion-based, despite its potentially large size, which is great. The daily response papers are time-consuming but definitely helped me to stay on top of the reading and better participate in class discussions. Professor Beckfield is open to different ideas and encourages participation, and the syllabus includes a diverse selection of literature. Take this course if you're at all interested in the inequality that surrounds us.
There's a lot of reading.
A definite if one is interested in social inequality in the U.S.
This course really is enjoyable to take, largely because Jason creates a relaxed atmosphere for discussion where understanding things feels like what's most important - as it should be! Be prepared for a substantial reading load and a large research paper due at the end of the semester, but also know that Jason and the TF Ben are really nice people who'll help you however you need.
I enjoyed this class! Be prepared to do a lot of reading and a lot of work. Some people didn't like how this class was taught because it is mostly discussion. At first, I didn't like it either and it takes some time getting used to. But after a while I appreciated having this style of class at Harvard because there are hardly any others like this. Topics of reading range from race, wealth, and gender.
If the course is smaller, it could be very interesting and effective, but at its current size it is simply to big to work well.  Also, be prepared to find new ways to look at issues that seem obvious at first, otherwise it will not be interesting.  Lastly, sociology is based a lot on data.  If you don't like reading about data, don't take sociology.
This is so great for a background in social inequality. The structure of the course, with two response papers a week and a final paper is also great because you stay on top of the reading but never feel overwhelmed with work.
The workload is pretty high, but all the readings are very interesting, and the sections are some of the best I've experienced. the final project is entirely up to you, so you can shape it to your interests. it really makes you a more knowledgable citizen, so if you have any interest in societal issues, i would definitely recommend it. also, if you're interested in sociology, this gives you a great sneak peak.
it is a lot of reading
Great class, great professor.  Very much an intro course, though -- not designed for upperclassmen
Do not take this class unless you have an interest in sociology.  There is a lot of reading involved and a lot of information to process with each reading in addition to response papers being due with each class.  If you do take this class, start the term paper a month before it's due, at least.  Professor Beckfield is very accessible outside of class, and I'm sure that I would have enjoyed this class more if I wanted to be a sociology concentrator.
I often felt like the only one in the class willing to air less popular opinions -- or, perhaps, the course suffered from a degree of network closure. The course would benefit from a greater range of opinion, but by the nature of the name it may only draw a certain segment of the population.
Start working on the term paper a lot earlier than you think you have to.
It is easy to get complacent and let others talk.  But it is a very open environment so feel free to get in there in discussions.
This class will give back what you put into it. If you do the readings and participate in class, there is much room for lively debate and learning.
It's a great course if you've taken a sociological methods course. If not for my lack of preparation, this would have been one of the greatest courses I took at Harvard yet!
Professor Beckfield is a great person. He really cares about the students - he learns everyone's name and reads all of our work. The course is not very demanding and it is great to be pushed into the field so early (to get experience in the field, through writing your final research paper).
This class was good and interesting but there were some problems. The reading and the sections were interesting but the lectures were really not engaging or helpful. We often got sidetracked with things that would not be on a test and it just felt very disconnected from the course material we were working with. The readings (a lot of books) were interesting, but we didn't even get a chance to talk about some of them in class because we spent time on useless material.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading....a whole book of about 200 pages or more per week. But it is really interesting and the professor is so interested in his students. Definitely recommend the class!!!
Although a lot of reading, you do learn a lot and it is very interesting.
There was very little structure in this class, especially in lecture, which was extremely confusing and frustrating. Professor Beckfield is clearly knowledgeable and passionate about the material, however, lecturing about it is not exactly his strong suit. In lecture we often got stuck on one topic and would spend much of class veering off into some strange discussion that left things much more confusing than before. If it were not for the section component of this class, I would have really struggled to grasp some of the major concepts and themes and make some very important connections that were crucial for the papers, midterm, and final. In the end, there is a tremendous amount of room for improvement in this course, which is unfortunate because the subject matter is great.
This is a good introductory class.  Be prepared for a lot of reading, and you should do the reading in order to participate effectively.  The lectures tend to be somewhat disorganized, even though they are informative. Professor Beckfield gets through everything he wants to get through, but not necessarily all within one lecture.
awesome readings!
Worst class I've taken at Harvard. Lectures a complete waste of time, with information that is seemingly unrelated to anything in the MASSIVE amount of reading (which is never reviewed/alluded to in lecture). Thank god for the outstanding TF team.
Challenges and reconfirms notions about racial, income class, and gender inequality in America.  Very manageable readings and very informative if  you give the time to them.  Some people find lecture tedious b/c Jason lets everyone ask as many questions as they want and then we discuss them rather extensively - but other people really liked that...so...take it and find out what you think!  The subject matter/readings are worth it alone.
A lot of readings.
I believe that students who take this course should come with a pre-course investment in learning about social inequality; I would be sure to stay on top of the readings according to the course syllabus and not the pace of the section.
Interesting readings; lectures are somewhat redundant in reiterating what's said in the books
This class has some very interesting readings that will re-shape the way students think about income and racial inequality. The gender inequality section is less fully-developed and there are some serious organizational problems. If you are self motivated to work through the readings and material thrown at you you will have no problem with this class.
You can get as much value out of reading the books on your own as you can by taking the class. I don't feel that lectures or section contributed much to my understanding. They were more of a comprehensive review. The teaching staff can be unfocused and frustrating, but the course material is awesome. I am leaving this course much more aware of how inequality in the United States originated and perpetuates, and I think this information is very valuable. So, I guess all in all the course did what it's supposed to do. Make sure to keep up with the readings, because there are a lot of them.
It is impossible to know what to expect from the class assignments - they seem straightforward and relatively simple to prepare for (i.e. do the reading and review lecture notes) but then are graded very harshly with no explanation as to where you went wrong.
This course was FANTASTIC. The readings were fascinating, the professor and TFs were the best I've had so far at Harvard, and it is a challenging but very worth-it and manageable course. If you have ANY interest in inequality in the United States, TAKE THIS COURSE. It will shift your perception of the world and how society works. I cannot heap enough praise on this course. I wish I could take it again!
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. It is THE WORST class I've taken at Harvard. Sections are frustrating and Jason can't finish one single lecture. The material is interesting, but to sit through a semester of class isn't worth it. Just buy the books and read them yourself.  PLUS they take attendance in lecture, which meant that you didn't even have the opportunity to escape the torture that this class was.
Office hours are helpful
It is a lot of reading. But most of it you'll enjoy. You can even learn a lot from the less exciting authors like Granovtter.
The material is interesting but the class needs some structural changes...shop it but evaluate it carefully. Changes need to either turn it into a discussion-based seminar of sorts or a larger lecture class that might have time for questions at the end...this year there were a lot of attempts to force discussion in a large lecture class
The topics covered are about your life past, present, and future and that of everyone around you. You gain insight to possible answers for questions that many people think about but don't stop to answer: Who gets what and why in society? Who determines this? Do life-chances depend more on class or race? How does a modern marriage work with kids and a job? If you find these questions intriguing and worth exploring (they are) like I do then definitely take this class with a very understanding laid-back and well-studied Professor.
This a a good introduction to sociology. The readings are generally interesting and provide varied viewpoints and concepts that deal with social inequality. That being said, it can be a lot of reading. The class has recently been reformatted, which has made it more freshman-friendly (e.g eliminating weekly response papers and other assignment modifications). If you're a freshman considering sociology this is a great course to get a feel for the field.
This course was extremely profound and enriching.There is a lot of reading, so it's probably best not to take this course with other courses with a lot of reading. Some of the realities about the inequalities in the world will blow your mind.Take this course, even if it's just to make yourself more aware.
A lot of reading a week. Very easy to get behind. Very interesting though if you do have time to really read all the books and understand there ideas.
Jason is a very nice guy but the lectures were hard to understand and very slow. We wouldn't get through very much. They grade essays really difficult but don't give good directions on the essay prompts. Sections were kind of pointless too. And you have to read nine books or you will not do well. The thing that stinks though, is that the topics are REALLY interesting, you just have to be prepared to teach yourself.
Great class. Professor and section are amazing. A lot of readings, though, and make sure you keep up or they'll pile on.
This is a good class for getting an overview of what inequality is to different people and what it actually looks like. Be sure you're genuinely interested in sociology though so you can push through the readings since you are expected to read for every class.
Great readings, but just read them on your own, you would probably learn more. Lecture totally did not connect with any of the readings / make connections between readings. Fewer readings and more detailed treatment of readings would have been nice too.
Sociology 24 was a wonderful class to take pass/fail, as someone who has an interest in the subject matter but had never taken a sociology class.  After taking this course, I am now considering pursuing a secondary in sociology.  The readings are fascinating, section is not too demanding, the two essays are fun to write and neither the midterm nor the final are that difficult if you've been paying attention in class.  Take this course -- P/F or for a letter grade -- if you want to know more about underlying factors that affect individuals' life chances in our society.  I highly recommend it!
I found this class interesting, and the sections particularly rewarding--but lectures are extremely disorganized.  Also, the books and the lectures offer very little room for variation in interpretation, which can be frustrating.  I wish there had been more discussion on potential policy intervention to deal with inequality rather than mere discussion on its presence in the US.  Still, the books are interesting, covering racial, gender, and class inequality.
It is very basic and geared towards freshman
It is a great course! If you are interested in an overview of theories and themes surrounding social inequality, you should definitely take this course.
The topics covered in this course were really interesting and this class is part of the reason I'm considering being a sociology concentrator! One thing to know, the lecture material is totally different from the readings so you actually do have to go to lecture for sure. Also, readings start off easy (you get like, 2 weeks to read Unequal Childhoods which was awesome such a good book) but then out of no where you have to read like, a book a week. The books were all really interesting so there's something, but you can't afford to fall behind.
This course is ideal for freshman, but not really anyone beyond that (including sophomores, depending on concentration and exposure to sociology). It provides an introduction to some basic theory, methods and sub-fields of sociology but does not challenge one intellectually. Had I taken it as a freshman, I might have been much more likely to be interested in the class and would have gained a great deal more from it. This was my 5th class, and was perfect in some ways for that role. The papers are easy to write, and the exams are not too difficult either, but the reading are not covered in too much depth in lecture. It is generally a little difficult to pay attention for all of the lecture, because the ideas presented do not seem neatly organized or clearly linked. Overall, take it if you are considering concentrating in Sociology and want to get a taste for how people in the discipline think about and analyze social problems.
This course is very interesting, and every person will find some way to relate to the material.
Jason and Asad are both amazing!
Definitely take this class. The discussions are enlightening and so relevant. The work load isn't too bad and books are super interesting. Professor Beckfield is great. I have nothing but positive things to say. My favorite class I've taken at Harvard.
This was a great class. It's a great intro to the department and the reading is all great. It's also a great fifth class because the grading is mostly P/F response papers and then exams that are very doable if you know the arguments of the books. There is a good amount of reading, but it's interesting and goes quickly. Jason led great discussion and Asad is a great TF!
This is a great course with an amazing Professor. I encourage you to do the reading too! There is nothing difficult about this course per se you just have to do the reading.
This class was absolutely eye-opening. The content was not only fascinating but as far as real world application goes, it was some of the most relevant material I've read for a class. Professor Beckfield and Asad were both some of the best teacher's I've ever had. Both were incredibly warm and friendly and had a great understanding of the course material and their students. The reading pace is a little unrealistic in my opinion, you'll be assigned 250 a week by the end of the semester. And there is a page long single spaced response paper due every class, which despite being a pain helped me stay motivated and on top of readings. You can mostly get by with strategic skimming and fill in any missing details from lecture.
This is a terrific introduction into discussions of inequality. Lectures are not that structured, but provide a great time to discuss as a class. Professor Beckfield is great!
This class is great. Jason is an awesome professor -- very approachable -- and he facilitates incredibly interesting discussions. The reading load is sizable but by no means overwhelming as long as you stick to a good schedule.
This course is amazing, and is definitely a must-take, even if you're not thinking of concentrating in sociology. It is taught very well, and has very good, interesting reading material.
This class is very engaging and can give one a new perspective on real-world issues that are rarely discussed in public.
This course is fantastic. The material is fascinating and extremely important. This course provides a solid foundation for an understanding of significant social issues and for further study in sociology. Also, Prof. Beckfield is wonderful.
Very good class. Lots of interesting reading.  Definitely take if interested in sociology, it's a great intro!
This class is really great for getting a baseline understanding for the varying aspects of social inequality. The books are interesting, and we had very interesting and lively debate in class.
Some courses actually change the way you look at the world, and this was one that did that for me. After four years at Harvard, I am so glad I took this course because it has not only made me more aware of the many forms inequality can take, but also given me an academic foundation to back up this perspective. The "great books" approach of the class will allow you to survey some of the best sociological research on inequality and actually enjoy reading for a class (there are some great ethnographic studies included). And while he won't be here after this year, Professor Sosnaud's enthusiasm for the subject matter made learning it very enjoyable. The TFs are also very kind, supportive, and made discussion with peers fun and useful. Would definitely recommend this course.
Incredible course; the lecturer is wonderful.
This course is a good way to start thinking about social inequality and becoming better informed about the field than you may find on your Facebook newsfeed.
It's a good pretty straightforward class. Readings are interesting and essays are basically summaries of them. Take it if you are interested in the content.
This is a great class that gives you an introduction both to social inequality and to the field of sociology. I learned how to write papers in a sociological style and address problems through a sociological lens. Sosnaud is absolutely wonderful -- so enthusiastic, engaged with his students, an incredible lecturer, and so genuinely interested in the topic. The TF's and readings are also great.
If you're interested in social issues (race, class, gender) DEFINITELY take this class. It's easy to understand, not too much work, and you learn a lot about interesting stuff.
This course provides an interesting and thorough overview of Social Inequality. I am not sure what it will be like without Professor Sosnaud, but I would deffinitely recommend this course. Do the readings, go to class and section, go to OH for the paper assignments, and you will have a really thorough knowledge of inequality!
This is a great class and introduction to sociology! It's not too difficult, but definitely keep up with the readings - they're enjoyable to read anyway.
Very interesting course for exposure to sociology, but certainly not representative, difficulty-wise, of more advanced courses you will take in the department.
This is a class you should definitely take if you are interested in learning the basics of Sociology. The professor is amazing and you will learn so much! The readings are interesting most of the time and the class does not require any unnecessary assignments.
You really missed out because the Professor Sosnaud is leaving Harvard. If another professor picks up the course it will surely be really interesting but it may never be able to hold its own compared to Sosnaud's course.
This course changed my life! It gave me background on the basic types of inequalities that continue to affect the lives of Americans today, and gave me the words and information I needed to articulate what I want to say about it. If you're remotely interested in social justice, social work, social inequality(!!!) take it!!!
This a great course that examines the causes of inequality pertaining to race, class and gender. The course material is great and you really learn a lot. Do the readings, they aren't terribly long and are interesting and will make the papers exponentially easier.
Best class I've taken during my freshman year. Teaches on topics that are relevant in today's world.
The topics of the course are incredible, and lectures are very interesting. However, assignments did not feel helpful to learning and felt like grades were based more on how good a writer you were, not on your understanding of the material or thoughts related to the class.
The material covered in this class is fascinating. The class has a very manageable workload.
Really good course about social inequality. Highly recommend you taking it.
This course covers a wide range of topics pertaining to inequality, but it does not require an excessive amount of outside work.
This course is a great way to understand the socioeconomic disparities in the United States. The reading is not too difficult, and the papers are not harshly graded.
The professor is amazing! He's so excited about the material, and is extremely knowledgeable as well. From sociology concentrators to people with no experience with sociology, this class is great for all. Stay on top of readings!
Great generally because of readings, but a bit too simplified at times and section not particularly helpful.
Great intro to various aspects of inequality- good to take if you haven't yet thought much about race, class, or gender because it's a good intro to these issues in society
I'd definitely recommend taking this class!
This is a great class if you're looking for something low commitment yet still very valuable. Just the readings are worth taking the class for.
Overview of inequality in society based on class, race, and gender. Pretty liberal class though so make sure you always question assumptions.
It is important to being well educated. Everyone needs to know the material in this course.
This class provides a good introduction to sociological issues. Take this class if you want a general background in sociology or if you're a sociology concentrator. The readings are relevant, Prof. Sosnaud is an engaging lecturer and the lecture material is always relevant. Great class.
If you are genuinely interested in the material and are willing to put the time and effort into the readings, you will find the class to be very rewarding. Section and lecture are great.
I loved the topics that we covered. This class has made me believe that I would like to concentrate in sociology. Some of the books that are data heavy aren't as interesting to read, but they contain stuff that's great to know. Sometimes in class I was dissatisfied because I felt like people were just repeating what many of us had read in the assigned readings.
stay on the readings
I came into this class to have an introduction into the field Sociology.  Sadly, the data and course books are a bit outdated and the assignments were repetitive.  Also, this course is alot more politically liberally biased than most courses.  I was disappointed not to hear both sides of issues.  The professor is very personable and the small class size is nice.
Great class. Manageable amount of work and the readings are super interesting.
This course is a rather basic introduction to inequality. Its accessible for people new to sociology which is nice but sometimes it felt a bit simplistic
It's a fair amount of reading but Professor Sosnaud is fantastic and you'll love the engagement and discussion in class.
This course is really interesting. You get to thoroughly read a lot of the classic texts in sociology, and there is an emphasis on discussing them too. It's clear Professor Sosnaud is really excited by what he's teaching which makes the course a lot more fun.
This is an amazing course, but just know the fundamentals of sociology writing, and how it differs from that of expository.
This class is very interesting! The material is a little self explanatory and logical but it's a good sociology introduction.
Professor Sosnaud is great, and the class is a great introduction.
This course is wonderful! Great way to explore sociology. Really interesting and important topic.
35 people is too many people for a discussion based course. Jason should lecture more, since he's good at it, and ask fewer people to talk in class, since all that turns into is people saying fun facts they learned in the books so that they can get participation credit. Katherine is awesome. Very interesting material overall, but would like to learn more in the class itself
This class is great and I highly recommend taking it. It covers societal inequality in two large areas -- race and gender -- but the ideas you learn here can be applied almost anywhere. It also gives you a much sounder understanding of American history, society and public policies.
This is a solid course. You'll learn a good bit about why certain aspects of social inequality exist (especially pertaining to class, race, and gender). It's also a very easy course. However, many of the concepts are fairly obvious. If you need a sociology requirement for pre-med, this is it. If you have some experience with social theory or social studies at all, you may want to take a more advanced class.
Only take this course if you are ready to confront your privilege, especially if you are a white, heterosexual, cysgender, upper-cass male. I also think it is important to emphasize that this is really what the title suggests--an introduction. Hence, do not expect to have the most in-depth conversations you have ever had.
This course deals with incredibly interesting and important topics, but I have reservations recommending it. First, you will learn less about inequality and more about how a sociologist would approach studying sociology, as the course is very method-focused. Second, Jason is a lovely man but a horrible teacher -- he has no ability to organize discussion or even explain simple sociological concepts without abstract diagrams that only serve to further muddle the information. However, Katherine (the TF) is absolutely god-sent, and section functions like lecture as she works to clarify everything that was confused during class.
There is a LOT of reading in this class, but it's engaging material and not difficult to do well in the class.
I think I had very high expectations given the current social climate, and I think that there is room for growth because the class is good, but I don't want Beckfield to become complacent.
Enjoyed this class! It's a lot of little work every week, but that really keeps you on top of the reading. You have to read a book like every week, so be prepared to learn how to skim books strategically (but they, for the most part, are fun reads). The tests are pretty straight forward. Really great class that is a great intro into Sociology.
This class was very interesting and I would definitely recommend it to someone interested in social issues in general. One of my more enjoyable classes this semester by far. The reading was a lot at times, but it was interesting and beneficial.
This class will make you fall in love with sociology. The readings, if nothing else, will make you a smarter person by the end of the semester and I promise that.
This class is a wonderful introductory class.  It exposes you to fascinating topics in a very accessible way.  The discussions we had were always lively and thought-provoking.  Overall, it is not too demanding of a class, so it is a great class to use to balance out your schedule.  Furthermore, Professor Beckfield is tremendously enthusiastic and knowledgable, and clearly is eager to make us love the material.
I'm not sure it's necessary to take the class -- maybe just recommend the reading list to my friend.
This class was really eyeopening. You can easily do well in the class and get a lot out of it without a significant background in sociology.
Only take this course if you are looking for an INTRODUCTION to social inequality. The course was interesting but just covered the bare surface of the most pressing issues. There was also a lack of discussion or focus on how to change things--then again, it is a sociology class. If you are considering majoring in sociology, I would recommend it. If you are interested in changing inequities, don't bother.
It's a sociology class expect it to be liberal.
Great readings, great professor/TF, great intro into the field of sociology
Wonderful course that gives you a broad breadth and depth of knowledge on different types of social inequality! Super interesting material that makes you much more conscious and aware of the world around you. Also, make sure you do the reading!!! And try to participate in discussion - you get that much more out of it!
This class will open your eyes to issues you have never thought about. The books and materials are some of the most interesting I've ever had for a class so the somewhat large amounts of reading are actually quite manageable. Class is really interesting and if you do the reading and participate, preparing for all of the tests will be really manageable.
The readings were interesting. However, I just don't think a class size of 35 works that great for a seminar. Discussion is often quite redundant and not very perplexing.
