If you're interested in the intersection between Sociology and Economics, this is a great class to take. You tackle really interesting subjects with a supportive teaching staff. Reasonably chill class
It's an interesting idea for a course, but poorly structured as it stands right now.
If you love sociology, but are cautious about devling too deep into economics, this is the class for you.
Burak is a great professor who really understands the student perspective. At the end of the day, his goal is to teach you about economic sociology and he doesn't want you to be stressed out about it so he's very understanding about everything else that is going on in your life and is willing to adjust his own teaching to make sure that you're getting what you need to learn the material. The first half of the course is very theory based and can be a bit dry sometimes, but the second half is very case-study based and the materials include ted talks, articles, etc. The final paper can be about anything you want, so if you have a specific interest and want to be able to write about it, there's a lot of flexibility! This is a great class to take if you're looking to learn something interesting and need an easy-moderate course in your schedule!
I think if Burak makes some changes to the course (like lecture having less class discussion, and the readings being more scholarly/sociological), then I would definitely recommend this class to future students. Burak is an amazing person, he is very approachable and kind, and clearly loves teaching. Also, you really get a chance to learn about the policies of other nations, such as the African countries, the Caribbean and China, which are often discussed in everyday conversations or in the news, but you might not otherwise learn about in an academic setting. If you want to know the "basics" then this is the course for you (but if you already an expert in the field of developmental economics or foreign affairs, this class may bore you!).
Good class that provides a broad overview of different concepts of economic sociology. If you're interested in learning about the global economy from different perspectives, then take this class. Relatively painless as a soc class.
The course is engaging with interesting readings and in course discussion. The teaching staff are very approachable and helpful. Be prepared for a lot of discussion around current examples.
This course is a great way to engage in the "tension" (but really synergy!) between economics and sociology. The first half provides a useful foundation for economic sociology theory, and the second half delves into global applications. Prof. Eskici and Barbara care a lot about the students and did a great job - the course ran quite smoothly for its first year and is sure to get better the next time around! Take it to learn about a very cool field and apply your understanding to a global context!
great class
This is a great course. Take it if you are interested in economics but want to gain a new perspective on the subject
This class is great. It really does what the course description says and is useful for economists and sociologists alike. Themes in the course are relevant to so many other themes and fields of studies including government, social studies, and environmental studies.
Definitely speak up in class - it makes the course so much more interesting when others participate
This course is very much a filler course. I wouldn't bother with it.
This class is a great way to explore the intersectionality of Economics and Sociology.  It does a great job exposing students to the ways in which an understanding of culture and social institutions can impact economic behavior (and thus a more sociological understanding of economic behavior can be practical for economic students).
