This is a great class to develop your own ideas and further them with the help of your peers
Filiz Garip is a wonderful teacher. She is incredibly knowledgeable, accessible, thoughtful, and helpful. The readings cover globalization, transnationalism, global care chains, and many other interesting topics, setting you up well to create your final paper, with which you have a lot of freedom in topic choice. The workshop component of the course and the many small assignments over time ensure that you make continuous progress on your final paper and are continuously pushing yourself to make something of high quality of which you are proud. The class is very student-centered, allowing you to collaborate with your peers in the research process and exchange feedback and resources. I am very grateful that I had the privilege to take this as my junior tutorial.
Most definitely take this course. If you are passionate about the world of business, entrepreneurship, and social life look no further. There are very few opportunities to intensely explore these fields at Harvard so do not miss out.
Loved this class. Professor Garip is great.
Filiz is amazing, and this class is very interesting. I hadn't studied much about this topic before, but really enjoyed it. However, I really think it was the professor that made the course. She is cool, interesting, fun to work with, and enthusiastic.
You get to study a lot of interesting material, and you also have a lot of freedom in choosing your final paper topic!
This is a wonderful junior tutorial! Prof. Garip is so nice and encouraging, but also provides great advice to help you narrow down your interests and guide you in a productive direction. I really recommend this tutorial. She also gives some wiggle room under the umbrella topic of the course for your research project's focus. I learned so much and the structure of the course helps you continually be productive and begin to piece together the 20-25 page paper throughout the term so that you can even finish early. Great, great course overall!
If you're interested in any research topic dealing with immigration, business, international markets, or anything in between, this tutorial would be perfect for you. Professor Garip did a great job in helping us through the entire writing process!
This course is really interesting and it teaches you a lot by forcing you to write response papers on the readings.  Because everyone did the readings for the assignments, the discussion was always great.  The final paper is a lot of work, but Prof. Garip was very helpful every step of the way.
BEST CLASS EVER. If you're interested in international business or entrepreneurship or work migration, you must take this class. Overall, if you're interested in migrant workers, international business ties, networks, or entrepreneurship, learn from Prof Garip who is the nicest professor ever. Hands down best professor I've had so far. And it's a 1:7 ratio so you get your voice heard.
This tutorial is really excellent! The course poses an array of interesting questions and ideas. If Filiz is teaching it again, she does a great job of leading the discussion, adjusting the course to match the interests of the class, helping with research issues, and writing lots of comments on early drafts of the final paper. I would definitely recommend!
