Easy, good lectures, but a lot rides on the final paper.
This class was a mess. The readings were not ready before Week 8 of the course. Problem sets were never distributed, which meant there was very little engagement with the material. There was never a guest lecturer (which was promised). Lectures often reused material from previous lectures and had no real value. This was very disappointing because clearly there is a lot to learn about Big Data.
interesting topic, hopefully in future better organized
Do not take this if not substantially changed. This class is disorganized and won't teach you anything other than a couple of theoretical frameworks that you would be better off googling on your own.
This class has the potential to be a good class, but there is a ton that needs to be done before it gets there. I was constantly frustrated in this class. Lectures were disorganized and not engaging. Assignments were not organized either--we didn't get any readings until halfway through the semester, and then we had far too much reading. Our final paper was worth 50% of our grade, which was too much. Additionally, the syllabus did not reflect what happened in class. We never had any problem sets, for example. I was really looking forward to having guest speakers from Google and Facebook, among others, but we never ended up having any guest speakers. Overall, I was extremely disappointed in this class and would definitely not take it again.
The class was very disorganized, and I don't feel like I learned that much.  It was the professor's first year teaching this class, so maybe it will improve.
This class has an enthusiastic teaching staff but a highly disorganized format. Grade distributions among assignments/papers were unclear and assignments didn't necessarily relate to discussion material.
Great topics!
Stay away from this course as it is run right now. If you have a technical background, find a similar course in a different department. If you do not, read "Big Data: A Revolution That Will Transform How We Live, Work, and Think" and you will learn more than this course can offer.
Unless this course is revamped entirely, DO NOT TAKE IT. It's an absolute waste of your time. Didn't go to lecture after a while because it was just repetitive. And as much as I LOVE the professor because he seems like a nice guy and I've heard great things, this course this semester was an absolute train wreck.
very introductory course to the concepts within big data- you could probably learn this stuff on your own through a few ted talks if you had the desire to.
This class requires you to put in the work that you expect to get out of it. There are very few assignments, so staying on top of understanding the material came down to whether or not you engaged/asked questions during lecture.
While the material discussed in the course in interesting (in theory), unless this course gets significantly better organized, it's probably not worth your time.
This is a great class because the readings are great. No matter what background you are from you will highly enjoy the readings, especially given big data is everywhere!But the class organization was bad. It started with no work and then after the middle of the semester we got all those readings and had to write 2-3 pages response paper every week and it culminated with a massive 20 page final paper. I wish the class was more spread out. All that said, I really enjoyed the section led by Letian (LT) and would recommend the class given the assignments are more spread out.
Big Data was very interesting, and I would recommend doing the readings to get the most out of the class as possible!
interesting course. very relevant. you learn about a lot of different areas of big data but you won't become in expert in any of them.
The topic is very interesting and the readings are great. As it is a small class students are encouraged to get involved in open discussions which is very interesting. Nevertheless, the course is too general and sometimes you may have the impression that it is too repetitive. Take this course if you want to discover further your interest in Big Data! The assignments and the final project are a good opportunity to really discover what interests you about this field.
The class is straightforward and overall, pretty manageable. The professor doesn't necessarily return your work on time, so it's difficult to tell how you're performing. I would highly recommend meeting with the professor outside of class. The class can be boring at times because you don't get much information in lecture outside of what's written on slides.
If you are interested in the mindset behind and the application of big data, you should take it.
