If you want a break from MIT go to Harvard.
This class was a great introductory course for sociology. It ended up being pretty small, so there were no sections and everyone participated in the lectures. As a result, the lectures were specific, engaging, and individualized. Sometimes the readings were a bit dense, but I always felt that I understood the materials after the lectures, and office hours were also a helpful tool, as Professor Mandic was great at explaining things and giving specific feedback.
Prof. Mandic is very passionate about the topics and the different readings that are discussed. However, you have to keep in mind that the readings can be very dense and dry to get through, although there are several readings among them that are very eye-opening and make you really think about certain phenomenon and how they apply to your own life.
This is a great introductory class for students looking at sociology as a possible concentration. The readings can be pretty dense, but definitely doable. Even though the class is about political sociology, many of the readings and authors are examined are relevant to the discipline as a whole.
First, Dr. Mandic is a great professor to learn from, and if you're going into sociology or are interested in the field, this class is definitely recommended. This class is easy and hard at the same time; while the only workload you have is to just keep up with the readings, he will grade your essays surprisingly strictly. Still, you should have no trouble or stress taking this course as long as you keep up with the readings.
The professor generates great enthusiasm on the topic and provides us an outlet to apply theoretical readings to real-world scenarios that can connect deeply to our personal lives.
This class will push you to see behind the proverbial curtain and understand all the multivariable factors playing into sociotheoretical thought and social movements all over the world
I heartily recommend this course, in its present state, to anyone definitely interested in sociology and the social sciences AND has past experience in those subjects. DON'T take this class if you're just looking for some blow-off easy elective or if you don't like reading a lot of pages every week. To any freshmen, I wouldn't recommend you take this class your first semester, at least until you get some experience with college writing and readings loads, unless of course you know for sure that this is your passion. Its really hard to read so many pages of dense readings and then write a 15pg paper if you're not enjoying the class, especially straight out of high school and given the lack of instruction regarding sociological writing and reading in this class. Other than that, though, the times I did manage to completely understand the readings  I enjoyed the class immensely, and Professor Mandic is a complete natural at being a professor(hard to believe sometimes he's only been teaching for a short time), his lectures were always engaging and illuminating. So overall, great class for those with a clear passion for sociology, for those who just think this class sounds interesting(and it does!), I wouldn't recommend unless you know for sure sociology is something you'd like to do.
Prof Mandic is unlike any professor you've ever had. You will get so much out of being around him. Definitely take advantage of going to his office hours.
This class has a lot of good information but it is a lot. To do this class right it's necessary to take the time to read and re-read all of the readings.
