Highly recommend this class! The material is fascinating, and Ya Wen wants to work with you to make it as compelling as possible. One of my favorite classes at Harvard b/c it required relatively little input, but I felt like I got a lot out of it.
This class is super interesting, fun, and interactive. Professor Lei has an impressive background as an international lawyer and brings in other experienced lawyers and professionals to give talks throughout the semester. The readings are manageable and diverse. The workload is pretty light, as it only requires a few response papers and then a final paper that can be on any subject you choose. Solid, light class that'll keep you engaged!
The class readings probably could have been improved or made more relevant to one another. Although the materials were interesting, the class seemed to lack a set of broad themes that translated across the different units. This lack tended to make the materials seem more disjointed and a bit more confusing, although they were interesting.
This is a fascinating class, and Professor Lei is one of the kindest faculty members I've encountered here (she gave all the graduating seniors lovely notebooks, for example). By the title of the course, you can tell that the subject matter is really broad -- so of course you only get a cursory look at all sorts of legal issues, which may be good or bad for you. Workload is light -- three short response papers (graded sort of arbitrarily, but not badly) and one 15-page final paper on the topic of your choice. Sections are optional and methods-based. Full of pre-law kids, which again may be good or bad.
Professor Lei clearly loves her students and invests a lot in their learning. She wants you to get the most out of her class and especially with the flexibility of the final paper she lets you pursue your interests and tailor the class to fit your interests. The guest lecturers Professor Lei brings in are also interesting.
It is a great class and the professor is amazing. There is a lot of discussion in addition to learning, and if you have good classmates, you get to learn a lot. The cases you study range from Japan to Israel to US, and it is a good course for providing background on US law. Very interesting course, would recommend also for people who have a general interest in law.
I would tell future students that this is a great course to spark your interest and help you figure out a potential path for your academic career. Because the final term paper is so open-ended, it could help you set the foundation for what you want to study in the rest of your academic career. It's definitely a lighter course too, so that helps.
This was the first year of the class, and I believe the class is changing significantly for future iterations, so keep that in mind. Otherwise, it was a gem.
The material is really cool. The professor is a really good lecturer as well.
This course was fun but lacked structure. It was at times hard to follow the progression of the class as it is new and the lesson plans were somewhat random. It was an interesting topic, but class discussions were not very engaging nor did they encourage participation.
