This is one of the most interesting classes anyone could take at Harvard, but it is a lot of work. The field work takes time and planning, which can be hard to schedule into a person's day to day life. However, if you think about it ahead of time, it can definitely be done.
Be prepared to have challenges thinking of fieldwork ideas. If you are not familiar with sociological writing, there is an adjustment period in terms of getting into writing the field reports and doing fairly well (B+/A-) range on them. Overall, this class is definitely worth taking if you don't mind the fieldwork.
Everyone at Harvard should take this class. We live in such a bubble of privilege, even if we do not come from privileged backgrounds, that makes us forget that there are people all over America struggling to make ends meet. For all those Harvard students who think that welfare creates a web of dependency, this class should be required. It will show them just how lucky they are to even be able to hold those opinions.
Take this class--important to gain this perspective. However, it is not a theoretical sociological class--sometimes it felt very hard to generalize from what we learned. It was more like a gov class in this way.
This class was life-changing. Made me think much more deeply about my socio-economic privilege in the face of our country's huge welfare and poverty issues. Also made me a a better writer, reader and the fieldwork was incredible.
This is an incredible class that provides valuable first experiences with fieldwork, introduces students to seminal and thought-provoking readings without overdoing the workload, and has unforgettable lectures. Take the fieldwork seriously and step outside of your comfort zone.
Excellent course with great teaching staff; you learn to look at poverty with a totally new (more informed) perspective; the workload was manageable, with very engaging readings and pretty cool fieldwork assignments that allow you to see some of the issues of poverty firsthand, in our own backyard; Matt is a wonderful professor who deeply cares about the topic, which translates into effective lectures; lastly, the class doesn't get too bogged down by obscure social theories, but instead uses data-driven approaches which are ultimately more compelling in my opinion
The class talks all about problems but not at all about solutions to poverty, which I thought was less useful than it could have been. I also think a lot of the stuff we learned is kind of obvious -- like obviously black people have it worse than white people, which seemed to be something that came up again and again.
A beautiful course! You learned for the sake of learning. Did not have to put in tons of hours to appreciate the material. It was pretty easy while you learned a ton. The assignments were enjoyable. Very structures and Desmond is awesome!! Highly recommend.
If you're looking for a course that allows you to get out of your comfort zone with field reports, interact with amazing and inspirational guest speakers, and experience surprising lectures by Professor Desmond,take this course. The incredible thoroughness with which the topic of poverty is treated changes your way of perceiving the world and the humans within it.
One of the most valuable courses at Harvard! The materials are very interesting (though there's a lot of reading which I could not get through sometimes). Plan your field report early and use it as a chance to get out of the Harvard bubble. You will feel inspired and touched if you put the effort in.
Seriously an amazing course. The lectures especially make the course awesome, and ethnography is an amazing component of the class. Professor Desmond is amazing and enthusiastic and approachable.
Not too hard of a class. Interesting lectures
This class is very different in a very good way. There is deceptively little work: only 4 field short reports, which are hardly rigorous sociological writing. However, that being said, they can be extremely difficult if you wait too long, don't have a good idea for what to do, or you're uncomfortable putting yourself out there. They ended up being pretty universally fascinating and it felt like you actually learned something from them, though. There is a good bit of reading but it's actually super interesting: a good mix of sociological studies and novels/first-person accounts. Prof Desmond is a super fascinating guy, cool and charismatic, and it's fun to listen to him recount his own work, in particular, in lecture: he clearly is very passionate about what he does.
This is a survey class, so you learn a little about a lot of things. There is sooooo much more to learn about everything we talk about, because it's all so important! Unfortunately, it's one semester and therefore not a lot of time. Also, if you have taken other sociology classes before, it is likely that you have been previously exposed to the material. All in all, take this class, especially if you have never been exposed to something like it before!!!
The fieldwork assignments are not something you can procrastinate on, and you need to break out of your comfort zone to be able to do them!
This is an amazing class. Matthew Desmond is an amazing professor and this class will open your eyes.
This is a perfect class if you are looking for a fourth to take pass/fail. It's interesting and requires relatively little work. However, if you are a student (like me) who comes from poverty, its not the most enlightening. You aren't really learning anything that you haven't already experienced first hand.
TAKE IT AND DO NOT HESITATE. It is unique and you will learn to think about poverty in a completely new way.
Think about the field work long before its due! The more time you put in, the more you will get out of this class.
One of the best and most important classes I have taken at Harvard. You must do it. I don't know if this class will become a Gen-Ed, and if it does I imagine that will change the structure somewhat, but this class will, I have no doubt, continue to be amazing. The lectures are jam-packed with incredibly important and mind-opening material. Desmond is the most engaging lecturer I have had the privilege of being taught by, and the guests he brought in to speak really added to the class. Section was great. The main assignments in the course are short ethnographies, interviews, or observation exercises, and you will get a lot out of it. Make sure to start early enough on the ethnographies, especially the first one, as gaining access to the subjects you want to study can be more difficult than you might anticipate.
This class might change your life and your career aspirations. It will push you to talk to all types of people for ethnographic research, read things that will open your perspectives on poverty and the poor, and hold discussions in section on things like why is it there are homeless people in Harvard Square.
This class is incredible and a welcome change from a lot of other Harvard classes I've taken. The teaching staff is incredible, especially Professor Desmond. They do their best to present an unbiased view of poverty, which is a difficult task. The assignments are tough but not tied too closely to the rest of the class, which makes them more enjoyable. Overall, I learned a lot about poverty in all of its forms. If you have any interest in becoming more informed about one of the most important political issues today, take this class. Not a huge investment for a huge payout.
YOU MUST TAKE THIS CLASS! It will change how you think about the world.
Most I have learned in a class at Harvard, most real world application. Really eye opening and information everyone should be exposed to.
I think our world would be a better place if everyone took this class. I think the material is important to know about and it's crucial that we all learn how to talk to people who come from vastly different backgrounds. That said, I found myself getting bored because everything was very surface level. We covered so much ground that it was hard to truly feel like I mastered anything. I know that this was supposed to be more of a survey class, but I would have preferred something a bit more focused and rigorous.
This is one of the best classes I've taken here. Dean Khurana always talks about how Harvard should be transformational, and I honestly think this class was. If you're interested in sociology, social justice, or socioeconomics in any way, definitely shop this class. You'll be hooked. The class isn't demanding in terms of time or academic effort--it instead changes your way of perceiving and thinking about these issues. I seriously cannot recommend this class enough.
Take Poverty in America! This is best class I've ever taken at Harvard. This is the chance to explore one of the world's biggest issues. It is also a chance to hear firsthand accounts from a McArthur Genius from the man himself. Professor Desmond is extremely down to earth, funny, genuine, and approachable. Easily one of the top 5 professors at this university in my book. Also, the class isn't very hard! The four fieldwork assignments can be time consuming but offer very valuable experience. Definitely take this class!
This is a great class. It is absolutely wonderful. This will be like no other class you have taken in Harvard and will engage in a way that goes further than academics. I highly recommend it if it offered again.
You learn so many valuable things from this class, regardless of your background. Take it.
This is one of those classes at Harvard that everyone, no matter what concentration, should take.  You will be incredibly glad that you did and you will learn a ton about how the world works.
This class will change the way you view injustice in society and will allow you to critically evaluate the problems that are facing our world today. It is a fantastic class.
This class is awesome if you're willing to engage with difficult problems in our society and take the time necessary to do good fieldwork. Matt Desmond is awesome, the TFs are great, and the classes are always really interesting - though they can also be really emotionally heavy.
Literally every student should take this class. It taught me so much about the world.
This class will teach you a lot about poverty, but it won't teach you to think critically about poverty. It will teach you what to think about poverty, and your grade will likely be a reflection of your ability to digest their opinions and regurgitate it with some level of sincerity. I'm glad I took this class, but some parts of it really irritated me.
This is a class that has material unlike any other class at Harvard. It forces you to take a hard look at the world and the difficulties many people face. This is a class that is absolutely necessary at an institution like Harvard. It will make you leave your bubble of privilege and really force yourself to critically look at the inequality in our society. This class was an incredible experience, and I cannot recommend it enough.
This is a class that links academia to the real world really nicely. In addition to reading sociological literature on poverty, conducting fieldwork to actually talk to people in poverty or people/organizations who work to assist the poor made the class an intellectually enriching experience. In terms of workload, it's really not a lot. I thoroughly enjoyed the class and its one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
This course is amazing and so important!!! The fieldwork is definitely one of the best parts of the course - they require a lot of time and effort but are definitely worthwhile. Professor Desmond is also extremely passionate about the material and very engaging. He keeps lecture interesting!
This is one of those life-changing courses. It's easy to form opinions based on news reports or FB posts but this class equips you with the scientific data (studies, ethnographies and your own field work) to form a more informed opinion on the true and current political/racial/social state of America. This was my first experience with sociology and my first experience with field work, so really all you need to enjoy this class is an interest in poverty. Please take it to become a more informed, empathetic human being.
This course engages you in all aspects of poverty. Remember to make time for your field projects!
This class is good. Field reports are interesting. Section is boring and tedious. Grading is very arbitrary, really unclear what they're evaluating on your field reports. Makes an otherwise incredible class kind of frustrating.
Every should be forced to take this class because everyone should know this information and be forced to think about these topics. It's also a great course overall and its very interesting.
The course was excellent and eye-opening.  The professor is brilliant and the readings are engaging.  The guest speakers were very good.
everyone should take this class. Desmond is a phenomenal professor and the material is incredible.
This is hands down the best class I've ever taken at Harvard.  The content is fascinating and well organized; lectures are great and Desmond bring in lots of really interesting and pertinent guests, form tenants organizations to formerly incarcerated people to poets.  The readings are short and easy, but so eye-opening, and the field work assignments are so interesting (be sure to leave enough time to do them!).  There is no reason not to take this class and scores of reasons to take it.
Take this class. No, you don't understand, take this class. This is literally the Harvard academic experience I have searched and searched for. Brilliant professor who also happens to be a good teacher, interesting fun TFs that also happen to good teachers (amazing, I know), fascinating readings that can sometimes be dense but are always meaningful (that make you truly regret when you have to skip them because you FEEL like you're missing part of the puzzle), meaningful assignments, and a topic that literally changes the way you perceive the world after studying it extensively... I just, I love this class that much. It's an exquisitely well-crafted class experience.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. If you are interested in ethnography or fieldwork, this class could change your life. All the readings are very interesting.
your perspective on class will likely change!! and become way more nuanced
TAKE THIS CLASS!
TAKE THIS CLASS. it will rock your world and is the best class I've taken here and should be mandatory. Everyone should understand why poverty exists in America and if you can take it with Professor Desmond, he is the most passionate but empathetic professor and you will be challenged.
You you are interested in poverty in America and want a framework to think about it or ways to express and discuss all the injustices in America and even those you didn't know of, this is the class! I left every class deep in though, questioning, reflecting, and wanting to continue the conversations we were having outside of class. It is an amazing class with an incredible professor and Tf's. I would strongly recommend this course.
Take this class!! It is absolutely amazing and has really impacted the way I think about our country today.
It's truly eye-opening and I believe, an essential course. The content covered in this class has made me ten times more aware of my surroundings and the mechanisms that govern socioeconomic status. Professor Desmond is wonderful, and his course reflects his expertise in the field.
This class was my favorite class I have taken at Harvard so far. Professor Desmond is incredible. This course requires quite a bit of reading, writing, and time, although the readings are really interesting. You must put in work for your fieldwork assignments and these can sometimes be really difficult, but they are incredibly helpful to enhancing this course experience.
This class will transform how you think about poverty in America. Professor Desmond's lectures always leave you feeling a strong connection with those living in poverty and spark a motivation to help improve their situation. The class also shows how poverty is not simply a fact of life, but has been created through particular federal policies and business practices. The arc of the course is positive, though, and by the end we see how other policies have successfully reduced poverty and how one might advocate for reforms to make things better. The fieldwork assignments take time as you are asked to go and talk with people living in poverty firsthand, but they are central to the experience of the course and will enable you to more directly relate to the material. The course readings are well-chosen to be interesting and to tell a clear story together. Professor Desmond knows students' names, and he directs the class so that the TFs can lead great discussions in section. Overall, the course is an excellent overview of poverty in America which will challenge your thinking and make you see our economic and political system in a new way. You should definitely take it!
I think I have a pretty wide-ranging view of poverty now - may not have always totally agreed with Matt (mostly did) but his lectures are FANTASTIC and you will love each and every one. Definitely cannot claim to understand everything about poverty now (and Matt makes no such claims), but will give you a solid perspective on a variety of ways that people experience poverty, not just how it is produced. Would certainly recommend for those who care about these types of things, and would doubly recommend for those who think they don't. Don't go through your Harvard career turning a blind eye to the realities of poverty because you know you are going to make boat loads once you are out and you will never really have to think about not having money. Not to shame you into taking the class, but it seems like a valuable thing to try to understand when so many of us will be able to easily avoid the issue if we like post-graduation.
Be ready to step outside of your comfort zone.
This class should be required of everyone at Harvard. An amazing course that forces students to engage with one of the biggest human rights concern of our generation.  As future leaders of this country, talking openly and earnestly about race, class, and poverty is an absolute must if we are going to make any difference in this world.
Your views on the poor living in America will totally change
You will learn a lot about poverty in America, but be prepared to spend time outside of class doing the field reports; they can be fun and really eye-opening, but really do require early planning on your part and making sure that you can clear some time in your schedule.
Great course that everyone should take! The material is crucial to understanding inequality and privilege in the United States. This class will make you think, and will probably sometimes make you uncomfortable and confront you with hard truths, but it's worth it.
This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Simply superb. Desmond's lectures were captivating and compelling, lyrically delivered and supported by hard data and personal experience. The ABL (activity-based learning) component was highly effective at making everything learned in readings and lectures real and unforgettable.It required you to go out and do your own mini fieldwork assignments in the community and learn about poverty hands on. Desmond went out of his way to connect us the matieral. We conference called the author of an ethnography we read, Skyped a researcher on suburban poverty, brought a poet in to do a live performance, and had section at the Fogg one time. This class is so unique and powerful. Altogether a remarkable experience, and highly recommended.
Great class. Gives a broad overview of the problems of poverty in the United States. The assignments are manageDon't miss a chance to be taught by Professor Desmond.
Take this class! Commit to the readings and the fieldwork, you won't regret it!
This is a class that every Harvard student should take before they graduate. This class actually teaches students to take a hard look at the real problems out there in the world, and inspires us to go out there and do something about it. This class exemplifies what a Harvard education is supposed to be about: taking what we learn in the classroom to solving real world problems.
The best class I've taken at Harvard so far, hands down. Professor Desmond's lectures are AMAZING, and each one makes you think about an issue in a new way. The readings were all really interesting, and we didn't get too bogged down in theory, opting instead for real-world fieldwork, which I really appreciated.
Plan time for your field reports or it can be very stressful to arrange interviews or observations at the last minute.
If you're at all interested in poverty issues, you should definitely take this class. It gives you a really good sense of what it's like to live in poverty, and the field assignments (less intimidating than you might think) also really help to teach you real things about real people so that political issues seem more real and less abstract. Really great class!
Great introduction to the complexity of issues concerning poverty
This class taught me more about poverty than I ever would have known otherwise.  This class finally got me to see poverty as something real, something human, and something we can change.  This class is amazing; it opened my eyes to a whole new world.
This class is amazing, and it seriously changed so many of my views on poverty. We covered so much ground throughout the semester, and each of the units were very well thought-out. The readings are great, section leaves much to be desired. Field assignments were initially daunting, and although it takes a lot of time to plan out and actually do the fieldwork, the writing actually doesn't take as long, and the experiences themselves are really valuable.
take this class! super interesting
Really interesting class, with fantastic teaching. The course is made up with four fieldwork assignments, which are really enjoyable and flexible. Really great TFs and fun and thought-provoking sections. Only complaint is that the course often felt too broad (unsurprising for a course called "Poverty in America"). Overall, great experience.
Great class-the field work is moderately hard but you will learn so much! One of the best classes I've ever taken!
This course could've been executed a lot more effectively. However, it's still a pretty unique academic opportunity to do fieldwork, and the material is really, really important.
If you are at all interested in topics related to poverty in America, you must take this course. Matt is an incredible lecturer (perhaps the best I've had in my four years of college) and this class covers four hugely important areas related to poverty today: low wage work and joblessness, housing, immigration and incarceration, and survival and protest. Even more importantly, Matt asks you to conduct a field report in each of these areas, forcing you to grapple with these issues using ethnographic research and in a way that no reading or lecture can truly convey. I'll remember my interviews and experiences from the field reports well after college and have Matt and this class to thank for that.
This is a great, eye-opening class that lets you look at poverty from an academic perspective while also engaging with it on a more direct, personal level. Professor Desmond is a great lecturer who mixes his own research with other course material nicely. The special guests at lecture and the weekly readings provided strong insights into the lives of the poor in America today. The fieldwork assignments were fun challenges and offered a unique opportunity to engage with the wider Cambridge and Boston communities. The ethnographic observation and interview research techniques I developed will be beneficial for thesis research in the future. The final paper was a nice opportunity to synthesize the lectures, readings, and fieldwork assignments and understand just how complex and unfortunate poverty in America is today.
An amazing class that demonstrates how experience-based learning can work well. Would highly recommend to anyone looking to enroll in the class. Next year it will get even better, given that this was the first year that it was taught.
