Surprisingly, there's not that much discussion in this course, nor is there much lecturing by Professor Whyte; each week, we did student presentations that lasted almost the whole class, and while they were very in-depth and informative, I would have liked more time to talk about the readings with classmates and hear what the Professor has to say about them. Instead, the course expects you to make great presentation on the 3 weeks you are assigned to do so, and listen during the other weeks. The final paper is very flexible, which is nice.
Can give students a lot of concrete understanding of Chinese modern history.
Very interesting, if you are OK talking about sociology and not political science.
If you are interested in modern China and looking for a course with small class size and great opportunities for discussion, you should consider Sociology 237.
This class is a great introduction to both the study of inequality in modern China and the sociology of China.
This course is helpful for students interested in Chinese society especially the social problems.
In this course, you learn tons about patterns of inequality stratification under state-socialism and in the reform era. You learn about different kinds of inequality: income, gender, educational, and so forth. You will be surprised by the kind of corruption and inequality there was under state-socialism; you will also be fascinated by the dynamics between Chinese husbands and wives. This course can be considered inter-disciplinary for two reasons. One, you read things written in econ, poli sci, and sociology, etc. (even novels and news). Two, students come from different disciplines, which makes class discussion (and after-class discussion) super interesting. Finally, the course teaches you how to get ahead in China - so if you want to get ahead, take it.
If you have an interest in China and contemporary Chinese society, this is a wonderful seminar that will expose you to a lot of great readings and discussions on relevant issues.
This class is really only useful if you have a burning desire to learn about modern China and you currently know nothing about it. Or if you are writing a thesis about this sort of thing. Otherwise, you can spend your time elsewhere.
I would like to tell students that it is a strongly participatory class. And it is more about learning from peers.
