Do not let the fact that this course has a lot of quantitative analysis scare you away. I was very skeptical about having to use tables and statistics, but after this semester, I'm glad I took this course because I developed stata skills and can now perform more well-rounded research.
Professor Garip is extremely understanding and flexible to work with, even arranging a Skype session with me for my paper after she had given birth to twins!, and I really appreciated her willingness to meet with us weekly and to respond to emails instantaneously. Fondness of data and statistics is preferred, as I had trouble appreciating or fully understanding my analysis since I am more qualitative, but the material itself was interesting and Professor Garip walks you through each step carefully. I was so appreciative that she was so approachable and invested in us and gained a very valuable connection to a professor through the class as a result!
This was a great course. I really learned a ton about how to uses Stata and learned a lot about Mexican Immigration as I wrote my final paper. Its a great class and the professor really helps you though everything.
it's a good class, but your enjoyment will probably depend on how interested you are in migration/mexico.
it's great, don't let the subject throw you off. even if you're not a huge fan of quantitative methods, you'll enjoy it. garip is a wonderful teacher - very approachable and kind. it's a useful way to fulfill the 98 requirement; you learn a lot more about using stata than in 156.
Filiz was a great professor and was very thoughtful and helpful with stata and the drafts we had to write. However I found that after the first four weeks, the course itself became somewhat boring.
Don't worry about stata! Even if Soc 156 was a challenge, Filiz will be there to help you out! She taught us new approaches to stata that made the program so much easier to use. In the end, you will feel empowered with the ability to use stata for future projects, including your own thesis research.
