This is an outstanding course, which really changed the way I looked at sex, gender, and sexuality-- and the interactions between them. Tey Meadow is an outstanding professor, very smart and opinionated. It was a pleasure to have her lecture twice a week. That being said, this is not an easy class. There is a lot of (great) readings, but I guarantee that if you take the time to read those texts, you will benefit greatly from the course.
The content was incredibly interesting and the lectures were extremely engaging. I actually liked completing the assignments. It is not a tremendously difficult course, but you will get a lot out of it.
Prof. Meadow did an excellent job of making complex gender/sexuality theory accessible for individuals who may have never taken a WGS course; at the same time, I (as a WGS concentrator) still feel like I learned loads about effective and appropriate ways to qualitatively study this kind of stuff. Overall, this is a really great course. Seriously, I think everyone at Harvard should have to take it.
Great class and really interesting topic. Reading sociological papers provided a new perspective for me (a WGS concentrator who usually deals with literature). I wish there'd been more of a focus on intersectionality though.
Seriously. This class covers the intersection of race gender class ability etc. It is very important everyone everyone everyone takes this class.
I thought this class was interesting, section was fine, readings were interesting. Readings can be dense but they get unpacked enough in section and lecture that you can still write a good essay if you just skim read. I found this class really easy, and it made a nice balance to my pset heavy schedule. I was already radical in my beliefs about sex, gender, and sexuality, so I can't say this class changed my perspective all that much, just reinforced beliefs I already had.
This course was incredibly enlightening. The assignments were 100% transparent, i.e. do the readings and you will have no problem. Professor Meadow asks for students' opinions in lecture, and she has a great attitude overall. There many, many readings-- so I would recommend reading for key themes and not for thoroughness. Lecture, section, readings and assignments are so well integrated hat if you fall behind on one or two readings each week, you'll have multiple opportunities to get the information. An interesting course with fascinating course material that's directly applicable to daily life.
It is low key kind of difficult but you will definitely get a lot out of it and it's super interesting. It will make you way less ignorant.
This class will demand a lot of you -- there is a lot of reading, a lot of assignments, and the concepts at times can be quite difficult to grasp. However, I got a lot out of this class and I think the effort I put in was definitely worth it.
There are a lot of papers, but they are not difficult. This is very applicable to real life and therefore very worth it.
This is a great class for sociology students with little to no background on WGS topics. If you are a WGS student, this class probably won't give you much. Assignments are clear, lectures are well-executed, and readings are interesting. However, there is a lot of hand-holding that may be frustrating for anyone who knows the topics at all.
PSA: Sociology is not easy. I thought this class was going to be simple because I had heard that sociology was easy. I don't know if its just because I'm used to pre-med classes or what, but there were a lot of dense readings that went over my head and I didn't get above a Bplus on any of the papers. It was an interesting elective, but take it pass fail if you don't like writing papers.
Extremely interesting material, makes you realize how many things in your life have no more basis than the fact that that's the way you were taught to perceive the world. You won't get bored.
This class is good for people who are willing to go in with an open mind and allow their preconceived notions of the world to be challenged. It is important to do the readings to fully understand the concepts but they are mostly engaging and definitely worth it. Additionally, I felt like the writing assignments were actually beneficial and not burdensome.
The material is so relevant, it'll make you see things a little differently. In the ebst way.
You talk about homosexuality, gender, and sex. If you're not interested in making these concepts academic, then don't take this. Otherwise, pretty interesting material. You learn how straight guys seek sex on Craigslist and still claim they're straight. Who knows?
This course is super interesting, you cover a lot of different topics and examine different perspectives, all from a very unbiased point of view.
This class is extremely interesting, relevant and thought provoking. Professor's Meadow's lectures are excellent. Take it!
