Manageable amount of reading.  Other than 1-2 weeks, each set of readings was fantastic.
It's a required course and probably needs to be so this question is really N/A. However, I'd encourage students to really think about their own work from the beginning and throughout the course; it makes some of the more abstract and older writings you read more relevant and accessible. Lot of reading, fair amount of writing, sometimes slow moving and abstract, but if you get a professor who is interesting and kind and warm like Brinton, you'll make it through and be grateful along the way.
Good readings but discussion not tailored to making sure students have fair understanding of readings before critique
Again, the readings were good and discussions interesting, but it would've been nice if we had hammered home a few key lessons to really advance are understanding of the place of sociology in contemporary academia and over the second half the 20th century.
In general you will learn a lot of the intellectual lay of the land, but there will be some boring patches. Not that you have much choice on the matter (departmental requirement)
This class would be far more useful to have before general exams. Little class time was devoted to discussing readings. No feedback was given until reading week.
If you want to get as much out of this course as possible, you might consider meeting with your classmates out of class to discuss the material.  I thought that the readings were great, but class didn't let us work through them as much as they warranted.
Try to form study groups outside of class to engage in the material, especially during the second half.
This course will be very helpful if it was taught before generals because much of the material will offer a structured way to think about the genealogy of sociology (something I feel even advanced students lack appreciation for but offers a very solid foundation upon which to build one's knowledge of the field).
It is critical to theoretically see what literature your research is embedded in. This class is great if you would like to go through sociological theory.
This course provides an important framework for understanding the theoretical  underpinnings of contemporary sociology. It is a great resource for learning about the development of the field in an American context and I would certainly recommend to any and all sociologists.
If you are really interested in theory, read some European scholars because you probably won't read them in this class.
Soc 208 is a good overview of instructor-selected schools of thought in contemporary sociology.
An interesting class to learn about contemporary theory.
