Don't take this as a fifth class with a thesis.
learn so much!
It is not an easy class. Definitely requires a lot of hard work and dedication.
You need to have a clear idea of what your research questions/goals are, and it would be best to make sure that they fit within the scope of the class.
Get your work done early
That it is extremely useful and informative and well done. I would recommend maybe not doing it as part of New Sector, but just with an organization you are really interested in. The small nature of teh class is really nice and the guest lecturers are amazing - you get access to professors you normally would not.
Make sure you are intellectually invested in your research project.
The grading is rather arbitrary.
Only take it if you have to, such as for New Sector projects. I def would not waste an elective on it.
This class was rather disappointing. I was looking for an opportunity to gain some practical experience with Non profits Sociology 95 did not provide that. If this class had not been required I would have dropped it as soon as possible.
I would tell future students that this course is extremely cumbersome and not helpful in augmenting research or interest in non-profits.
Much of the hours required for this class depend on your indiivdual project
Don't take this class if you are looking to change the world or if you want an easy class.. take this class only if you are willing to perform meaningless tasks
I fully recommend this course IF you have a non profit in mind for your project and IF you are interested in learning about non profit structure and organization.
I don't know if Josh will still be teaching this class in the future, but you should hope that he is. He understands students, and the demands placed on them, and has been one of the most accommodating professors I've had here. He also understands what is necessary and helpful to a course he inherited, and what is chaff. In the future, I have full faith he can continue to refine it into the smooth workshop it ought to be. If you do take this class though, have an organization in mind that you have experience with, as 2 kids dropped this semester when their organizations became unresponsive and they couldn't finish their projects.
This course is AMAZING!  If you have a nonprofit project you want to undertake, this is the perfect format.  Josh gave us the freedom to really pursue our interests and was very supportive about meeting us.  I felt like our class grew closer, and we had a blast!  But definitely don't take this course if you don't have an idea.
it is NOT just a research project -- it is a regular class + research project
Good to have a clear idea of a project early.
Great opportunity to have guidance on a project of personal importance
If you are someone who is passionate about nonprofits, have had experience working with a nonprofit, and/or are looking to pursue work in the nonprofit field, this is a great course that teaches you the background of nonprofits and issues concerning nonprofit management and organization, things that you might not be as familiar with if you have only worked on the service provision side of an organization. I learned a lot and the course got me started on thinking of nonprofit organizations in a new light.
