The books that we read in this class were really interesting. Professor Viterna's book is really fantastic! But, honestly, consider just reading the books and not taking the class.
it's easy, but you learn stuff, and definitely take it if you're an activist.
TAKE THIS COURSE IT WILL CHANGE THE WAY YOU THINK ABOUT THE WORLD.
Viterna is incredible. Awesome course!
Course needs to get smaller. It's not a good lecture course but has been great in the past as a 40 person class.
This class was a very interesting look at social movements, complete with real-life examples and applications that brought the material to life. However, the organization of the course made things much more challenging, especially given just how incompletely expectations were articulated throughout the semester. Paper topics weren't always great, feedback on papers was just alright, and the readings weren't entirely informative. If the course makes a few organizational adjustments, however, it could be wonderful!
This course is extremely introductory. I know people who loved the course, but I personally did not, so it is probably up to ones own tastes. Professor Viterna is clearly very enthusiastic about her work and class, but I did not find the course well organized. While we got through all the material, the lectures were always pretty simple and almost felt like high-school presentations. It was not a particularly challenging or engaging course and it was easy to stray away. Only take this course if you are actually very interested in the workings of social movements, and if so, perhaps consider taking a course that's a higher level.
This class is wonderful! Take it! It will open up your eyes on the whole of social movements.
Great class. A little unwieldy with 100+ students, but Viterna did a great job of retaining a little bit of a discussion feel even though it was a pretty big lecture. Viterna is wonderful and the material is fascinating.
Easy gen-ed that is sometimes engaging but usually kind of a mess.
This is an excellent course that introduces you to social mobilization. Professor Viterna regards the what she is teaching as more than course material. The immediacy and the incredible real-life applicable nature of the class is apparent, since one of our lectures was in the Divest Harvard protest. Her enthusiasm for the topic makes it fun t o learn, also one of the required course books is written by her and it was fascinating to read about her work in the social movements field.
One of the most interesting and engaging classes I've taken on campus. Professor Viterna obviously really cares about this subject, and the fact that many students in this course share that feeling makes this class a very enriching experience. At the beginning of the semester, you pick a movement to follow for the rest of the semester, and you'll apply theories you'll learn in class to that specific movement. Take time to pick a movement that you really care about, because it makes this experience all the better.
This class is a good fourth class to add if you have a very demanding work load as this one is particularly light. Although I would anticipate changes next time it is offered since this year was the first time it was a gen-ed, it was a fairly painless way to fulfill the USW requirement.
This is the absolute best sociology class I have taken. I learned so much not only about social movements, but also about politics. It changed the way how I view political movements in the world both in the US and abroad. The teaching staff is really supportive and you have all the requirements to do well in your hand.
This class is very interesting if you are interested in learning about the theories related to social movements. It is a good class because you are able to apply the theories we read about to a movement that interests you.
Sociology 27 was an incredible class. If you are looking for a U.S. in the world Gen Ed, or an interesting elective, this course is both satisfying and flexible. It is not too time consuming, and the class is structured so you can chose which essay to opt out of in case you have a particularly busy part of the semester. Additionally the final is not too demanding or overwhelming. The readings are phenomenal and the material covered in section makes you more socially aware about injustices. I would say it has encouraged me to become a more active and engaged citizen.
doable workload, easy to grasp material. be aware, though, that this class is mostly built off the assumptions that social movements are good. so if you are questioning about the rights/wrongs about movements, at least this year the class did not address those. we focused on movements' tactics, framing, emergence, etc.
this course is interesting but its definitely a large lecture gen-ed so accept that kind of dynamic
This is a wonderful course, especially to fulfill USW. The material was really interesting and applicable to everyday life. Furthermore, the class is really well-organized, as well as fair. Assignments were clear and thought-provoking, without being too difficult. I thought the take-home exam did a good job of making us reflect on what we had learned without throwing frustrating curve balls at us.
Pretty easy and painless way to fulfill the US and world gen ed requirement. Despite what you would think, you don't need to read the books to do well in the course.
Social movements covered without much rigor. Bias clearly evident in both TFs and professor. Not much serious, disciplined thinking, just endless praise of all social movements. The books we read were, however, very interesting. Lectures were unhelpful. The professor babies you and gives you summaries of theories rather than asking you to do some of the hard work yourself. Which is good if you're busy, but frankly unsatisfying.
I got very little out of this course. The material seemed very surface level, and I never felt like we students were working toward any greater understanding or goal. I think the course suffered from its transition from a seminar to a lecture format.
This course was very enjoyable. Professor Viterna's lectures were interesting, so it was not difficult to remain engaged. She also managed to keep lectures interactive even with such a large class. Section was also very helpful, as it brought together what we learned in lecture with the readings. There is a lot of reading for this course, but most people did not do the majority of the readings. This unfortunately led to poor discussions at times and poor essays. However, staying on top of the readings is a great way to do well on the essays and memos.
Prof Viterna obviously cares a lot about her students! The class is pretty chill and you get to learn about whatever movement interests you! The lecture ppts are also great, really well organized
Once the quirks are ironed out (due to the inevitable upscaling that comes with gen-ed courses), this will be THE class to take. The material can't be found in any other class, and Professor Viterna is one of the few instructors who is well attuned to social issues on campus!
Professor Viterna really cares about the class, her students, and the material, and the case studies were often very interesting. The lectures, however, weren't that engaging, and the atmosphere of the class was extremely liberal, which I felt stifled alternative perspectives on issues.
This is an amazing class! Professor Viterna is great, the TFs are great, the books are great. It's a good introduction to sociology if you've never taken a class before and you'll learn so much that is applicable to your life outside of the class (esp if you are into activism/want to get into it more)
This class took some of the most interesting subject matter and made it unbearable - if that's even possible. Dry, bland, boring, badly taught, terrible sections. Started 20 minutes late every class. Random discussions. It would have been so much better if it was better structured.
This class covers interesting material, although it was more historical than I expected.  Great use and scope of different movements as examples and a cool exposure to sociology.  I couldn't quite get the handle of the grading though - summary versus analysis
This class is great, but be wary that it does focus on theory more than it does on examples of social movements. It's not a history class in that regard. It's about sociological social movement theory.
The course is interesting, the books are great, and overall you learn about change in society. Not a difficult class, as it is at the intro level. You get a comprehensive overview of where the social movement theory is as of today, and tracks on where it could develop.
Take this course! This course potentially changed my life and although was difficult at times is totally worth it! You only have to write three essays (which is intimidating in some terms) but also cuts down on the time you need to spend on the class. There are no exams and you also get so much out of this class and learn so much! It's totally pertinent--this year we discussed Black Lives Matter and DivestHarvard and other pertinent social movements! As long as you KEEP UP WITH YOUR READINGS (highly recommended) you will do fine in this class! As a pre-med student, I would have never found myself in the field of sociology but I thoroughly enjoyed this class (although the readings were a bit length/ tough to chew at times). Take this course to expand your mind and to develop more critical thinking skills and become one with the world! This course actually really changed the way I view the world / volunteerism/ political activism / social movements and makes me want to be a participant in some greater cause / social movement now!! Super super inspiring as a course!
This class is a nice way to fulfill the US in the World Gen-ed, and learn basic sociology theory. The work load is light, and the lectures are very interesting.
This class is not very demanding yet it is interesting.  Having limited background on this topic (and being a science concentrator) I learned a good amount without stressing about the workload or grade.  Overall, it was a fun experience.  Viterna is a great person.
Take this class for an intro to sociology from a great professor! There aren't as many readings as in a typical sociology/humanities course, and the discussions in lecture are enjoyable and enlightening to think about with regards to social movements. Think about a social movement that you would potentially want to do research on early on -- it'll help for class.
Lectures are not very engaging and section is haphazard. The class is painful for the way it's taught--not the coursework or readings. That being said, the class seemed to be struggling with "growing pains" because it tripled in size.
This class has promise in terms of the material and the lecturing talent of the professor, but these strength were overshadowed by the deeply frustrating disorganization and poorly considered assessment methods.
The subject of this class is super interesting, but it's often really hard to pay attention in lectures. Professor Viterna is very nice and does a good job of always bringing real life into theories. Also, it's not terribly difficult, so it's a good way to fulfill a gened.
As a Stat/CS/Econ/Math student, I've found this course eye opening. It provides many frameworks on analyzing the "non-rational" aspects of human behaviors. It is by far one of the best classes i've taken at Harvard.
I loved this class. The material is interesting and the assignments not very demanding but also thought-provoking. But the course staff is what makes this class. Professor Viterna is incredible, and the TFs are uniformly excellent. All are infectiously enthusiastic and dedicated to helping you learn
If you're thinking about taking this class because you want to meet other social justice warriors and make yourself feel good about being an "activist," then take this class. If you actually want to learn something about social movements, stay far, far away.
This class is poorly organized and felt very much thrown together.
This class was ultimately a waste of time. It was interesting to learn about certain social movements, but the theory behind them will put you to sleep. Lecture was not entertaining or fulfilling. You're meant to read 6 books that have literally nothing to do with what you discuss in lecture. It was just a frustrating experience.
The course is really cool. Viterna is a wonderful professor. Section can get boring at times but overall I was interested by the material covered.
Great introduction to sociology.  Viterna's lectures are certainly interesting, and you can tell that she is truly passionate about social movements.
This class is easy. Most weeks you don't have any work at all. You just have 2 papers and a take home which is also pretty easy. the material is interesting but there's nothing truly radical in the class.
This class had the potential to be a great class, but it failed in so many ways. First, it was a lot more work than you can accept for a gen-ed. Most of the readings were interesting, but given social movements are such a wide variety of phenomena it is hard to be excited about all the movements.Finally, the optional readings did not seem to be very optional--especially because during the assignments and lectured they were referred many times.
This course is taught under the assumption that everyone enrolled is involved in a social movement, and especially that everyone is a liberal student.
Hard to quantify what you learned other than broadstroke social theory. Definitely get to read through interesting examples.
Great class if you're interested in social movements but you've never studied it before. Lectures are on theory, and you read the case studies on your own and discuss them in section. For each case study, you'll apply the theory that you learned in lecture. At the end of the year you have the chance to apply all that you've learned to your own social movement of interest. Great class overall! Jocelyn is a great lecturer and you can tell she really cares about this course and her students.
I did not like this class much. Unless you are very interested in sociology or in activism do not take this course. It is entirely theory based.
Assignments are fair, but you need to actually do the readings to complete them.
This course has so much going for it, but ultimately was a somewhat unsatisfying experience. Many social movement theories and social movements were introduced, but ultimately few were explored with satisfying depth. I recommend exploring the reading list and syllabus and then choosing to study the movements or theories that interest you independently.
This class is pretty interesting. Professor Viterna is great and obviously passionate about her work. I learned a lot about social movement theory and I enjoyed it. Not too much work is required to succeed but make sure you review the books thoroughly for the papers.
take this class to discover how activism really works
The dumber you can make yourself in this class, the better time you will have. If you actually think thoroughly about why youre in this class you will inevitably end up hating yourself and everyone around you. if you actualy want to learn something AVOID THIS CLASS. Especially if Viterna is still teaching it.
Overall some of the readings and assignments are hit or miss, but the course is a great introduction to social movements and incorporates both historical movements and an emphasis on personal volunteering and activism. Viterna is a great lecturer and does a good job of presenting the evolution of social movement theory.
The more you are into social activism, the more rewarding this course is probably going to be.
Professor Viterna is great, but the class was pretty boring after a few weeks.
This class is for anyone with a general interest in social movements. There is a lot to learn about social movement theory, which can often be dry, but the cases that we talked about were fascinating.
Doesn't live up to the hype from a few years ago, but also not that hard if you're looking to learn some general social movement theory. Only requires two papers and a final paper (each of which I wrote in a night), so pretty light on workload. Sociology concentrators, I was a bit bored and disengaged, meaning if you want an easy class that's still sociology related, go for it, but don't expect to get that much out of it either. Viterna is a wonderful professor though, I just found myself wishing the class would go more in depth.
This class was most likely better when it was a small class in the Sociology department rather than a huge gen ed. The professor tries to make the lecture about participation, which is extremely difficult with so many people. The class can also be a bit preachy about activism, always pubbing various social movement involvements on campus. The essays are very simple, almost to a fault. The professor is incredibly approachable and willing to get to know you, though, which is nice.
This year the size of the class increased tremendously, so I think most of what made the class disappointing for me was due to that fact, since Jocelyn is so passionate and seems like she'd be a great teacher for a smaller class. That being said, this wasn't a great experience and I didn't learn as much as I would have liked to.
This is such an amazing and eye-opening course. And Prof Viterna is FANTASTIC!
This course provides a broad introduction to sociological theories pertaining to social movements and introduces you to a range of cases. Professor Viterna is a dynamic lecturer who models enthusiasm for her discipline and clearly cares about making information relevant and clear.
This class suffered severe gen-ed syndrome, where a well-liked small class suddenly explodes in enrollment as it is discovered to be one of the few gen-eds in a category rated above 4 on the Q and therefore falls dramatically in quality.
This class may be too hippie-dippie, because everyone thinks they're the best thing since sliced bread. If you want to learn social theory, look elsewhere. This class focuses too much on movements like Divest but doesn't help you learn WHY movements work or don't. It's pretty much a class to complain in.
On paper this class seems great, but lectures don't feel productive and I often feel like we spend 50% of the time repeating what we've already discussed.
Don't believe the hype. You will find that lectures are boring and sometimes unnecessary because time is wasted in lecture. The books are actually good. Just remember you will be reading book after book each week so save time for that. Section can be really helpful in breaking down the meaning of each book. I think that the workload itself is not that bad. There are a total of 3 essays. The first two essays are 3-5 pages. One of them is a final exam with various questions to be answered and that is at most 9 pages, but each question is about 3 pages each and it's not that bad.
Interesting books and compelling topic, but I felt that we could have dug deeper into the material.
The course material itself is not too difficult, but I don't think I learned as much as I could have in this class. The professor and TF's are all wonderful people, and discussion could be interesting. Sometimes lectures were just a little bit dull though.
This class was not as interesting as I had initially hoped. The topic of social protests sounds very interesting, but keep in mind that theory can be very dry. Still I would say that the theory will change how you analyze new social movements. For someone interested in a career in government or policy, I think it is crucial that you take a class on this kind of content. The workload of this class is really light and the grading is also really easy. You don't have to be the best writer to do well on the essays. Also the notes that Professor Viterna provides basically cover everything that you need to know.
If you're passionate about a certain cause, this class is fantastic. You pick your own case study at the beginning and follow it through until the final, so it really gives a lot of leeway for personal interests, which I enjoyed. The assignments are designed to prepare you for the final, so they were actually really helpful in drawing together a cohesive picture of what you learned in the class.
Whether or not you have activist experience, you will learn something from this course. It's a nice way to get theoretical backgrounds while also being able to do a case study on something you may have already worked on.
A lot of essays... the individual research aspect provides a great opportunity to explore a topic that you're interested in. Prof. Viterna is a good lecturer but lectures on theory got boring before long. For whatever reason it was hard to stay focused on the class...might have been the subject matter
Great class. Viterna is a passionate lecturer. The assignments are great- the way they are set up you do an in-depth exploration of three of the five segments of the course, which prepares you really well for the final. Also you get to apple the the theories of the class on a social movement you're interested in for the midterm and the final, and I loved that because I got to write about something I cared about.
Take it. That is all you need to know. Professor Viterna is the single best lecturer I've had to date. This class blends aspects of small discussion with very effective, engaging, and enlightening lecture content. (I had at least three epiphanies during the course.) Jocelyn's policies on essays and readings are completely spot on. Sections are very well run, and the course is very responsive to student input and suggestions.Just do yourselves a favor and take this course.
This course is definitely interesting and engaging. You have the opportunity to choose your own case study to research and apply theory to. I think it is a better course for junior or senior sociology majors working on their thesis; however, as a freshman, it was a great introduction in social movement theory and a great way to learn about movements throughout the world. Jocelyn is a great professor, super nice and willing to help with anything. The subject matter is interesting and the books are good - just make sure you don't leave the reading until the night you have to write the paper. Overall, it is a great course.
a lot of work but very rewarding!!
The class is an excellent opportunity to test the waters of sociology and social theory. The course won't be easy (in terms of reading, essays), but is manageable. And all work feel necessary - no busywork.
If you like social movements and want to learn about sociology theory, take it!
I took this class just for fun. I was interested in sociology and social movements, and it was intro level, so it seemed perfect. Now, I think I might consider sociology as a concentration. The professor is incredible and lectures were always super interesting. The course readings never really felt too heavy because they were so engaging. I really loved this course and I would highly recommend it to anyone who wants to try out sociology.
If you're interested in sociology, social movements, or a larger more theoretical view of social movements, this course is great.
This class is really terrific. Viterna is a great lecturer and is very eager to ensure that all students have a fulfilling experience. The course readings are very interesting. The structure of the course allows for students to pick their own movement to study. This allows for immediate application of the theory, and ensures that all students will thoroughly learn all the material.
This class will be one of the highlights of your college experience if you take it. Prof. Viterna is a really great, kind, and encouraging professor and the content is fascinating. She explains things lucidly and presents issues and debates with multiple angles. Also, it gives you a chance to pursue independent research on a case that interests you, which is a good way to learn the material in the course. It feels good to take ownership of a subject and understand it through the lens of the theories presented in lecture. The assignments are useful, and enjoyable. Very highly recommended.
If you have a case in mind you want to study, this is a great class to get that done. If not it's rather disorganized and the material is rather disjointed; but if you're really into social movements I think this is your only option.
A lot of fun, intellectually stimulating, but with many names to learn
The material in this class is really interesting. You get a lot of information on social movement theory as well as actual social movements.
The class was relatively easy but had a heavy work load. The material is interesting, and the essay topics really get you to think about the literature and the theories in new ways. Professor Viterna is an amazing professor who is very approachable and keeps your attention.
The lectures are awesome and engaging. It is not too course heavy, but make sure not to leave your three essays to the last minute (since you get to choose to write 3 out of five essays during the semester). Also choose a movement that has a lot of literature written about it so that you can analyze it easier.
Really worth it. I find that I can look at events through a different sociological lens and that was my reason for taking the class. You're going to find some intense political activists in this class, but there are intense people in every class. Also, Professor Viterna really leaves a lot of room for discussion.
This class is full of interesting information and case studies on social movements and revolutions throughout history and all around the world. As long as you approach this class with sincerity, you should perform well on the assignments and in lecture/section. The papers are manageable, and even challenging essay prompts can be workshopped with the teaching staff. A highly accessible and virtually painless way to earn a Sociology or GenEd credit.
The course is still in transition to an introductory sociology course. Upperclassmen generally found this class more enjoyable in the past (and this year), as it's liberating to study what you truly want to. However, the class format is conclusive to learning more about sociological theory/real life case studies. Viterna is also interactive and friendly, a boon which should not be understated!
Jocelyn Viterna is an excellent lecturer and this is a great introduction to sociology courses. Though I do not plan on concentrating in the humanities, this course did give me a greater amount of respect for sociology and social theory.
Viterna and the TFs (especially Theo) are amazing. All are incredibly dedicated to making the class useful. It is best if you have had previous experience studying or being in a social movement or have special interest in a social movement. Do not use this as a class to learn about social movements if you have not had previous experience before because then you will feel lost and not as invested in a class which deserves full class participation. One problem is that I still don't really understand why it's important to study social movements, though I do know how to analyze social movements.
AMAZING! The lectures are unquestionably the best I've ever sat through. Ever week I actually looked forward to TuTh at 2, because these lectures were effective, engaging, and fun. This class is not to be missed if you are at all interested in any social movement in history. You spend section and homework researching a movement to which you apply the theory taught in class. Instead of falling asleep to dense and boring theory articles, lecture provides the tools and you provide the case study. Superbly innovative distribution of labor.
This course was highly disorganized and, in my opinion, mostly a waste of time. Do not take this course if you are interested in actual social movement theory. That being said, it was a new course and some people seemed to really enjoy the course. My TF was great, the prof not so much.
This is a fantastic course! Professor Viterna is a great lecturer and is very accessible - TFs for the course were great too. The workload is very reasonable and the course progresses very logically with respect to assignments and material.
Professor Viterna is wonderful, as are the TFs.  The class environment is warm and engaging.  To get the most out of this class, attend office hours regularly to get a firm grasp on theory, start doing research for your final exam early (and be organized!), and ask lots of questions. The class doesn't have an insane workload, which gives you time to process and understand the ideas being discussed. Overall, I have no complaints about this class.
I really loved this class; it made me change my concentration to Sociology. Professor Viterna is a great lecturer and the sections are very engaging. The fact that you can do research on what you want is definitively a plus and eases the way you learn the social movement theories.
Great class to learn about social movements from around the world from a sociological standpoint. Low workload on the readings side, but you learn a lot from the case studies in lecture and the cases of other people in the class.
This class has many interesting case studies but be prepared to write, in total, five long essays. Having said that, due to the amount of research available it is not hard to write these essays.
This course changed my life for the better by exposing me to sociology. It is incredibly well taught, and although the time commitment is relatively high, you will not notice because it is so FUN TO LEARN this stuff. I doubt that there are better professors than Professor Viterna. Do yourselves a favor and take this course. Even if you are not planning on concentrating in the social sciences, you will be engaged and interested in this course.
This class is great because social movements are such common thing in the world and this class provides you with the knowledge to understand how these movements work and how they were formed
Really try to do the extra readings for the class and pay attention in lecture.  It is all very interesting
A really solid class! The content is interesting throughout, the professor and TFs are great, and the workload is both manageable and flexible. Plus you get to spend a lot of time on your own case study which is a really cool, independent way to explore social movements that personally interest you.
Great introduction to sociology
It is a great intro to sociology class.
Seemingly interesting subject matter, not a very captivating class.
Socio27 is all about what you put into it. There were students who skipped lecture, stayed silent in section, and I'm sure they did fine in the course. Other students tried hard, got to know professor Viterna, and may have had a better experience. As one of your few classes on this campus, I would take a class more inspiring.
Take this class before you leave Harvard! Jocelyn is one of the best people on this campus and you'll be lucky to learn from her!
This is not the class to take If you want to learn about the details about different social movements and how they differ.
This class is a very good and easy introduction to social movements and also provides introductions to race and gender issues. Professor Viterna's lectures are very engaging and often interactive. She and the teaching staff were very supportive.
This class doesn't focus on individual social movements extensively, so one shouldn't expect to learn a lot about a variety of movements. Despite this, students will gain the tools to think about social movements in many different ways, and especially in the current political climate, this knowledge feels very valuable. Professor Viterna is a great lecturer, and the class was fairly small when I took it, so she often would start discussions in class. I was very engaged with the material and that engagement was only encouraged by the teaching staff.
Professor Viterna is such an amazing woman with so much passion and enthusiasm for the course. Unfortunately, the course was not very structure, and it was just really disorganized. The readings were extremely long but you could basically shrink the important content to like a page. It took so much time to read things that were tangential and it became pretty frustrating. The assignments are good and there is a lot of help but I just wish the material were more interesting.
Solid course!  You'll want to join a social movement by the time the course is over.
Prof. Viterna is an amazing woman who has done some phenomenal work. Come to class with questions to ask or even visit her during her office hours. This can add some more to your classroom experience and help you formulate ideas for essays.
The section component of the class greatly detracts from the class as a whole. I did not find the section to be helpful as much as I found it to be a burden and something I dreaded attending but could not miss due to strict, but understandable, attendance policies.
Do not take this class, it's an absolute waste of time spent wading through theoretical nonsense.
It's a really good class to learn how social movements and activism have been studied in the academic world.
I don't think this class teaches all that much, beyond an introduction to how sociologists approach social phenomena.
If you are a sociology concentrator and in general like sociology, I would totally recommend this class. However, I think if you are unsure about sociology, I would take something else. I felt like the class fell short of my expectations and didn't stimulate my interest as much as I thought it would. A lot of social movement theory felt to me just like common sense based on observations of past events, and I didn't really find it useful to apply to contemporary events.
You should be interested in social justice in order to enjoy this course more.
It is much more theory than it is current events!!
Even though its reading heavy, the class is a great class to have.
It will be a lot of material, so really try to pay attention to the lectures
The essays are graded extremely subjectively. Meeting with your TF/the professor/the department writing fellow/the writing center is for the most part ineffective because it is very unlikely that they will be the ones grading your essay. The best you can do is try to follow the prompts as carefully as possible and not stray away even a little from the way things are phrased ON THE SLIDES. Even if things are said a certain way in lecture or section, writing it that way might get points docked.
It's an interesting class that isn't too time consuming
This is a MUST before you graduate in order to understand the real world.
Great way to engage in socially relevant race/class issues, very reasonable workload
wonderful way to satisfy gen-ed. As someone who has thought little about social issues before, I found the work (which is SOOO manageable) interesting, and lectures were often very moving/inspiring.
It is an interesting class but not everything you hope it will be.
This is a great course for an easy sociology pre-med requirement (and gen-ed). Viterna is a great lecturer that really takes care of her students (and is awesome in office hourse, which I wish I went to more). Essays were manageable. Keep on top of readings though. Sections were a great part of the class and I clearly won the TF lottery with Aaron Benavidez as a TF. He went above and beyond to ensure the success of his students.
This class is a great fourth class but requires very careful writing of essays, which can sometimes be graded harshly.
This class was great! Awesome to understand recent political events, way to most effectively communicate ideas related to recent political events.
Good easy USW credit, and a good intro to sociology if you're at all interested in that field. Sort of becomes a class on liberal politics at the end but you do get a really solid intro into the theory behind social movements.
This class was great! Super interesting to look deeper into current social movements that are relevant to our everyday lives (e.g. Black Lives Matter, LGBTQ, etc.). Course work is very fair -- only really picks up when you have to write the essays.
This is a great class and you'll learn about social movements. I found the excessive ease of it disappointing.
The class deals with past and current social issues that occur in the world.
Take this for your GenEd. It's laid back without being boring and the grading if very fair. This is a Harvard Gem.
no previous knowledge needed, keep up with readings
The content is amazing. Viterna has done amazing work as well, so it is an awesome experience to hear her lecture about her experiences in depth and which were very relevant to course work.
This class had the potential to be transformative, but it did not present content in a way that leaves a meaningful impact. If you are very interested in sociology, this is not the class for you.
If you are interested in learning about social movement theory or sociology in an introductory but challenging (the perfect amount of challenging!) setting, this class is for you.  Prof Viterna is so passionate and cares so much about the material and her students.  This class means something, it isn't a joke, you really learn and you learn about things that matter when you walk out of class.  If you're interested in the material and are looking for a stimulating and refreshingly challenging course (you'll do well if you really engage and learn the material; it's awesome and it changes the way you think about the world), take this class.  I loved it and am so so so happy I took it.  Take it. Do it.  You won't regret it.
It's a great class to get your US in the World Gen Ed accomplished and it's great if you're considering sociology as your possible concentration
Just be aware that this class is mostly about theory. I mistakenly thought it was going to be more about social movement case studies or social movement history but it is predominately theory. I find theory quite dry and a bit ridiculous in its lack of applicability but if theory is your thing, than this is the course for you. Regardless, it's an easy class so I guess take it if you want to finish a gen-ed requirement. Also, read the essay instructions *very* carefully. So many people screwed up essay assignments because they just didn't bother to read the instructions fully.
Great course to give an introduction to sociological thinking in a meaningful way.
I came into this class with a passing interest in social movements, but little knowledge of sociological method. The sociological aspect kind of put me off  it came off to me as methodology imported from the natural sciences and infused with vaguely left-wing normative presumptions. Perhaps sociology is just not for me. The social movements we studied were interesting, I guess, but this class was an introduction to the sociological theory of social movements, rather than to social movements per se, so keep that distinction in mind  I know I wouldn't have taken the class if I'd been aware of it beforehand.
Lectures can be a little disorganized at times but the subject matter is very interesting and easily applicable to current events.
work your butt off, and you will enjoy your butt off. this is an amazing course with amazing faculty.
I enjoyed this class. It was a laid back intro to social movements and a good way to complete USW. I wish the class covered a bit more material and wouldn't have minded faster-paced lectures or a little bit more reading.
This class is great! Take it!
don't take this class. I love social movements and i hated this course. Everything is wrong... the lectures, section, the staff, the assignments, and the readings. I felt like I wasted my time.
Great class! I wouldn't necessarily take it as an easy gen ed (mostly because I think there are easier USWs), but it was interesting and informative. Viterna can get a bit political, which could probably get a bit grating for some people. I really liked both the material and the class as a whole, and would definitely recommend it.
This is a great class and taught me new ways to look at the world. It challenges you to think more analytically about the social movements we see all over the news and history books. The teaching staff is always willing to help and helps you grow throughout the course. A very good gen ed! I am a science person but really enjoyed the papers in this class.
It's a cool class on sociology theory that you can learn about by looking at social activism that's prevalent and happening right now
This class wasn't as exciting as I hoped it would be. The lecture is too big, simply put it should be a much smaller course with discussion in lecture.
This was a fairly interesting class, not too much work. It was changed to allow one paper grade to be dropped this semester since people didn't do too well on the first one, which was nice.
Viterna is a lovely person! She genuinely cares about her students and wants them to succeed. Also the teaching staff is top notch. Go to office hours. The readings really are fascinating, so do them as much as you can. Great intro to sociology, this made me all the more sure I chose the right major. Also fun class for non-social sciences folks looking to get a Gen Ed credit.
If you have any interest at all in sociology or social movements, take this course.
If you are at all interested in sociology, do take this course. Professor Viterna's passion into the topic is evident through the lectures.
Be wary of the syllabus changing on you. This course is much much much more theory than you'd expect, less about the social movements themselves
This is a very interesting and relatable class. Professor Viterna is wonderful, and she tries to connect class material to current events. I would highly recommend this class.
This class isn't bad, but it's not really great.  You spent most of lecture talking about different movements without actually doing much discussion of sociology - it's mostly just saying "this is a movement, and this is what they want," but at the end of the day you don't really get that much out of the class.
It's a pretty interesting, low commitment course. It's a good course for when you have a challenging semester, although the delays in the lecture schedule can make it a bit difficult to predict which weeks will have an overwhelmingly large amount of work. The readings are relevant and interesting, although the course itself really highlights the incredibly liberal nature of college campuses.
This class does not require much work, but significant effort needs to be put into the essays in order to do well.
This course can be frustratingly pedantic and easy for anyone who isn't a freshman.
Very interesting
Professor Viterna is incredibly nice and also passionate about what she teaches.  It really shows in the course.
Sociology 27 is a great course and I really recommend that you take it. Not only will you learn about social movement theory, which is so relevant now (re:black lives matter, immigration rights, abortion), Professor Viterna is committed to also helping students with their writing skills. So, while the papers can be challenging, the teaching staff is really available for questions as well as the departmental writing fellow. So ask for help and start early and you'll be fine. Also just continually pay attention during the term. Professor Viterna is one of the best professors that I have had; she is very accomplished but still approachable. She also cares so much about her students. Kwan, my TF, was also great and is always willing to provide guidance. Basically, this course has great content about a unique and developing subject. Give it the time it deserves and you will be glad you took the course!
This course in the past has been highly praised and the topics are relevant to all times. This course needs some structural work but if done correctly I would recommend this course to any undergraduate. The subject matter makes you think about issues in nuanced ways and can prepare you to go in to the world as an informed citizen especially regarding how social movements can make a difference.
This class in an easy gen ed and intersting if you care about sociology or social justice. We only had three papers not including the final and they dropped our lowest grade. Readings are intersting and usually easy to understand.
it is whatever you make it and however much work you put into it
Super great course if you want to learn more about social issues and analyze movements in an academic, scholarly way. Section is a bitt rough (depending on your TF) but the lectures are incredibly engaging, and the subject matter is very interesting and relevant to college students wanting to educate themselves about the world.
A great intro course on how social movements happen. It was especially interesting to learn about current social movements that you may have even participated in (e.g. Occupy Wall Street, Black Lives Matter) and sections are extremely fun and engaging with plenty of discussion. The lectures are often too long and detailed however and we end up getting behind on material but I found it to be a really fun class nevertheless. Take this if you want to fulfill your last Gen-Ed without the stress (only three essays + final exam/essay). If you're not a strong writer or are unfamiliar with Sociological writing, they offer so much support and help you never feel lost or alone!
This is a very solid class. While the pace could sometimes move on the slow side, it covered interesting and important material. I feel like I have a much better grasp of social movements because of this course and I very highly recommend it.
its easy
This class was an information guideline to me on social movements that before hand I had no idea how to classify or even understand for that matter, but coming out of this course I felt that I could be a participating member of social movements that connected with my identities and understand what was working and why.
This course is interesting but get ready to check your privilege.
Totally take it. Viterna is great.
Very interesting course that didn't take much time a week, readings were not super necessary except when writing the essays. Essay prompts were easy and interesting, so very fun to write.
The course gives an overview of some social topics of contemporary interest in the U.S., but does so with minimal quantitative and logical rigor.
Easy workload with interesting material
This class is extremely easy. The subject matter is interesting, however it is taught in a way that requires very little critical thought and no creativity. All the assignments are easy and formulaic. For such an interesting topic, I was a bit disappointed with the mundaneness of the class.
Pretty interesting.
This class is not incredibly intensive in terms of work load, but Professor Viterna is amazing. You can learn a lot and truly engage with a variety of topics and theories. If you are at all interested in social justice and using your Harvard privilege, you should take this class.
This class is definitely an easy way to get through your gen ed but does nothing to promote academic growth as students. It needs to stop trying to hold kids hands and challenge them to think critically about the sources. The lectures were repetitive and barely got through material which is not good considering how little lecture time there is. The assignments were rigid and inflexible and stifled creative thought. If you don't care about taking an interesting/thoughtful class then this is the one for you, but if you care at all about having to think and learn from your classes then don't take it.
good course, very knowledgeable/motivated/fair professor, useful material
Easy going class with a lot of material that is presented in an understandable manner. One need not be in the social sciences to enjoy/understand what is being discussed/taught.
This class is a great intro course if you want to learn how to write a sociology paper and begin to understand some of the basic theories, however there won't be much ground breaking work being done within the assignments or the readings.
