Great topic and great professor
Course is an excellent way to read through foundations of social stratification and get a better grasp on social mobility and inequality literature. You will get the most out of the course by pushing yourself to write quality weekly papers and participating in class.
It is better to spend many hours on this course if you would like to cover all the readings and supplementary readings.
This course is a fantastic for understanding a variety of perspectives in persistent inequalities in the US and abroad.  The focus, however, seems to be on labor market concerns.
The course is great, but it is reading and time-intensive. If you are not a sociology graduate student (as I am not) it might be difficult to keep up at first.
it's a fine class but any students outside of the discipline of sociology have to be confident enough to handle feeling like a fish out of water...at times a fish in toxic water...but the struggle is worth broadening your horizons.
Definitely take it if Jason is teaching it.
Jason is sharp and approachable... the course is a great broad introduction to the field of stratification.
Terrific professor, engaging discussions, lively reading, good balance in quantitative versus qualitative approaches.
Jason is a great teacher, very open and very friendly
This is an interesting, unpretentious class where dialogue is encouraged and you gain a nice understanding of the broad field of Social Stratification as a whole.
This is a must-take, both because of the material and more importantly because of the professor. You cannot go wrong with any course Jason teachers, and the fact that this is on the qualifying exam means it makes a lot of sense to take.
Great teacher, really smart, clear, and helpful.
A very thorough grounding in the current state of inequality research. It helps enormously with your generals.
If you are a student of sociology, this course might as well be required.
If the class size were limited, I think this would be an excellent seminar.
Supposing that the course gets capped next year, it's a good overview of approaches to stratification.
Thought the course went very well, encouraged a lot of independent thinking on the topic, required students to develop effective studying strategies to grasp all material.  Might warn that students who do not have discipline to work on the material consistently throughout the semester might have trouble putting the final paper together.
It's important preparation for the sociology general exam, but if you have no background in sociology and little interest in stratification as field of research, the material might be frustrating at times.
I didn't find the discussion particularly engaging or satisfying. I didn't leave class each session feeling like we'd really gotten anywhere together. Perhaps, though, this is the nature of the social sciences.
Jason is amazing.  He will help you through the most difficult material but also push you further in the material you are most familiar with.  He is knowledgeable in many fields beyond his own.
If Beckfield is teaching, definitely take strat. In fact, take any course Beckfield teaches.
if you have to know stratification for generals, taking it with jason is probably the most painless and successful way to do it.
This is a good class to gain an overview of the range of issues in stratification.  However, be prepared to work hard consistently through the readings each week to gain the most out of the course.
Great class, take it by all means.
This class requires dedication of time and energy, particularly for those who have not studied stratification in the past.  The payoff, however, is significant, since the course provides a clear structure within which to consider the issue of social stratification.  I will be referencing material from this class for many years to come.
A very good grounding in classical sociological theory in stratification and a good grounding in certain aspects of contemporary sociological theory in stratification.
Professor Western is brilliant, and it is a great class for anyone interested in social inequality or stratification. it is also a reasonable workload.
This is an excellent course to get familiar with the core of the stratification literature. The course is demanding, but at the end it has its rewards.
This is an absolutely great course- almost an introduction to sociology. Can't recommend it highly enough.
a solid foundation in sociological writing may be necessary to receive strong grades on written assignments.
Much more economics / statistics than expected
