The course's lectures could be better.
the course wasnt bad, but the paper prompts were often quite annoying and lectures could get quite boring at times. still wasnt a bad class though, just good with a few grains of salt
Political Sociology sounded like a very practical, exciting course to which we could apply various current events, but while current topics occasionally entered conversation the intensive, extensive theories took up much of the discussion in a confusing way so that I never was quite sure of what we were talking about. If the discussion and readings are altered so that current events play in more, I think the class has potential for real improvement, but too much theory keeps students bogged down, discouraged, and disinterested. It was also often difficult to step back and understand how the different readings and units related to each other and especially how the initial ideas of legitimacy/authority/power related to the rest.
It's very time consuming but worth the work
I am not American and I decided to take this class because I wanted to learn more about American politics and about the American society in general; after taking this course, I feel I have a much better understanding of both. If you want to understand more about US politics and about the US society, take this course.
not a course for ppl who have studied gov...
This class is interesting, but has a heavy reading load.
A lot of reading, but very interesting.
the course is easy enough but the lectures were nonexistant
It is a great class but grades super hard
The course was much more difficult and confusing than expected.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. A nice intimate seminar where the material feels fresh and interesting. Professor Gest is engaging, encouraging, and makes you think about the world in a new way. This class was the reason why I went to a liberal arts school.
Dr. Gest is a great presence in the class and the readings are very well-chosen. The class covers a lot of material in a very concise way, but often I felt seminar discussions just scratched the surface of what the readings were on. In other words, the class simplified a lot of the material in a way that was not completely fulfilling for me.
Great class! Great teacher!
It is hard but if you do the work and do all the readings (which there are a lot of) the course discussion is very interesting. There is not that much graded work which is good.
Take a class with Justin Gest.
Incredible class.
Justin Gest is the man
