Do the readings and apply yourself in section and this will be your most favoirte course.
Teaches you economic sociology, focusing on various economies including human goods, the household and global economies.  It is interesting, well organized and not too difficult.
Take this course, especially if you are an ec concentrator
Interesting class, but not as easy as one would think for non-sociology concentrators.
The section component of this class is really good.  The teaching staff is great and the readings are relatively short and engaging.  Occasionally, the course seems to feel repetitive (towards the end especially), but the things you learn definitely have implications on business and even home economics.  If you like sociology and you like money, you'll probably like this course (assuming you can get in through the lottery).
This is is an extremely thought provoking class that will retool the way that you think about money and social life. Prof. Garip is great and has a lot of wonderful things to teach you. If you're open to it, you'll find yourself really impressed by how interesting economic sociology actually is and the potential it holds for being a very important field in the near future.
to take this course for the section leaders and readings and depth of information
Lot of reading, but worth it!
All the course readings are online, lectures are so concise that they often end early, and the sections are great. Overall, awesome class. DO IT! Worth the lottery if there is a lottery.
Great lectures and material!
This class has great readings that aren't hard. I would definitely take this class. Very interesting and not too much work.
Take this course if you're open to new ways of thinking and approaching ideas that we normally automatically categorize into discrete fields. It's a ton of fun. And offers tons of good conversational topics for dates interestingly enough.
section was horrible, lectures weren't that interesting. don't take as an elective-there are other classes at harvard that are more intellectually stimulating
extremely interesting topic---no matter in where your interests lie, you WILL find the course material to be engaging.
It's easy and fairly interesting. It's a good elective.
You will leave the course with a more open mind
Interesting material that is relevant to our everyday lives. Very manageable workload. Professor Garip seems really friendly and willing to talk, and work, with students.
Take this.  No other course at Harvard has been so intellectually engaging yet applicable to real life - makes me think about important issues of economic inequality in a much more nuanced way.  Professor Garip is the most personable, engaging, caring professor.  If Kim and Cassi are still the TFs, they are very approachable, flexible, and give plenty of useful feedback.  Assignments were fair.  Readings were manageable and always interesting - at no point did I read something and think "wtf?"
This is such a fun and incredibly interesting course, and the assignments were easy and fair. Although the material in lecture / section overlapped, section really drove home the main points made during the lecture that week, and if you attended both then studying for the final exam was painless and even fun.
surprisingly well-organized for a course being taught for the very first time! and you'll have a blast with Prof. Garip.
This is a great class to take, both lecture and sections are interesting. Feliz is a great lecturer and I am very happy this class is now offered.
I think because it was a new class there were some kinks that needed to be worked out. When speaking with a student from princeton, she took the exact same class there with the exact same syllabus.
Awesome course. Def. take it if you're even thinking about it
Great course for a combination of sociology and economics!
Definitely take it
Keep up with the readings!
Soc137 is a very interesting class that covers variety of everyday-life topics using sociological theory.
This course is awesome!  It takes a great approach to looking at the economics of sociology by analyzing material that relates to real life and the business world simultaneously.  FANTASTIC!
Take this course to get interesting outside perspectives on economics.
If you are an economics major, this course is a great one to take because it allows you to use your economic knowledge and apply it to everyday situaitons.
I really enjoyed Professor Garip and Cassi-both are extremely approachable and knowledgeable.
Do not take it unless it's restructured.
I took this course my senior spring, and it is BY FAR my favorite class at Harvard. I truly enjoyed the material, lectures, and section. I was writing a thesis and there were times where I went to class a little sleepy. Surprisingly, Professor Garip's lectures woke me up and not once did I lose track. She's an excellent lecturer and she's very interested in the topics she covers which makes her classes that much better!
Great course. Keep up with the readings so that you'll be able to participate in section
This was one of the most well-organized and engaging courses I have had the pleasure of taking here, and the teaching staff was extremely responsive and interested in the students and the course material is extremely applicable to modern life.
Senior spring.
Interesting class, not terribly demanding, but the section/lectures are pretty boring.
Great and interesting course with a manageable workload.
More work then your average sociology course, very much based on doing the readings.
Definitely have an interest in economic sociology. It's a pretty easy class, and there are some great readings and lectures, but it can be a tad repetitive after a while. Professor Garip is a good lecturer though! The final paper and final exam is not necessary though--could have just picked one! There were things not on the syllabus that we were expected to do (in class presentations, weekly posts), so make sure to ask about that before you take the class.
Makes you think about our social relations and economic transactions in a whole different, really enriching way. Overall a really strong course. Filiz is dedicated and adorable
Good class. Not too much to handle.
Prof. Garip is a very kind, understanding professor clearly passionate about her field. However, lectures often felt redundant and a bit fluffy, without deep substantive information; guest lectures would be helpful to make the class more engaging and hear from the authors we discuss. The course was helpful for teaching major themes for the intersection between economics and sociology and touched upon interesting topics, but it just often felt there could have been much more to the lectures and class overall; I had high expectations from hearing about previous years of the class but it didn't quite meet my expectations and just felt a bit lifeless at times. But for an introductory class for non-sociology and non-ec students the class could be very interesting, and for a senior year elective the course was enjoyable, not too much pressure, and exposed the class to a variety of interesting and important topics relevant to our lives.
Nice easy introduction to economic sociology. Very qualitative papers rather than quantitative, so if you want more statistics and numbers to back up the assertions, you may be disappointed. If you're comfortable trusting a few interviews as evidence, then this class is for you.
As a student with economics background, this class presents a very interesting and useful (if not always convincing) alternative look at how the world operates.  It is a good way to keep an open mind and challenge your assumptions.
This class is all about the readings.  Do the readings and you will succeed.  I had higher expectations about this class as economics and sociology are very relevant topics, but it was a bit of a disappointment.  This class is very surface level and doesn't allow students to discuss issues at a much deeper level.  Had a lot of potential, but definitely did not live up to what was expected.
This is an amazing class that change your perspective on how social marginalization works and how networks act and react. The Professor gives engaging lectures and facilitates great discussions
This class had interesting material but sometimes very repetitive.
This class was super interesting. Make sure you do the readings if you want to get things out of this class. The section powerpoint summaries were really helpful. The TF was very devoted too. Overall I really like this class.
Take this course if you are a sociology concentrator going into finance or consulting. Also, this would be an interesting course for an ec concentrator or a gov concentrator to take just to see how sociologists deal with economic phenomena.
I really enjoyed the material in this class. Lectures were really enjoyable and most of the readings were interesting.  You should really try to take this class if you can make the cut with the lottery!
Painless elective that brings up some fairly interesting ideas.
This is a great class, especially for econ majors who are used to studying the world under the "rational model" where all humans behave rationally. It presents the sociological perspective on phenomena that don't make sense if you just look at them from an economic perspective. Things get simple at times, but that's only because everything makes so much sense. You don't think about things a certain way until you hear it said in this course, and then you have terminology and research that helps you put what makes intuitive sense into more formal terms.
This class is not difficult at all, especially if you split up readings amongst a group.  The research paper was interesting to do, and the exam content was fair.  The wording of the final was somewhat confusing, so be sure to check about that.
This is a very good introductory economic sociology course. Professor Garip is great and does a job teaching this course.
fairly easy/straightforward class but repetitive and a bit dry/boring
This class is great for people who are interested in learning about basic economics but don't want to have p-sets.
Professor Garip is an amazing lecturer and EunSIl is the best TF! Concepts were very interesting but also not too hard to understand.
This class is great and very interesting. However, I would strongly suggest to anyone to not take this class just because it's easy because it is not and is challenging at times.
It's a course with great materials and approaches some interesting questions.
This is a great class, if you aren't sure whether you are interested in Sociology, this class is definitely a class that will change your mind. Not too many assignments and the professor is great. I would definitely recommend this class.
Professor Garip is really nice and knows her stuff. Lecture is clear, has interesting material and relevant movies/documentaries/video clips. The topics this course covers are beyond interesting especially for an economic concentrator as it provides a sociological perspective on important issues and fields. Recommend for anyone interested in social/economic trends or developments. Very relevant course, section has a little more work to it and had both a final paper and final exam but was not hard and was overall rewarding!
You will take away more from this class than most you will take at Harvard.
Very basic and unenthusiastic course.  Not worth the time.
This course is graded harshly and is less interesting than it sounds; although I still learned a decent amount in the course.
This class gave a good, quick knowledge over many different topics and therefore you learned a lot about many different circumstances and didn't exactly delve deeply into just a few, which I personally liked about the course.
This is a fun class with very interesting and thought provoking topics.
Do all the readings! I would have gotten so much more out of the class if I had put more time into it. I know that should seem obvious, but go into this class with that mentality from the beginning. Great class, really nice teaching staff.
This survey class is an excellent introduction to economic sociology, you will become very familiar with the major authors and works in the field. If you are planning to write a senior or master's thesis in this discipline, this class is perfect for you to be exposed to the authors and to develop a research proposal
The material can be bland but the research paper is fun to write.
really interesting class. not that much work but the final paper was due the day before the final exam so that was bad scheduling
Good course for non-econ and non-socilogical conentrators. Gives overview of both fields (more sociology)
it's a very chill class with minimal work
A good opportunity to see the intersection between sociology and economics.
The class is boring after awhile but there are not that many assignments and the professor is good.
Just do the readings and you'll be fine as long as you have a general idea of what each reading was about and the basic concepts behind it. Professor Garip is SUCH a nice person and she's really passionate about what she does.
Midterm and Final were very difficult
Besides how messed up the midterm was, which they corrected, everything about the class was interesting. One of my favorite classes I've taken here.
A really easy elective class but most of the grade is determined with the final and final project in exam period.
Do the readings and summarize them all well.
Great class. I would definitely recommend it for all sociology and economics concentrators.
do readings you'll be fine
Gem
This class covers very interesting topics, but the midterm and final were difficult and having both a final exam and final paper due one day after the other was stressful.
This class is better than other sociology classes I have taken, but I still don't like sociology.
Tests are grader harshly but curved, depends on your TF how hard the paper is graded.
This course is easy but not very fulfilling.
I will tell you that this course has a super super interesting subject matter. Do the readings and it's all good from there. If you do, lecture makes sense, section is simple, presentations are a breeze, and tests are not stressful. Take this class.
This is a very interesting class that is relevant to life. A lot is learned about aspects of everyday life such as work and money. The readings were interesting and applicable.
Really interesting material but expect to do a fair amount of work
This class was very interesting and not too time intensive! Definitely go to lecture!
This is a great sociology class to take- especially for non economics majors who want to learn a sociological perspective on how people handle working in the US.  All the topics were super interesting, Professor Garip is awesome and the material is not difficult at all- she lets you out of class 10 min early almost every time and you get to watch a clip of a movie/tv show at the beginning of each class. Take it!
I absolutely loved this course. We covered so many interesting and relevant topics, and Professor Garip is an excellent lecturer.
It's not a good course.  Boring and surprisingly difficult.  It seems attractive because of the low work load, but it's absolutely not worth it.
I really loved this class. The lecture is really good and the readings were great. It's not hard at all so it's a good fifth class. There were definitely a lot of people in the class who didn't take it seriously, but if you did the reading you got a lot out of it and learned a lot of interesting material.
This was a truly terrible class, I'm sorry to say. Nothing happened in lecture, so the midterm and final crushed everyone out of nowhere because no one had any idea what the material was.
This is a class about reading. Are you a good reader? Lectures are very boring and nothing is taught. Assignments are based strictly on readings. This was the worst sociology class I have ever taken.
Provides a nice counterpoint to Ec 10 and is pretty easy and interesting. If you're looking to balance out your schedule, this is a good class
It's easy and interesting! Professor Garrip is super sweet. No stress, but final exam and final paper.. a little rough.
This course is very interesting and applicable to everyday life.  Prof. Garip is a very good lecturer! There are a lot of readings though
You need to go to lecture. It's actually very interesting.
Be aware that the course does have quite a bit a work towards the end since there is both a final paper and a final exam.
Not a lot of work but not easily graded.
Stay on top of the readings - it is important to know the general concepts/summary behind each one when you are in the midterm and final. Helpful to break them down with a study group. Other than that, this is a great course that gives an alternative, "softer" perspective on issues usually dominated by the economic school of thought.
The professor of this course is fantastic! She is incredibly sweet and passionate about her work and her field. Professor Garip took the time to learn all the student's names and talk to them about their projects. I do say, that your enjoyment of the course is also affected by your TF. I had a particularly bad TF, but Professor Garip's niceness made up for it.
Great class with relatively little work and really interesting! Be prepared to do the reading as that is what the midterm and final are based on.
easy a
As an econ major, I especially enjoyed this alternative perspective on certain sides of the economy we never talk about, like the household and the informal economy. A really great selection of readings, especially as you get later into the course, and it also doesn't require an immense amount of work.
Material is fairly easy and straight-forward - exam curves were more difficult than I excpected.
There is quite a bit of reading for this course. The lectures are quite interesting and keep you engaged in the material. The midterm was graded very strictly (seemed fair though as it was curved). Missing section requires 3 pg response papers which can become difficult if you need to miss section multiple times. The final paper could use a bit more guidance in order to help students formulate useful topics or research questions.
Interesting course. Looks at economic concepts through the perspective of a sociologist. Brushes the surface of a lot of interesting concepts, and a very manageable workload.
If you're interested in getting a lot out of a class, this course is probably not for you. However, it does have a relatively light workload, is not difficult, and does cover some interesting topics.
Good class to take Pass/Fail or as a 5th course. Interesting subject material!
This class has some good readings, and if you've never learned anything about economic sociology, this is a good survey course about some of the issues that are encapsulated within this field. When it comes down to it though (at risk of sounding harsh), this class is intellectually unrigorous. If you have any experience with mainstream sociology or economics outside of classical models, than it's not going to teach you much unless you commit yourself to deep-reading everything, which you probably won't have time to do. Economics isn't just about money/numbers, minority and women aren't as well connected to job opportunities, not all jobs are 9-5 and have a salary, it's hard to put a value on certain kinds of good like sex/organs, globalization means people not only trade but also interact more across borders. If you knew these things, than nothing you will learn in lectures will surprise you.
It's a good class with much potential but TFs need to be better trained to lead respectful and fruitful discussions.
This class is interesting, although it didn't really excite me as much as I would have liked!
Not a ton of work in this class--While it is an easy class, it is not very stimulating and the material can be boring and repetitive at times.
This course is fun and easy across lectures and sections, though a great depth of knowledge is expected/required on exams.
Take this class if you are interested in economics but don't want to take Ec 10. It introduces parts of the economy through different lenses.
Take this class if you are interested in Sociology, Economics, or the intersection of both. It gives a social explanation for economic life. Very relevant to real life. Not crazy interesting, but very easy material.
The midterm and exam were hard.  The questions tended to be confusing and often some ideas werent fully clarified which led to mistakes on the midterms and exam.
its easy but not very interesting
I loved this course! The professor is fantastic, and I loved going to her office hours just to talk. This class will open up discussions that are so pertinent to our world. I highly recommend that you take this course!
Super interesting. super easy. do it
Take this class and do the readings! Very organized and Professor Garip does a great job of framing the lectures to certain themes.
great class, interesting information
The course was very interesting. As someone with a quantitative background, it was fascinating to hear the sociologists qualitative perspective on these complex relations in the economy.
I took it pass/ fail and didn't have to try hard to pass
I think every male at Harvard should take this class! The weeks about the labor market and gender divisions were fascinating and the course in general was great. Very low work, but keep up with the readings or the exams will be difficult.
There is a lot of reading, which is not necessary to succeed in the class.
She is a fantastic lecturer
do the readings to make studying easier
It is a lot of reading, but you will understand how markets work in the real world. If it is being offered, please do take it.
If you are disillusioned by the rigidity of classical economics, take this class. It will bring new insights into the economic activities around us.
Take this course! The teaching staff are amazing and the material is extremely interesting and applicable to daily life. I found myself really excited to do the readings every week. Regardless of whether you are a social science concentrator, this is a fantastic course for anyone.
This course has all the classic components of a gem class trying to assert itself and be taken seriously. What the course lacks in substance it makes up in density. Work density, that is: arduous weekly assignments, lecture attendance sheets, a minimum requirement to use ten scholarly sources in a 1500 word paper, lecture presentations, a policy to withhold check-pluses except for "especially high-quality work -- the sort of comment youd hear or read in a graduate student seminar" (direct quote from a TF email). This is what courses do when they fear students will skip and slack, but ironically, this itself is a lazy solution that doesn't address the fundamental problem: If you want students to take your course seriously, you have to conduct a serious course. Lecture absence damages participation grade, but it is Professor Garip herself who has missed the most lectures. Even when she does show up to class, she's a part-time professor at best: a movie clip barely tangentially related to the course is screened for 15 minutes at the onset of every class, and a lecture has rarely gone past 12:45, often closing with Garip stating that she is tired or has nothing more prepared for the day. While students get penalized, she gets Harvard tenure. The course's lack of substance is disappointing enough; the excessive workload is simply insulting. You can't just create laborious assignments and expect that to boost course rigor. Quality, not quantity, is what distinguishes real courses from gems.
It's an easy class for Sociology concentrators (especially after sophomore tutorial) but can be redundant when you've taken multiple sociology classes before. It is also challenging for those without sociology background with all the various sociologists we covered in class.
very structured course, know hats expected, very informative but a little boring.
research paper and final is a killer. class is simple, but lots of participation work.
Good class with cool subject matter. Reading get a little draining though
The material is interesting, but the lectures are pretty pointless and boring.  Section is fun and interesting though!
I personally wan't as interested in the topic area as I thought I would be. Unless you're very into economics, this class probably isn't for you. It's not too difficult and is structured pretty well, just hard to engage with. Prof. Garip, however, is a badass who is super smart and knows both sociology and economics very well!
The weekly assignments make you keep up on all of the readings, but most of them are pretty interesting, much of the content very self-explanatory.
At first, "Oh this class looks relevant to my life, the workload isn't too bad, and seems like the Professor and TF's have reasonable expectations..." ---- WRONG! It's a trap! ------Don't fall for it like I did. Professor Dobbin's course usually offered in Fall is a much better introduction to Sociology.
