Great class! It was new but was very well run. Readings are interesting if you're at all interested in sociology or healthcare disparities (albeit some are a little dry) and lecture is great. Really helps shape your mind around healthcare inequality and how to think about the many mechanisms in play. Helpful for any pre-med too!
Solid class if you're interested in the sociology side of global health. Relatively painless, readings are not too difficult but exams can be a little tricky sometimes. Pretty easy overall though.
This class is awesome. The professors are so approachable and the lectures are so interesting, I wish they were longer. We spent enough time on different topics and different theories concerning inequalities in health that I feel I have a good grip on the topic and can use the skills from this class to analyze any new information. Take this class if you care about people and inequality and want to learn from super cool professors.
A really well-designed course. The readings, for the most part, are short and engaging, and the themes of each week progress nicely from general ways of conceptualizing health inequality to mechanisms by which these inequalities are reproduced. The teaching staff are so invested and kind (Beckfield is such a cutie), and assignments totally reasonable. A good compliment to SW25 as well.
It's a great chance to gain exposure to literature on health inequalities and think about how policy and social structures impact health outcomes in the US and around the world. Jason and Ben are a fun team to have in the lecture hall. You leave with a new understanding of the factors beyond medical care that determine our wellbeing day-to-day.
This is a good course. Take it if you are interested in the subject material. I would say it is not particularly magnetic for those not passionate about health.
Take this course! It should be required for all pre-meds, and any sociology concentrator should find the course interesting. This course explores health disparities from an entirely different approach than many other courses at Harvard do. You will start to see every aspect of human life differently and learn to critically analyze health disparities.
Very interesting class with an extremely manageable work load! Awesome teaching staff and an awesome class over all even for a non sociology concentrator!
It's a good class, not a lot of work and interesting discussions.
Great class overall. Will probably get better since this was the first year it was taught. Very interesting and applicable material.
This is a great class!  Really interesting material, manageable work (readings aren't too long and are fun to read), fair grading, and great teaching staff!
Great class if you're interested in global health inequalities and their explanations
Very interesting readings and course syllabus; not very "difficult" but discussions in lecture and section give you a chance to actually THINK in a class instead of regurgitating memorized information.
Fantastic class with an incredible, dedicating teaching staff. Well thought out assignments that were clearly carefully selected for the course - never feel like you're doing busy work!
It's an interesting course. Not one you'll gain an enormous amount from, but enough.
Depending on who your TF is, this course is AMAZING. If you can get Aaron as your TF I highly suggest it. Section was not only fun and engaging, but it was also very informative. Aaron contextualized the concepts taught in lecture in a way that we could all understand and relate to. He also made sure that we were heard not only when it came to sharing our opinions but also when it came to feedback. Lecture for this class was fun/engaging/entertaining at times and then extremely disengaged at others. Very hit or miss. I definitely recommend this class though because it provides basic frameworks to think about inequalities not only in health, but beyond.
Great class for anyone interested in public health with a sociological lens. You get out of it what you put in, though - make sure you go to lecture & section if you want to learn as much as possible.
This class was a lot easier than I anticipated. I wish that it had been more challenging, but perhaps there is an upper limit on how difficult this material can be. That said, it was a really good class for getting an overview of the material, and it gave me a much deeper understanding of what determined health differences around the world. There were times when I was glad to have ammunition from the readings in my discussions with friends and family about issues such as race, gender, and class.
If you are interested in social policy and public health this class is for you. Beware that this might change the next time it is offered but as an introduction class I thought it was comprehensive and came full circle.
Great class, professors are brilliant and if they keep it the same size in future years, you'll likely see a discussion or participatory element in lecture as well as section. I learned a ton about health inequalities, both within the US and on a global scale. It made me think differently about how different policies can alter real lives, sometimes in unexpected ways, and how there are so many variables that affect health that we might not even be aware of. It also encouraged me to think about my own health differently!
The professors for this course are great!!!! They are so smart and their own research makes them a perfect fit for the course. The readings for this course are really eye-opening as they discuss associations between race/ethnicity, education, gender, neighborhoods, etc. and health. The fact that health care can actually create health disparities, or increase them is so interesting and part of the basis for the course's emphasis on how society has designed the health inequalities that exist. I really recommend this course to any premed, sociology concentrator, or someone who wants to understand health inequalities that they have experienced or witnessed at the individual or collective level.
Superb course! Great instructors and interesting material!
Overall good class, easy introduction into sociology if you've never taken a class before but not very challenging or stimulating for concentrators. Jason gives great lectures and the readings are really cool, especially when considered in relation to other weeks' readings. Not a lot of work, most of it is just busywork. Exams are fair but grading seems arbitrary.
Wonderful class! Beckfield is a great professor, and the material is interesting throughout the whole course. Really important topics of health disparities for everyone to think about, and even as a senior in sociology, it helped me to think about inequality and health in new ways. Absolutely loved it and it's one of the few classes I've taken that I think everyone at Harvard should have to take!
This class was the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. Aaron is a great TF, and Beckfield is an amazing professor. Would highly recommend to any fellow pre-med who wants to become a more knowledgable doctor about health disparities. I learned a lot. It won't help you a lot for the MCAT, but will make you a more conscientious doctor and make decisions about the society in which you practice medicine, considering the social determinants of health.
waste of time
Sociology 146 is an amazing class! I highly recommend you take Sociology 146. I learned so much by taking this class. By taking Sociology 146, I learned about various health determinants that play important roles in our everyday lives. I learned how one's socioeconomic status, education, race, gender, genetics, and neighborhood can affect one's health. This class is a great combination of sociology, medicine, and policy. This class taught me concepts that are very interesting, important, and relevant to everyday life. In addition, Sociology 146 is extremely well taught. The professor and TFs make sure that every student understands the course material. I am so glad that I took Sociology 146. I highly recommend that you take this class!
Really interesting class! Very well-taught and too difficult. Good for anyone interested interested in stem, social sciences, etc. But be aware this is a SOCIOLOGY class and not really a health class.
This class is super laid back but also informative and great for anyone who wishes to go into medicine or any health-related career. The professor and TF's are definitely the best I have seen at Harvard so far, and are so willing to help you learn and think critically about social issues and health inequalities. Readings are not boring at all, and discussions in sections are so helpful. Highly recommend!
This course is incredibly thought provoking and should be essential for everybody considering a career in health. I am not pre-med and still had a spectacular experience. The readings are really interesting... do them! They aren't exhaustive.
Really great class with a really great staff. You'll learn a lot, but you won't be completely swamped in work.
AARON IS AN AMAZING TF. If you get him, this will be the best class ever.
This class is very  very interesting and provides you with an awareness of the social determinants of health. Also easy to follow along with and get to know the professors. The section component is very helpful
This course is very good. It's a great class for someone who is interested in health and would like to gain a social-science perspective on health. I had never taken a sociology course, and it was a wonderful introduction to the field. Lecture and section were always interesting, and the readings were very manageable.
If you have any remote interest in health and/or inequality, please please please take this class. This is probably the most interesting class I have taken at Harvard; the material is actually relevant and applicable to life. You don't have to be a premed or sociology concentrator to appreciate this class, anyone can gain something from taking this. This is one of those few amazing classes that teach you a lot but are not stressful at all (**very** low workload, which was important to me as a premed taking orgo). I would take this class again!
I loved this class! I had not taken any sociology / health inequities class before this. However, this class was super accessible for anyone ready and willing to engage with the material. Also, the teaching staff was amazing and very helpful and eager to see students succeed in the class. The readings for the class were also great and will really make you more aware of so many health inequalities that exist, especially in the US. This class has really inspired me to pursue this topic further (I'm a junior now so I definitely wish I had taken it earlier). Take this class! It's very manageable and actually a super interesting course.
If you are looking for a sociology class that is both a good introduction to health inequality and is not too difficult, choose this class. It is not exceptionally hard and the course material is very accessible.
This class will hold you to high standards but will also reward your effort. You are expected to synthesize the material, which can be difficult when you don't fully process some of the individual pieces, but just by putting the effort and putting your opinion and whatever you've managed to synthesize out there will be reward by the TF and you be given clarification and such for it that will really help on exams and such.
This was a great class overall! Professor Beckfield is so funny and enthusiastic, and lectures go by quickly and are always engaging! The readings are interesting and not to hard to read, and the exams are very doable. I learned a lot from this class! Take this if you're interested at all in health or sociology!
Great class if you want a deeper understanding of things presented in global health courses especially.
This is a great course. It starts off slow - don't be discouraged! Beckfield is amazing and wants you to do well. Aaron is also amazing. You will learn a lot and find the workload very manageable.
Very interesting class, would recommend to ALL premed folks to have a more well-rounded perspective on the health, outside of just science. Professor Beckfield is very engaging and kind, and Aaron was one of the best TFs I have ever had during college! Mostly manageable reading load per week with interesting content, sometimes the readings got very sociology-jargon-y but it was an interesting glimpse into the world of the social sciences!
Really awesome class, it looks at health inequality through many lenses. Each lecture taught me so much yet went by so quickly, and section solidified and supplemented the lectures really nicely.
Take this course!! You will love Professor Beckfield and appreciate all the material he shares with students. If you are interested in sociology, public health, or social policy, definitely join and you will learn lots! Shopping week and the beginning may seem less exciting because it's establishing basic definitions, but you will need these tools to understand the rest of the course (where we learn how factors such as education, neighborhoods, access to healthcare and overall social status can impact health in surprising and counterintuitive ways) which is super relevant and fascinating to learn about.
I really enjoyed this class. Assignments were reasonable, lectures were interesting, and section was very helpful. I did find it a little intimidating as a science concentrator who has never taken a sociology class.
The class is a gem at Harvard! Professor Beckfield is hilarious and really makes the sociology class interesting and comforting for students like me who have never taken a sociology class before.
The class lacked structure, but it's fairly easy with good teaching staff and not too difficult exams. I wish we learned more, but overall not a bad introductory course.
This class is incredible! Professor Beckfield is so enthusiastic and the readings are super interesting! Take it :)
Low workload, but grading can be annoying in this class. Exams do not test understanding of material but rather your ability to remember lists of facts.
This course was great. The lectures were a little boring, since a lot of the things discussed were common sense, but the class was a great way to learn about health inequalities. Good for premeds and anyone else who wants to learn about health.
This class is really awesome! You get a really broad overview of global health issues, as well as an introduction to sociology. Very enjoyable and straightforward class.
This course offers a fantastic overview of population health and the disparities that impact health.
Beckfield is a baller. Had a wonderful TF in Aaron as well. Very rarely do you see a lecture that is illustrative of the readings but also pushes them a bit further. One of a few must-take classes in sociology. If this is a first sociology class, it'll be okay but would be more life changing if you've taken at least one other one (especially an introductory one).
really interesting class if you engage in the readings and really buy in
Class is unique in content and very relatable to society.
Take this class! Definitely one of the most interesting and easiest classes, especially if you are interested in global health/are premed. Readings are spread out, with around 2 papers to read before each class. Of course, reading is basically unnecessary in general, and Beckfield makes going to lectures enjoyable. Expect to spend one hour or less each week, mostly spent on writing a memo every week for section. Midterms are more involved and you will have to go through and understand the readings, though if you know your stuff the midterms should be quite easy. Grading is easy and the section TFs are great. Aaaron truly tries his best to provide support in every way to help you do well in the class. Overall, this class was educational and entertaining for minimal work.
Lectures are very engaging and interesting, participation is encouraged. There is a fair amount of reading but it is diverse and usually quite interesting. Section was very engaging and TF Aaron provided great discussion
This class is low stress yet interesting. As a non-premed STEM concentrator with no sociology knowledge, I found the concepts interesting and applicable to my other classes. If you have a good TF and/or have the ability to succinctly remember different authors' theoretical stances, the exams are easy to ace.
This course felt kind of like a patchwork to me. Some topics were covered well and others less so, and doesn't always connect them in a coherent way. It does go through lots of relevant topics in looking at the sociology of heatlh though.
Professor Beckfield is awesome!!! I loved this class - it really taught me a lot about various aspects of Global Health through a sociological lens; something which is very important for anyone interested in the subject/health, or really anything. The class is framed as an inequalities-based class, so even though it is on health, the concepts you learn are broadly applicable. Professor Beckfield is one of the only health sociologists at Harvard so definitely try to take a class with him while you are here. Also, if Aaron is still TFing, he's the best!!
This class will give you the tools to approach health inequality from a variety of viewpoints! It's very informative and can help with an other future sociological study.
