This class will give you a good overview of different challenges facing the American education system, but won't explore the topics in any significant depth. Take if you need an easy elective or are interested in gaining a basic understanding of issues in education.
If you are at all interested in Education, this class would be a great class to take! The material is well taught and thoroughly covers a large range of material.
The professor is not the strongest lecturer and I probably wouldn't have shown up to lecture much if they didn't take attendance. What made the class ultimately extremely worthwhile was having Nicole as my TF. Nicole was well-informed, prepared, funny, interesting and a joy to have as a section leader. She really made the material accessible.
Good course, easy requirements, however lecture is difficult to follow and not always helpful
Lectures can be a bit dry/boring but if you're interested in education, then definitely take it!
the course material is interesting but the class is extremely inconclusive and felt slightly disjointed
The readings and course materials are great to dig into and apply to our lives/experiences, but the lectures were very tough to sit through. Be prepared to have your short papers graded unreasonably harshly and receive very little comments on where you went wrong if you did.
There are other education courses offered that are more applicable to the US education system. This class does a good job of putting the education system in context with other countries but it is not as strong on exploring the education system in the US. I would recommend taking another class on education first and then following it with this one to place it in a broader context.
Lectures are less than exhilarating, but the sections make up for it. The workload is light and manageable, and some of the reading is interesting (even though more anecdotal at times than innovative or groundbreaking).
This is an interesting class if you like the material. Lectures are dry but sections are well run. The subject matter is very accessible making assignments easy to complete. However, the teaching staff has very specific expectations for assignments which can make it hard to earn good grades on the assignments if the expectations aren't specifically met. Not a hard class but won't inspire you.
Lectures are not the most gripping, but sections and readings are excellent. If you're interested in the material, this is a great course to take.
Great class if you are interested in education.
While the subject matter is incredibly interesting and there aren't a lot of education courses at Harvard, the lectures are terrible.  Not worth taking this course because of the lectures.
This class is a great introduction to sociology. the materials is really interesting and it's just helpful stuff to know. The teaching staff is great, particularly Nicole and the rest of the TFs!
Professor Brinton was really really not good, which is unfortunate. There are so few classes on education at Harvard and so many students interested in education, I wish the school could find a professor capable of giving coherent lectures.
I have very mixed feelings about this course. Though retrospectively I learned a lot, I really didn't enjoy the course in the moment because lecture's were such a struggle to get through. Doing the reading and writing assignments and section/meeting with my TF is where I really learned in this course. However, I no longer want to go into a career in education.
Do the reading, they are really interesting and key to the class.
A good course if you want an intro into some current issues in the American education system; if you're looking for something a little more in-depth, though, the course might not be totally useful. Also be prepared for some disorganized/repetitive lectures; the readings are really the most important thing.
This class has really great reading and gives a good foundation in education theory. Nicole's section is really great, although lectures are very dry.
Overall, it is a great class, but there were some contradictions along the way.I found it strange that we were supposed to submit our papers with ID numbers so as to make the grading "blind," but we would discuss our papers in fairly extensive detail (before our TF could even reasonably look through them) in section, as early as 3 hours after submission. This contradiction aroused a great deal of suspicion and led me to believe that my TF was taking into consideration the identity of the writer in the grading process, and this identity-based bias would only be exacerbated subconsciously by the fact that the course policy ineffectively attempted to eliminate it. If the papers were truly being graded blind, then we should not have had to discuss out papers in section, at least not in such detail.
Very boring.
take Nicole's section! Completely makes class worthwhile
This course often gets low Q guide ratings. I don't really know why. The reading list is great and reasonable, the topic is fascinating, and I learned a lot. Lecture isn't the most exciting, but I'm not a huge fan of super-showy lectures, anyway. This is a great course for Social Studies concentrators who need a focus field class related to education or who are interested in the theoretical framework for understanding education.
lectures are painful to sit through, the course material is boring, seriously think twice before enrolling and take this only if you have a great interest or plan to work in the field of education
the class is stress free because you're told exactly what is expected of you; the reading is reasonable; don't underestimate the essay grading- but your tf will always be available to tell you how to improve on the next one
The readings are super interesting and Nicole runs sections very well. Lecture is less interesting but does improve once more advanced topics are covered. Take this class if you have interest in the field of education in particular.
Many of these comments will say that Professor Brinton is not a good lecturer. I recommend that you go talk with her during her office hours, because she is a wonderful scholar, and you will get to know her point of view, which she purposefully leaves out of the course for the sake of objectivity. When you talk about these topics with her in office hours, it really comes to life, and you will gain so much more from this course afterward.  Also, make sure you do the readings. There isn't a lot, and since the whole point of section in this course is discussion, it's so painfully obvious AND frustrating when someone hasn't done the readings for the week, and is just pulling things out of his/her hat.
It was a good class and I learned a lot about he current issues in education.
That the issues presented in this class are definitely worth understanding
Good class that gives the student a foundation in the problems in contemporary education.
If you are interested in education and want to get a great overview on the American education system, I would highly recommend this class.
Everything is great about this course about Professor Brinton's lectures. She really should focus on the arguments in the lectures and give us examples. She is the expert, we want to know examples for what she thinks.
Feel as though the course was poorly organized and poorly run. I was interested in the subject matter, but unsatisfied with the way it was presented.
This class is fun, informative, and not that hard. I would highly recommend this course for a sociology requirement or just for an elective.
I would suggest that you definitely have an interest in learning more about education and the educational inequalities and disadvantages among students of differing socioeconomic backgrounds.  That being said, the readings were very interesting and the sections were extremely engaging!  Nicole was a fabulous TF and I truly learned a ton through discussions!
Don't take this course if you are looking to learn anything about the education system in the US. Take it only if looking for a grade buffer.
Course expectations are laid out very clearly from the start - it is impossible to do poorly in this course if you do everything that is asked of you. Also, Nicole is an excellent TF - try to get into her section if she is still helping to teach this class.
This is not a good class.  If you are interested in contemporary debates in American education, this is not the class for you.
the lectures were not good, but the section was great, as was the materail
The professor is boring, although she is knowledgeable of the subject matter and the class is interesting (especially if you are interested in education), the professor's lecture makes it hard to sit through an hour lecture.
Interesting material.
while the material is appealing - especially if you have an interest in education - the class is so poorly taught. without nicole (this year's tf), it would have been entirely unenlightening in addition to uninteresting.
Nicole Deterding is one of the best TFs I've had at Harvard, and made this class what it was.  Definitely take the course if you are interested in education and she (or another good TF) is TFing again! Lectures aren't great, but section is good and so are the readings.
Take this class! It is extremely interesting and an overall well-taught and reasonable class. The workload is sufficient for learning but not too much.
This is a very good glass, Professor Brinton is a good professor.
if you are interested in the educational system and its role in society. this is a great course to take
Lectures and professor are ineffective. Great topic but poorly taught.
The work for this class is very manageable and you learn a lot about how socioeconomic status is transmitted from one generation to the next (even through culture!).
Great  class if you are interested in education...loved the readings and you will too!
Very good sociological overview of education.  Deals a lot with inequality and personal opinion/experience.  Because everyone thinks they're an expert on education simply because they went through the system, student participation can be misleading, not representative, or downright wrong.
The professor is a nice woman but extremely dull and disorganized.  The only TF is amazing though and saves the class as much as she can.  If she's not TFing, don't bother.  The class is too redundant.  You learn the same thing like 7 times but if you're looking for an easy elective and don't mind if you don't learn much, this works.
Be ready for a very structural conversation. Professor Brinton really knows her stuff so get to know her on a one-on-one basis.  Also, do the readings, it's necessary.
The lectures mostly just summarize the readings, so you never actually need to read, except a few times during the semester when you have short response papers.
Unless you have a really strong interest in the US educational system, it is not worth suffering through the lectures.
If you are thinking about pursuing a career in education, this class will give a good introduction into educational systems. It focuses on the causes of achievement gaps and inequality.
The material is very interesting, but it is not presented in a very exciting way
some lectures can be boring
Professor Brinton knows a lot about education in East Asia but soon into the course, it becomes very obvious that she is not an expert in American education, despite that being the focus of the course.  Harvard, PLEASE give us more education classes than this, because it is PAINFUL to sit through these lectures sometimes.  This is just not a well-taught class, but if you need to know about education, its worth sitting through just for the access to all the readings.  You'll learn a lot but it'll be a long and dull process.  Make sure you have something else in your life that keeps you energized about public service because this course is not taught to inspire future educators.
You have to have an outside interest to take this course.  You have to be independently motivated to learn about education.  Lectures are dry - they're boring and the information presented is unsubstantial and repetitive.  The readings are interesting, but you only have to do a few for the 4 papers and for section.  Nicole, the TF, is the best TF you will have at Harvard.  She is great at leading discussions and adding her own, very intelligent input.  Overall, this class is not a lot of work, but Nicole is a bit of a hard grader.
the course material is easy and interesting, but the grading is unexpectedly harsh.
Great class if you want an overview on sociology of education, especially the comparison of US education system to that of the other post-industrialized countries.
It is not that difficult for a course. But be wary of the midterms.
The material is interesting, but you probably have to be self-motivated to do the reading/make sure you're getting the most out of the class.
The lectures are slightly boring.  The professor is extremely, extremely nice.
I do not think that this class was well thought out, hence it was not enjoyable to take as a student.
if you're interested in education and/or social justice, take this class!
I did not enjoy the course. It has actually discouraged me from taking other Sociology courses.
I would only recommend the course if they are interested in education, because the course does little to generate enthusiasm if you don't already have it.
Get in a study group to split up all the articles
It's painless and interesting.  Just be prepared to skim a lot of reading.
If you're interested in teaching, then this class might not be the best - I would take a gov class on education or a GSE course instead. This looks at education from a pretty strict sociology perspective, meaning that we talk a lot about capital but not a lot about what that means in the classroom.
good course to take if interested in subject matter
Interesting and stress free.
pretty general discussion of education.
The topic is really interesting and the readings are light and easy.  The discussion is not competitive and you can say whatever you want, except it can get frustrating that nothing productive seems to come from many lectures because of their lack of direction.
Very good class to learn about a variety of Sociological issues that are facing education today. You need to study for the tests. At first the lectures seemed boring but they improved as the semester went on the Professor knows her stuff.
