The class was one of my favorites at Harvard. Crucial to do the readings for maximum engagement in the class! A must take!!!!
Great topics and great discussion.
Take this course if you are interested in discussing issues that matter. Although it is oftentimes difficult to sit in a classroom and discuss things happening in the real world as if they aren't happening (in a removed and/or theoretical sense), I never felt as if that was the case in this class. Professor Winship always made it clear that the point of discussing and learning about these topics was to motivate us to go out and do something about to change things. That is why this course is such a great one.
This course was not about institutions. Instead, it turned into some sort of pop-philosophy and pop-psychology exercise. It was not intellectually rigorous. Professor Winship did not seem to put much effort into teaching. The course's grading standards were absurdly low.
This is a class that shakes the basic lecture shackles of most classes and makes
It's a lot of fun! It's best if you have strong opinions.
The class was surprisingly heavy on morality and light on the practical applications of it. I took it expecting to learn about how non profits, businesses, and other organizations justified some of the ethical decisions they made. Instead, it was much more focused on the moral basis of how humans make decisions.
Josh is committed to his students' learning and the class is very engaging.
A really good and richly detailed class. Very rewarding and excellent choice of readings. I left every meeting feeling like my fundamental assumptions about the world were questioned.
If it were taught by a different professor I would highly, highly recommend it. Professor Wakeham is fine one on one, but in class, he is sloppy, bro-y and just in general not very professional, especially when it comes to opinions that may challenge his own. And hence, instead of creating a comfortable atmosphere for discourse, the atmosphere is one that promotes shallow and not very scholarly discussion of superficialities, which is a shame given the great content and the really difficult questions this course could tackle.
The best part of the course were the course discussions. Discussing morality in various contexts provides students (especially upperclassmen) a great opportunity to discuss their diverse successes and failures as moral actors. The readings, however, are not nearly as thought-provoking as discussions and it is a chore to figure out how to incorporate boring or unoriginal authors into a strong paper.
Overall, an interesting class. The subject matter is engaging, interesting, and worth reading.Although the course is designed to be a seminar style, students teaching students environment, this design with this subject matter brings with it too many cons to outweigh the pros. The discussion based, and discussion graded format with slight professor interjection does not always work. The seminar/discussion based format: Benefits include having many viewpoints brought up, room to raise questions, and room to discuss complication. At the same time, discussions rarely extend beyond what each student is comfortable with, especially since discussion is graded. This means, by the 4th meeting, each student has a predictable response to the subject being discussed and the discussion rarely ever explores new territory. The material being discussed is interesting and difficult but the discussion based format leaves the class wallowing in similar discussions week after week. The classes when the professor does most of the directing are probably the most interesting classes, since the agenda is usually different and new. However, this really makes me question the discussion based and discussion graded format, because it doesn't seem helpful after the 4th week. The class title is Building Just Institutions, yet the class mostly focuses on Just, occasionally delves into the Institutions, and never gets to Building. The philosophical side seems to be the emphasis, and while this is fine and interesting, especially with a mix of sociological insight into how people and institutions function, the class might better be titled Evaluating Just Institutions. I think the class would definitely be improved by altering the style of the classes, adding an emphasis on how different pieces of the class should interact, and focusing a bit more on the Building.
The class does a good job going deep into questions of morality with the grounding of various readings covered in the class.
Be prepared for lots of reading, but also great discussions.
This class, though probably not taught by Professor Wakeham in the future, is still a valuable class, regardless of concentration
This is a really interesting class that forces you to think. If you're wondering whether to take it, I would just shop it very carefully and try and get a sense of if you'll fit in well with the style of teaching. The content is very strong, important and useful. It's just a matter of if you work well in the kind of seminar that it is. The work isn't too much although the reading is a decent load so if you're comfortable with classes that have a heavy reading load, you might also want to consider that.
Good class. Interesting readings on morality. Approaches what is sometimes a nebulous concept from multiple perspectives.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Anyone interested in the human condition, ethics, psychology, statistics, sociology, anthropology, history, philosophy, and other fields will love this course. The readings are thought-provoking and class discussions are relevant and carry on into "regular life".
This is by far the most engaging seminar I've taken at this university. The discussion was incredibly lively and about important issues, so I looked forward to attending every week. The subject matter was also really interesting, especially for anyone considering a career connected to public policy -- whether in the government, NGO, or private sectors. The course forces you to question how we actually think, and how we ought to think, about moral issues in various real-world institutional settings.
I will likely build no more just institutions having taken this course.
You'll engage with very thought-provoking work at the intersection of moral reasoning and social science. The discussions will undoubtedly be excellent. Josh Wakeham won't be teaching next year, but he really brought a lot to the course.
This was one of the greatest experiences I've had, in terms of learning experiences. Be prepared to do the readings and then spend a lot of time talking about it with the group- kind of like Community Conversations freshman fall but way way more intense. I wish this course fulfilled Ethical Reasoning- I certainly ended up with an appreciation of morality and humanity by the end. It's like sociology/psychology's counterpart to ER22 Justice by Sandel, and I think it should be regarded in the same vein, if not better. However, the current course head (Wakeham) is leaving as of this writing, and he himself was one of the big reasons why this course was so successful. That and the small discussion format.
This class was the best I took all semester. If you're the kind of student that enjoys doing readings and discussing them in a relaxed, informed setting, then this is the class for you. The professor, though I don't know if he'll be the same next year, is really great and interested in his students. Definitely, definitely take this class.
As someone who has not taken a lot of sociology courses, I can still confidently say that this course is one of the best in the department. It covers a series of theoretical issues in the field, applies discussions of justice to a series of really interesting and engaging case studies, and does so in a small seminar format. In my opinion, all Harvard students should be exposed to the issues and discussions that this class initiated and I would recommend taking this class to teach you to be a better student of social affairs and a better person. Being aware of how justice is and is not applied on-the-ground and being able to identify underlying assumptions of institutions are skills every thinking person should have, and this class teaches these skills in a really interesting way.
This course covered a broad range of theoretical ideas and applied them to current issues that call for moral contemplation and action. One of the most thoughtful classes I've taken at Harvard. If you put in the work and wade through the dense, stimulating material, it will be an incredibly rewarding experience.
Very interesting
Take this course! The course has a unique, fluid structure that's reactive to current event and, seemingly, emergent interests within the class. The diverse readings lead you to consider "what's right" for the world with respect to concerns for morality, legitimacy, fairness, etc. If you're interested in explore a variety of topics within this framework, then you'll appreciate the course.
If the course was thought out in a more coherent way, it could be incredible. The topics are all there, but I don't think the readings matched the bigger ideas in a way that made sense. It does provide some insight into the reasons individuals act in certain ways and how outside factors can change individual actions.
The class is great - don't go in expecting to gain competency in any specific skill or subject area, but you will leave a more critical thinker engaged in interesting social questions
