This is a great class that sheds a lot of light on how sports work in our society.
A great class for anyone interested in sports.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Prof Waters is so awesome, its sooooo interesting and it actually is one of your requirements for sociology. (it should stay only for soc tho!)
The material was extremely interesting and relevant to anyone with an interest in sports. I walked away from each week's class with a more comprehensive understanding of the way different students viewed issues related to sports on campus, largely due to their background and tendencies of their particular sport. While the final project was a lot of work, I walked away feeling like I was able to explore a topic I was truly passionate about and had applied the material discussed in class.
One of the most interesting class I have taken at harvard
If you like sports in any shape and manner, you will love this class!
A really fun class that makes you see sports in a completely different way.
I absolutely loved this class! Professor Waters is fantastic and this class taught me so much about sports in the context of health, gender, business and more! The fact that there were twice as many people on the first day than the number that could be in the class is a testament to how fascinating the subject matter is and what a great teacher Professor Waters is!
Great class to take if you have a passion and appreciation for sports.
A great course! Make sure you are willing to participate, because 2 hours is a long time to remain in silence.  The readings can get a bit dense at times, but Professor Waters is really awesome about incorporating current events on sports--and from there the discussion develops so much that you discover new ways of understanding sports from your classmates that you had never considered before.
This class was fantastic! If you play sports or are interested in sports, this is the tutorial for you. The class is a really unique and fun opportunity to take a sociological view on some of the issues in the sports world.
This is by far the best class I have taken at Harvard. Sports are such an important part of many of our lives and this is one of the few classes that applies to this aspect of our lives.
Best class offered at harvard if you like sports at all. The readings and papers are very interesting and you will have so much fun and learn a lot from your fellow classmates in the discussions every week
It's a blast.
