You don't need to go to lecture, but it makes the long reading very interesting.
Soc 190 is a really great class. Learning about the structural and social determinants of health is really useful, especially for people considering joining the medical profession.
Anyone who's ever thought of becoming a doctor should absolutely take this course. Actually, everyone should just take this course, regardless of how much you've thought about the healthcare system. It'll undoubtedly change the way you see things.
There are precious few classes when I happily and eagerly do all the reading required. This was one of those amazing classes. Christakis is delightful and the teaching staff is serious about the material they teach as well. Take it!!!
It's material worth learning about if you're interested in medicine.
The topics are extremely interesting and the lectures are great. Both of these qualities outweigh by other complaints about the logistics and set-up of the course.
A pretty good class - Christakis is a great lecturer and he makes the material very interesting. You do need to put some time in to do readings though, and the final exam takes basically the entire reading period so make sure you have the time.
I'm not a sociology concentrator (I'm in the natural sciences), but this was still my favorite class of the semester, beating out both a concentration and a secondary field class.  Lectures and readings are great, and the class brings up some really interesting issues in ways I'd never considered before.Take the class, whether for GenEd or just as an elective, you'll definitely enjoy it.
If you've taken a lot of health policy classes, this will be less interesting.  Christakis is an engaging lecturer.
Nicholas is a very engaging lecturer, some of the readings are beyond fascinating, the TF's are great, and even the students who took this class made the class very interesting and worth taking. Those interested in public health should consider this class, just to gauge in another perspective
It's a great course.  Great material, great professor.
Go to lectures: Christakis is awesome, and the presence is just not the same when watching a lecture video. The materials are generally accessible, and the TFs work pretty well together. There is a pretty extensive outreach to online involvement in the course, with an ILT site and the rwpoll softward to keep students involved in lecture. Generally, it's worthwhile.
This is a great class, Christakis is a really good lecture and he's fun to listen to. I was really glad to have taken this as a pre-med, it definitely put some ideas about the health care system that I will hopefully carry with me throughout my career.
It was a great course. Prof. Christakis is incredible and always very excited to start lecture. Definitely a good course. A bit too much reading but overall its a good course.
The Professor is absolutely great and lecture is so interesting...and the readings are as well...up until spring break. Then it seems...you're reading a lot of different ways of saying the same thing.
BEST CLASS I'VE TAKEN AT HARVARD!!! Professor Christakis is an amazing lecturer and every lecture was phenomenal. The readings are do-able and interesting and the online questions are not busy work but very useful. The class is run so well, and I think that everyone should take this class.
This class will change the way you think about the world - take it if you are AT ALL interested in any of the following: medicine, sociology, public health, social networks, evolutionary biology, public policy. I highly recommend!
I really loved this course. Hopefully they change the final exam though - three 7-pagers is pretty tough, so make sure you have little else going on during reading period!
Sociology 190 is a great class if you're looking for a serious and interesting course with a relatively light workload.
Take it!!! Prepare to have your mind blown.
Workload is very manageable. Definitely an interesting class, and Dr. Christakis gives great lectures.
Great Core course, demands your attention and steady work.
Take it! It is great.
This is a truly exceptional class, one of the few you come across that can be said you should take before leaving Harvard. It is a fantastic introduction to the true problems facing American health care and a rare opportunity to interact with the exceptional Professor Christakis. I truly enjoyed this course. The workload was well balanced, the material fascinating, the lectures one of the best I've ever had. Never have I been so confident in what is wrong with America's health care and what can help it. I was engaged throughout the class, I can't imagine my Harvard career without it. I'm not just a better student because of this class, I am a better citizen. I feel prepared to actually make a difference in public service because of this class. This is the kind of class that makes Harvard's reputation what it is.
This course will challenge all of your perceptions of medicine and health in the US. Professor Christakis is incredibly engaging, and the weekly readings are very manageable. This course is low work-load, but the evaluations are not graded on the Harvard everyone-gets-an-A curve.
The class is a little large, but Prof Christakis still does a good job to keep it engaging. Stay on top of the readings, even though the questions will only require that you do some of the reading. Very interesting, inspiring.
this class is great! Christakis is a great lecturer and the rest of the staff is very helpful. Just do the readings and pay attention to the lectures/
ONE OF THE BEST CLASSES I HAVE TAKEN AT HARVARD! This is a definite class for pre-med students or ANYONE interested in how society and the environemnt affect your health. Professor Christakis is so engaging and will teach you so many things about health that you won't even believe it! I highly recommend...with SO MUCH enthusiasm!
This is an amazing course. Christakis is extremely available and I would definitely recommend going to his office hours if you have time.
Excellent lectures! Very interesting and relevant-- this is a course where you will learn things that you can bring up in all sorts of random conversations.
The class will truly change your thinking about the nature of health in the US, and why it is so difficult to implement effective changes in health care.
Professor Christakis is amazing. The class will challenge the way you think about medicine and make you more aware of your own health. Lectures are the best I've seen at Harvard.
topic can be dry at times. a lot of reading. doesn't stimulate you intellectually. Professor is biased.
This class is an engaging and fun way to get your US in the World out of the way. Christakis is a fun lecturer and you will never be bored. It's not that much work and the course is extremely applicable to today's society.
You will enjoy section, lectures, and the interesting health topics that will be covered in this course. Take it!
Christakis is a wonderful lecturer and this class is incredibly interesting. It is not a lot of work, and I got a lot out of it.
if you're not a sociology-type concentrator, a lot of stuff might seem pretty obvious, but there are some interesting topics covered and it's good to learn the basics of what healthcare is like
This course is very interesting and not very difficult. It comes with very little work except for a very long final exam. Be prepared to have to do a lot of work during reading period if you take the class.
If you're from a science background you may struggle getting any sense of  legitimacy for the course, but if you're humanities, you'll love it.
This is one of the most interesting and engaging courses I have taken at the college.  It is great
Pretty good class. The sections are helpful. The exams are hit or miss... I did not enjoy the final take-home exam - it was 3 separate papers so it was a little stressful with some hit or miss essay topics, but I guess it's better than an in-class exam!
Christakis is a great lecturer, but the course itself is not terribly cohesive.  You'll learn a lot of interesting facts, but there is not a whole lot to tie together all the readings you will do.  A textbook or study guide would have been useful.
If you're premed or interested in health, this is a great course to give you a more novel view of the factors affecting health - Christakis has a really interesting perspective as someone who believes in the social determinants of health and is a practicing physician. The readings are super interesting and he's one of the best lecturers I've ever seen. Very manageable work load and it fulfills US in the World - TAKE IT!!!
Definitely take this class if you are interested in everything affecting health outside of big medicine!! Professor Christakis makes the class amazing, so regardless of which class, also make sure to take a class with him. I just found everything very interesting and loved coming to class and doing the readings! The final exam was tough though, but rewarding when done.
I would tell students that this is a very well-taught, interesting class that informs you about the various social aspects of medicine that are not obvious, but are extremely important. This is especially informative for pre-med students.
An engaging course. But some of the material causes you to raise your eyebrows at times.
The lectures are great, Christakis is a great teacher, but the exams are going to be very difficult.
The course makes you think about medicine and health from a new perspective.  Very easy course with one of the best professors at Harvard.
It's an easy class with fun readings and lectures on video.
Fascinating and low workload. What's not to like?
Professor Christakis is extremely knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the course. He really cares about student learning, and is extremely approachable in office hours and outside of class.
Christakis is a great lecturer and his work on networks is fascinating! The class is pretty low key but make sure you do enough of the readings ahead of time to complete the take home final without too much stress.
Really engaging and interesting, not very challenging. Christakis' lectures are some of the best at Harvard--he'll make you want to switch to sociology.
This class is really interesting and very relevant to a lot of current healthcare debates. The readings are really interesting, and the class changed my opinion of medicine in America. The work load was appropriate, and my section was great (Sae Takada). Christakis is very enthusiastic about this subject and he is very devoted to teaching this class.
This is a readings-based course so be prepared to answer reading questions every week. They are not hard but you have to do them the night before every lecture. The midterm and final are completely based on the readings, so you really have to know them.
Great lectures. Take home final is substantial but always nice to not have to sit through one more 3 hour final.
The material is so applicable to everyone. The lectures and readings were awesome and brought up issues related to health and health care that I loved learning about.
This class was very easy this year but expect Christakis to revamp the syllabus to increase the workload a bit.  He was trying to encourage everyone to do all the reading (which I think he did very well - you will love the reading) but it ended up being a bit too easy of a course given the current structure...I imagine he'll add a heavier writing component (there was none except the take home final which was surprisingly long).  Workload aside, this class is worth it even if he doubles the workload.  It was GREAT.  He's a fantastic lecturer, the material is super compelling, and it will make you think hard about the value of medicine in our society.  One of the best at Harvard.
Professor Christakis is the best. Coming to lecture is like watching tv, so entertaining!
Take this course!  The lectures and readings are interesting and enjoyable!
Very interesting Lecture.  Not a whole lot of work.  Great class, one of the best I've taken at Harvard.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. Hands down.
I really liked this course and found it very interesting--watch out for the long take home final exam though!
The questions seem like a lot of work weekly, and you have to do them weekly, but they are totally manageable.
Professor Christakis is great, the subject material is very interesting, and the course is almost no work throughout the semester!  Watch out for the take-home final though...it's super long.
An absolutely fantastic and life-changing course! Professor Christakis is an amazing lecturer and the passion he and his staff display is infectious.
Very interesting subject material, especially all considering medical school.
Take this course! You won't regret it. Lectures were always exciting and entertaining and this course helped me to think critically about a lot of important questions such as will there be an end to medicine? and how do social networks affect one's likely hood of becoming ill? If you are at all interested in global health, healthcare, social networks, communities, any/all of the above, you will be glad that you enrolled in this course. This is a great way to fulfill a US in the World Gen Ed.
Great class to learn about a broad range of issues related to both the medical field and individual life as well. Everything is socially constructed! Makes you think about how you actually perceive the world.
You will always look forward to going to class! But take the tests seriously because they are really the primary determinants of your grade.
This course was exciting, fun, and Christakis was a great professor.  This is one of those must-take classes at Harvard!  A straight forward Gen-Ed with interesting readings!
Amazing course, one of the few at Harvard you can actually apply to real-life dilemmas of the 21st century. I thought this was a great sociology class in general.
This was my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. It was well taught, EXTREMELY interesting, and made me look at the whole world with a different perspective. It really was life-changing, and it wasn't a big time commitment. However, you get out of the class as much as you put in, so I definitely recommend doing the readings before the lectures and ask any questions on what you're confused on.
21 page take home exam during reading period when there are other papers and take home exams. 'Nough said. And don't expect the Head TF be any kind of help on the take-home final. You're told you can only ask her questions but all she'll do is repeat the question already written on the exam (the one you don't understand and are asking about) and when you repeat that the questions is written unclearly, she just acts as if you're the one with issues and tells you you're out of luck.
This course is really interesting, not too much work aside from reading on a weekly basis, and elicits a lot of interesting discussions. The course was extremely well-taught as well, and had a really accessible teaching staff. The take-home final was very long and tedious, but other than that the course was great!
Christakis is a fantastic lecturer! Go to his office hours--he is great to talk to.  There wasn't too much reading, and the work load was relatively low .  It's my favorite class so far!
This is a traditional course that is meant to teach you something and doesn't really encourage innovative thinking.
A lot is covered in only a semester - it's great.
This was a great class; Christakis gives very interesting lectures, the readings are usually pretty good and there's not much work.
Super interesting and relevant!
The professor is great, but the format (exams, no papers) was not great.
Please, please, please take this class.  It is amazing, and Christakis is awesome.
Awesome class, Professor is amazing but the final exam was really long and so much work!
this class is thought-provoking, interesting, and enjoyable to be a part of.  It will challenge your preconceptions about medicine, health care, and many other topics relating to socioeconomic status and other social issues. The readings are interesting and are a range of difficulty levels.  The course is well-organized, which I appreciated in a core class.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.
This is a great course and it covers a lot of interesting material. Lectures are great!
One of the best courses I've taken.  One of the most interesting, too.
I would fully recommend this class to any student with an interest in medicine or health care issues.  The subject material was very interesting and the lectures were enjoyable to attend because Professor Christakis is so engaged in important public health issues and really enjoys teaching the class.
Great class, really interesting material, and a very enthusiastic and passionate professor.
Must be interested in medicine beyond public policy.
I loved this class for its reading.  Lecture was fun enough, and Professor Christakis is very much engaged in the material.  I think that this class is great because of the real world implications, but perhaps would have benefited from discussing things like the proposed health care plans of the presidential candidates.
A fabulous course with great lectures and sections TFs!
This class was amazing.
Take it for the professor. The material is really great too--something everyone should learn and know.
This class is one of the best ones I have taken at Harvard.
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. It challenged me to think, and was incredibly interesting and I was able to retain much of the information without too much trouble.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Even if you're not interested in the subject matter, the professor is super interesting and really awesome. and also introduces some really cool information. for example: www.humanupgrades.com
It is unbelievable.  Even if you are not interested in the material, go to the first lecture.  You'll change your mind.  I did.
There is not really that much core material that must be learned in this class. Go ahead, take it as an easy elective.
I would tell future students that the class does not require a lot of work but that only to take it if you're interested in medicine or public health.
Prof Christakis was probably the best professor I've ever had.
interesting, engaging, great lectures
It's very fun, and the workload isn't bad.  Still, you learn a lot.  Good for people not in sociology, like myself.
It's amazing!
As a pre-med student, this class made me think about a lot of the issues I would have to be dealing with as a doctor such as the death of patients, inequalities in care based on race and income level, etc.  I think that anyone thinking about being a doctor should have to take a class like this because just taking the science requirements is not enough.  As a student and citizen this class made me think about the health care problems facing our nation and some of the ways that we may need to address them.  Overall a very thought-provoking class.
The course covers interesting subject matter and Professor Christakis is a dynamic, affable, and engaging lecturer.
I absolutely loved the course!  But the final exam was a huge pain, took tons of time, and I felt didn't really assess my understanding of the material well.  If they change the final, I would recommend it with enthusiasm.
Take this class!  Professor Christakis is a great lecturer, the readings are so interesting, and you will learn a lot.
Do the reading; it is actually enjoyable
A painless and fun course, but be sure to get a good section leader!
this was my number one most favorite class at harvard
this is the best class i have taken at harvard. Christakis is a god!
This course is very interesting, but involves a good deal of reading and writing. The final exam is particularly demanding, during the first week of reading period.
if you are interested in the subject then it is a great course.
Awesome. And very interesting.
Great class, one of the best I've taken at Harvard. If you're a premed student, this class will change the way you think about the practice of medicine in this country.
Prof. Christakis is great, the subject matter is fun, and it's not too much work.
Good class; great professor; interesting material.
This was without question one of my favorite classes during my 4 years at Harvard.
Take it!! No matter your interests, you will find this course interesting.
May be the most interesting class you'll take at Harvard. Professor Christakis is amazing.
This class is great and should be taken if you wish to have more insight into medicine and health care and would like to make informed opinions about medicine and the health care system in the US.
This class teaches a variety of lessons that are applicable not only in the medical world, but to life in general.
Fantastic course!  Will change your perspective on medicine and health in America.
moving; a really important subject to educate yourself on
one of the best i've taken at harvard
Enjoy it! The professor is great and the material is interesting.
professor is amazing.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. The material is interesting, Professor Christakis is amazing, it's not too time consuming. I actually cried in the Eliot dining hall while I was watching the lecture videos for the first few lectures (I added late). I also laughed a fair amount. Amazing. Take it, without hesitation.
This course presents very interesting material which cannot really be found in other Harvard courses. The lectures are excellent, as is the lecturer. Sections were not great and the readings were often boring, but these failures were made up for by the quality of the rest of the course.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard so far.  Christakis is a genius and an incredible lecturer.  You will even want to do all of the readings.
This course was probably my favorite course I've ever taken at Harvard (and I'm a Junior).  Prof. Christakis was quite possibly the best professor I've had here as well.  It's a must-take class for anyone, but especially for pre-meds.  It gives you a whole new take on medicine and health problems.
Professor Christakis was awesome - really genuinely cares about the topic, and his students.
enlightening, interesting, and informative
This class is amazing. Professor Christakis gets to know almost all of the students' names. He is engaging and provides a novel way of approaching the healthcare crisis in America. You will leave this class with a deep understanding of the most complex healthcare issues all framed in a sociological context.
I would say only to do this class if you're not scared of sticking out a bit. Most people are going to ignore the serious implications of the class and it may be up to you to try to "wake up" your classmates.
This is an amazing course if you have interest any interest in public health.
I would say that this is a unique course at Harvard in that it has such a broad applicability and is moreover really important.
Incredible class.  Everyone should take it.
Great class, you just have to do well on the midterm and the take-home final.
Make sure you are prepared to do all the workload. It is a LOT of writing!
Section requirements vary so attempt to find the most compatible section leader with your personality.
That the course is absolutely engaging, fantastic, and incredibly relevant and crucial in living in today's world. Everyone dies, and everyone gets sick, so knowing how American society deals with and fails to deal with these social issues is very important.
great professor who does a great job at involving the students in his lectures
very engaging, great material, good professor
Prof. Christakis is a good professor to take, but only if you don't mind just sitting back and following his scripted narrations. Note taking is impossible with the way he lectures, but thankfully, this class doesn't depend on lecture at all.
Having a STRONG interest in medicine/health policy is necessary for this class. In the beginning, lectures are general and interesting to all, but they quickly become intensely tied to medicine and NOT sociology.
Best professor I've had at Harvard. Brilliant man to get to know
Christakis is a phenomenal lecturer. If you don't have room in your schedule to take it, you should at least try to audit the course. You'll learn so much from the professor, and the course material is extremely interesting and relevant.
Christakis is great. You will learn so much that you never knew before about the world.
One of the top three courses I have taken at Harvard.  Incredibly dynamic professor, socially important material.  Life changing.  Emerged as a better student, citizen, and individual.
It's not necessary to do all of the reading -that's probably impossible- but you should nonetheless do most of it. Enjoy lecture. Christakis is extremely passionate about what he teaches and it shows.
Lots of reading
Interesting material but the exams didn't properly assess the material of the class.
The course was just okay. I didn't learn a ton, lectures were okay, sections were okay. I don't think I will remember much from this course; it was simply average.
Although the class is not too easy, it is enjoyable and rewarding for anyone who ever wondered about the big scheme of things in medicine and health.
christakis can be a bit much, but it's a great class
It's a challenging class but it addresses relevant and really interesting questions
This class is very enjoyable and covers lots of interesting topics, offering new perspectives on how we view modern medicine and health in the US. Christakis is great. The readings are alright but for the most part its not necessary to read all of them. The only challenging aspect is getting through the take-home final.
There was a fair amount of work, between the readings and the response papers (which ended up being like formal papers because my TF was intense).  Christakis is fascinating and caring, but he won't give you his lecture slides, which is frustrating since he talks so fast.  I would only recommend this class to people who are interested in the subject matter, otherwise the work will seem onerous.  That said, the class was really interesting and I think I learned important information.
This is an extremely interesting class, with concepts that can blow your mind, or just scare you. The work in the class, and the final, will also scare you.
if you are at all interested in medicine or health policy take it. even if you aren't i would still recommend it.
This course is great for anyone who is even the slightest interested in any field related to health. It covers a lot of very interesting material that is applicable to so many professions.
I would hesitate to recommend it to other hard science concentrators.  Research in sociology seems fluffy compared to following the scientific methods.  It seems more like searching for examples to support a predetermined trend.  Also, the course could be strengthened by adding policy proposals or presenting policy changes in the past that have affected the way social factors affect human health.  Christakis presents a problem without allowing room for discussion about how to address it.
Very fun, informative, insightful class. The professor is amazing, one of the best at Harvard.
Excellent class..best professor at Harvard.
This is a great class if you are interested in public health. Even if you aren't, take it and you will find that you are.
This class is very interesting and the professor is outstanding.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  Then again I am not sure how great it is going to be without Christakis lecturing.  He is a god in this class.
GREAT CLASS!!!!!!!!!!
its a great way to learn about social health situations in different cultures and environments. the course work is easy and lectures are fascinating
Take this class! Awesome.
People say this class is easy and interesting - it's easy in that you don't have to do the readings but can still get the gist of them, but it's not that interesting. It gets very redundant after a while, and you can feel as if every lecture is a repetition of all of the others. The topics of causality and confounding variables come up almost every lecture.
my favorite class at harvard
This is an interesting and relatively easy class with an excellent professor and great course material!
If you are interested in health care, this is a very interesting perspective and take on modern health care system.
The class if far better if you put the necessary work into it, such as doing all of the readings and taking time on the response papers.
Great class, pretty easy, not too much work, VERY interesting.
Linda Ellison is the best TF you will ever have.
Learn from Professor Christakis - he has much wisdom and knowledge to share
Interesting subject matter but it's a lot more work than you expect-- they don't post the lecture slides online and there is NOT the general feeling that the teaching staff is interested in your success.
A LOT of reading. A LOT!!!
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard so far.
Be aware of all the writing you will have to do. It looks simple but it adds up.
Subject matter got a little boring at times because it was so common sense. So much reading.
Great professor, great class. Section might suck.
That the class itself is great but sections need improvement. Also prepare to do reading.
It's a great introduction to public health and the sociological side of it.
Prof Christakis is incredible and this class is fascinating and enlightening!
AMAZING.  lectures are great, professor is marvelous, readings are a lot but good.
The class covers important and interesting material, but don't take it if you have just a passive interest in it because the work load is way too high.
This class offers a great introduction to issues of public health, medicine, socioeconomics, etc. The lectures are very engaging and the material covers a broad set of topics. I would recommend this course for all premed students and also for any of those who care a little bit about their health. It also seems that this course may be more enjoyable if it were taken Pass/Fail.
Blew my mind. Christakis is great. Section varies widely by TF.
If you're unsure about concentrating in sociology, take this course!
y
This course is a great fulfillment of the Social Analysis core for pre-med students. It provides a lot of great information about the other side of medicine.
very useful and interesting to learn
Great elective.  I would recommend taking it pass/fail if you're not taking it for a department/core requirement--the tests can be pretty intense, but it's a great class to just learn.
Go to office hours, both with Professor Christakis and with your TF.  It will be fun and interesting, regardless of whether or not you actually need help.
This class is worth it just for Professor Christakis.  Everything else is a drag, but you put up with it just to get to the lectures and office hours.
This is a good elective course. It has a very low workload and the lectures are worth it.
Get to know Professor Christakis!!!
This class will definitely change you mind about medicine and health care distribution in the U.S. Whether you are a premed, a sociology student, a history student or anything else in between, health care and life/death is such a far reaching topic that everyone has a stake to at least education themselves.
Take this class. Its incredible to take a course that is actually useful in the outside world.
one of the best classes i've taken at harvard
This is a really interesting class with relatively few requirements, but beware--the take home midterm and final were actually quite difficult.
Beware of the reading list and work load, Christakis rocks!
Professor Christakis is great, but the sections are to be avoided!
best class ever
Love Christakis, but get ready to get owned in your writing assignments.
One of my favorite classes. Extremely interesting and applicable
Good course to take if you're a pre-med student looking for a slightly different perspective on the health care system - really makes you think about your interest in medicine and your views towards health and patient care.
This course is fun and interesting and useful and satisfies a core requirement.  You can't lose.
This class is very broad and covers a lot of material. Topics change frequently, so it is important to remember the overarching themes of the class.
This is one of the best classes at Harvard. It was definitely my favorite class I have taken. I learned so much, in so many subject areas, and everything is completely applicable to my life. It will open your eyes to a new way of seeing the world of health, medicine, and society.
get in a reading study group!! if you don't have one, make one.
If you haven't taken a sociology/health care course and you're interested in health care, definitely take this one!  It's wonderful to have take a class with such a accessible and caring professor.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, with the BEST professor - amazing lecturer.  Even if you don't find public health interesting, the professor is so enthusiastic that you will find the topics fascinating.  Grows on you quickly
If you're looking for a statistics-heavy public health course, this is for you. If you're looking for a standard sociology course, proceed with caution.
Great material but be prepared to be overwhelmed by the grading.
A relatively easy way to fill an elective slot and learn a little bit, too. Be sure to pace yourself on the take-home final and ask lots of questions about that and the midterm.
Pretty simple senior spring social analysis core...!
There is a lot of reading at times.
I would recommend this course to students with no background in health disparities
Good general knowledge and enthusiasm, but could use more depth.
This class is extremely easy to enjoy, and the sections are interesting as well .
There was a lot of hype about this class but I thought it was ultimately a let down. Some of the ideas were really interesting, but I didn't really enjoy writing any of the assignments or sections much.
Christakis is great
It's a tough course, and as welcoming and kind at the course head and TF's are, their expectations are high and difficult to meet.
This class really helped me put in perspective public policy measures in the context of health care and medicalization. We learned about end-of-life care, medical error, as well as a variety of socioeconomic factors that influence individual health. The impact of social networks and social support on health was also emphasized.
This is a really great class and not too difficult
Seniors writing theses, beware the midterm which you cannot skip.
It is a great course that is taught very well.
Get into a study group, be open-minded to get the most out of the course.
A good class to sit in on for the lectures, but do not buy the books, and also, do not take this class if you already have a heavy courseload. it will make your life miserable trying to write the many time-consuming essays.
this class has a pretty large weekly workload, but if you're not in senior spring I would definitely recommend it. it is interesting and the teacher staff is dedicated to the class
this is a great class to take to fulfill your social analysis requirement.  lectures are funny and the topic is interesting, and everything you need is located online.
n/a
very well taught
Interesting and painless if you do your readings
Lectures are on interesting topics for someone interested in medicine and health.  Gives an interesting critique of the field of medicine.
This is a fun class that is more effectively taught than many other healthy policy classes.  The focus on the US is different and interesting. As well, the teaching staff takes very good care of students, making a lot of resources available to anyone looking for extra support.
great subject matter to learn about and it really makes you reflect on your life. useful for outside harvard.
I'm not sure why this class seems to be hyped up all the time, it certainly did not live up to it's reputation and was probably one of the worst courses I've ever taken at Harvard thanks to bad assignments, bad TFs, and poor sections.
Many of the topics are similar to one another, and thus it can be a little tedious. Also, this focuses on much broader ideas that always leave you with more questions which is, I think, a good thing. This class also focuses on broad sections of problems and not necessarily initiatives that are being taken, which is what I originally thought it was about.
The topics were great but their presentation was somewhat biased and I wish the discussion was more focused. I still don't really know what I was supposed to get out of the class.
If you have any interest at all in this subject, you have to take this class.
