This course is relevant for anyone living right now. You will learn about the current refugee crisis and about refugee crises throughout history. The historical component is incredibly important and not something you will get from reading the news. Mandic is also a great lecturer.
GREAT class
This is a great academic introduction to refugee studies, and covers a wide range of topics related to the subject. The class offers the flexibility look look more in depth at particular refugee related issues that you are interested in through assignments, and has fascinating readings that you'll be excited to do. Overall, an amazing course even if you don't study sociology!
this class had such potential. really relevant course material, definitely helps you understand more about refugee policy and the many issues that refugees face. but the teaching staff really needs to reevaluate how to structure and organize the course. I was really frustrated with the expectations of students in assignments with not a lot of guidance.  With the policy memo, I really didn't know what to do or where to even start and the teaching staff didn't really do much to help students tackle it.  It was also really frustrating that we NEVER talk about the good in refugee policy and the good things that countries are doing. It's just so very negative and it's really disheartening. Professor Mandic also doesn't discuss any potential solutions to the problems, just rants about how bad refugee policy is and all the things that people are doing wrong.
You get what you give to this course. You can learn incredible amounts of knowledge from this course if you put in the effort. Trust me, it's worth it.
Fascinating content and a passionate professor.
This class is very relevant and has really great readings! If you want to engage with the discussions, you should also be reading. Assignments are fairly easy, but harshly graded depending on TF. One memo assignment during midterm season and a final (10 pgs) paper. Again, a lot is expected of you, but it seems like grading is often up in the air. Professor Mandic is extremely thought-provoking, and some people leave with questions or qualms.
This is a well thought out course and gives a wide understanding of refugee issues from around the world.
There are a lot of readings (but they are interesting) but the two main assignments can feel extensive
This class was a really great overview to different aspects of law and life regarding refugees. I took it because I felt like it is a very relevant topic that I didn't know much about and I'm leaving feeling confident that I could engage in a productive conversation about some of the many issues regarding refugee policy today. The weekly reading responses, although annoying, definitely held me accountable to actually doing the readings, which I ended up being thankful for because many were really informative and interesting. I also took the class Pass/Fail so I was able to truly enjoy learning about the content without stressing too much about the grade I received.
take this class just to listen to Mandic - so engaging!
engaging lecturer; you get out what you put in: if you don't want to do most of the readings, you might be able to get by with just doing enough to do the responses and essays. but if you want to actually get something out of it and learn something, do the readings. most are interesting
This class was really interesting. Professor Mandic is a really interesting lecturer, and obviously knows a lot about the topic. It wasn't too time consuming, but still really interesting. My only complaint is that the sections were way too big, so it was impossible to get anything out of them. By the time everyone made one comment, section would be almost over.
The material for this class is great! Mandic is also a great lecturer. Watch out for the assignments, they can be a little brutal!
The lectures are great and the readings are very interesting, and the class feels relevant and important to take given the current refugee crisis. Grading is pretty rigorous for this course, but the assignments were interesting and I felt like I learned a lot.
Take this course!!! I wish it was a required course for Harvard students. So much important learning and growth happened in this course and study of this topic is so necessary going forward.
This class was a lot of fun.  You'll learn about some really interesting situations, both current & historical.  Quite low stress for the most part but the policy memo and final paper were both quite difficult.  Lectures are entertaining and engaging. Honestly it's a really good class and I enjoyed it thoroughly and learned a lot, but you need to be open-minded.
This is an absolutely fantastic class taught by absolutely fantastic faculty. As always, Professor Mandic's syllabus is compiled and taught with thought, heart, and creativity, and allows you to immerse in the subtleties and complexities of the issue on a truly global scale.
I thought this class would be really awesome and relevant to current events; it was very thorough about refugee scholarship, sometimes to an overbearing extent. We did not really talk about current events. There was a little about Europe and guest speakers from Syria and Ukraine. I wouldn't take it again, but others more interested in sociology and refugee history might get more out of it.
Prof. Mandic is very passionate about the subject, but at times this means he presents things in a one-sided and subjective matter. I found him to not be a very trustworthy professor in terms of having an objective academic lens-- it was obvious that this subject is a personal passion, but at times I felt as though that made him a weaker teacher.
This class did not have a good teaching quality and it also did not make you think at all.
This class was awesome. Mandic is a fiery orator, and becomes impassioned very quickly while laying out the world's problems in front of the class. He's also very accessible, and very interested in what students are interested in working on. The class was a great overview of global refugee issues, human rights law, and international relations relating to refugees. Section was usually a pretty good discussion and often got pretty philosophical.
If you want to get a basic overview of all of the issues facing refugees, this is the class. If you want an unbiased overview, this is not the class. I would take it keeping in mind that perhaps there is another side to the argument, though I am not sure what it is
pretty chill class, 1 weekly assignment response, but you do have a lot of readings to do. it is easy to just not do them but try to keep up with them as they are very interesting and will help you a lot in section.
I choose this class because of the breadth of the reading material and the passion Professor Mandi showed for the topic. Both of these aspects really lived up to my expectations. The readings were always super interesting and each week covered fairly different topics. Professor Mandic's lectures were always really engaging and informative (and very funny too). I'm so happy I took this class and had the chance to learn more about such a pressing subject.
This should be a required course for all students considering working in government, policy, media and NGOs in the future. You will have myths you did not even know you needed busting thoroughly busted, all by one of the most humorous, polemical and engaging lecturers at Harvard.
Mandi is very enthusiastic and knowledgeable about the course material and is very approachable as well. Very relevant subject matter and covers a global context that will make you really think about migration critically (how it is always happening constantly and so influential in everyone's lives).
material gets repetitive after a while
This class is a cool way to learn about refugees, a timely topic. It is a very academic look at refugees and there is a lot of reading, but overall not too much work.
This is a great class on refugees and migration and you learn a ton about a very contemporary issue. Professor Mandic is super passionate about the topic and lectures are always fun and entertaining. However, this course doesn't look much at the different policies that countries have enacted.
The course was highly engaging and interesting. I would recommend it to any student aiming to dig deeper into refugee concerns.
The only work throughout the semester are discussion boards about the readings. You can get by without attending lecture or doing the readings. But spend time on the policy memo (midterm paper) and final paper. They're graded very harshly and make a HUGE component of your grade!
This is a great class that covers a lot of material. You learn about refugee crises in all parts of the world, and along a great temporal dimension as well. I rarely find the opportunity to study and make connections between such different areas, but this class did just that.
This class gives you a good understanding of refugees and the problems they face. There is a fair amount of reading and the assignments are kind of tricky. You definitely leave with some clear takeaways about how to approach the issue of refugees.
While the course topic seems intriguing and appealing, the course is extremely unstructured and difficult to get actual knowledge from. Would recommend really just for entertainment value if you want to take it pass/fail and hear ridiculous comments made about the United States, "wealthy countries," and the incompetency of apparently every NGO and government in the world.
The subject matter is interesting. Professor Mandic is enthusiastic and knowledgable and seems to care about the students. The rest of the class, however, is pretty disjointed and arbitrary. Assignments are vague and unfairly graded, and there seems to be a huge disparity among TF expectations for assignments.
I am recommending this class entirely for Danilo Mandic. Just shop it, and you'll see what I'm talking about. He is so energized and knows everything about the topic. This topic is entirely his passion and it really shines through, which is rare in classes taught by Harvard professors. This is also a topic we all need to learn, especially in this current state, and this is basically the only class at Harvard on refugees! (Prof. Mandic is also just really good looking, so you'll always actually be paying attention to him. However, this is entirely the cherry on top off an amazing class. I would recommend it even if he wasn't as hot as he is.)The only assignments are posting on a discussion board weekly, a policy memo (3 pages) and a final paper (10 pages). The policy memo is really fun and solution based, so you feel as if you're actually contributing something of real-life importance with your studies. The final paper in it's current state was just silly and a dumb prompt, but not difficult; just start it early, 10 pages is a lot.Section was sort of lackluster, but hopefully by future iterations this will have changed. Section only focused on reading and didn't at all cover any material that was taught in lecture that was not in a reading, which is honestly a lot of material b/c Prof. Mandic is an expert, so that kind of sucked. Section was also graded on how often you spoke in section, which a) was super stressful, and b) led to some people saying things just for participation points, and not because they were actually contributing to the discussion or raising a new interesting point.Hopefully in future years they will change this + the final assignment, but even if they don't, the class is still worth taking for lecture alone. This is the only class I have taken in my 3 years at Harvard that made me feel uncomfortable, and I didn't know how valuable that was until I felt it in this class.
This is a good class to take if you're interested in learning more about the refugee crisis. The professor tends to ramble a bit, and has a clear liberal bias, but is thoughtful, insightful and and entertaining nonetheless.
Great lectures and a passionate professor make for an interesting class.
Such an incredible class to understand the world around you and to surpass what the media and politicians try to tell you
Wow, take this class if you can! Professor Mandic is passionate, funny, and knowledgeable and if you have any curiosity about the history of international law related to refugees, government responses to refugees and other immigrants, aid work related to refugees, and the different major refugee waves of the past 100 years, take this class. I have learned more in this class than most I've taken in my three years here.
