I would recommend the course if you don't already have a firm grasp of OLS regression, diagnostics, and using Stata.
It is very relevant for students pursuing social science research.
If you come to class prepared to pay attention, do the readings, and complete the assignments, you will definitely learn a lot about statistics.
This is a great class to learn Stats! Peter is a fantastic teacher who really wants his students to learn the material.
take this as a preparatory class for social science quant methods (gary king or chris winship)
this is the best professor you would ever have for methods!
It is a great intermediate statistics course, emphasis on the intermediate nature of it all.  Peter doesn't just teach you the formula and tell you to plug numbers in but rather teaches the theory the formulas builds upon which hels sift through some of the mountain of information before you.
I was pretty sure that I would fail this course. If you asked me before matriculation what course I most dreaded, it was statistics. However, I managed to learn a lot from this course and excelled well beyond my own expectations. I credit this to the skill and clarity of Professor Marsden's teaching.
This course is very time-consuming and requires a lot of independent work.
Even if nothing is due for the week, make sure you sit down and study or review the course materials. Review your lecture and section notes. It really will help you spread out the work load for the semester if you do a bit each week.
Plan your time wisely because the second half of the semester is intense.
It is a strong introductory statistics class, but sometimes it feels a little punitive. Can be hard to feel that comfortable with the concepts as it's happening, but I feel much better in retrospect. Also important to keep in mind that you'll never really have to do this stuff under pressure, which made me feel better.
good course to learn the basics. the assignments and exams are fair and helpful. lecture can be confusing.
This is a very helpful course but you need more than ten hours a week soley for this course.
This course is a lot of work, and at times very difficult, but you will learn a lot, and it is graded very fairly. Overall, a good way to learn regression analysis, as long as you can keep up with the workload. Also, find someone who knows the material who can answer your questions, as the problem sets are very challenging!
I for some reason thought it would be smart to take this class as a concentration elective. I learned a lot, but the class was pretty boring, and there are a lot of better alternatives for sociology courses.
Peter is a terrific teacher.  Seize any opportunity to take a class with him.
Professor Marsden is very conscientious and seems committed to making the course as beneficial as possible to each of his students.
It's one of the best organized and taught stats classes at Harvard; though, it is hard to follow if you don't have a strong foundation in statistics.
Extremely valuable basic course in grad level statistics that will serve you well by providing you with a solid foundation in social science quant methods.
Even though I had taken three statistics or statistical methods classes before, Soc 202 really solidified many basic concepts of statistical methods and made me much more confident about learning more advanced methods. I now have a better understanding of how to decide to use particular statistical models, what problems to look out for when using them, and how to fix these problems.
Very good basic introduction to statistical methods and STATA use. Aimed for informed consumption.
Peter is efficient and humorous. Work hard.
This class is great and builds a solid foundation for quantitative methods for sociology. Peter is also a really excellent teacher and extremely helpful.
very valuable foundational class. very clear, high-quality instruction. extremely useful for, and directly applicable to, interpreting and producing research.
You'll learn a lot if you're new to quantitative methods, but sometimes it will feel like pulling teeth.
You should hope that Ekedi is your TF!!!!
This class provides a basic overview of applied regressions. I recommend taking a class to review basic statistics before this one.The lectures are laid back and workload is moderate. You will have a solid understanding of regressions after this course.
This class is very great for an introduction to the material - it covers the basics really well, and the professor makes you feel encouraged and interested in it. If you are already somewhat familiar with quantitative methods, then you might find the pace slow.
Time management was a problem in this course- we did not get through the syllabus, yet we were still tested on everything in the syllabus. Also the last few assignments were not handed back in time for us to learn and internalize the feedback. This made it difficult to adequately prepare for the final exam.
Great instructor for foundational concepts.
It is a good foundational course, even if you have experience in statistics.
Great course for the aspiring heavy or moderate quant methods researcher.  Especially useful for sociology students hoping to publish in top-tier sociology journals.
Jason and Hope did a terrific job. I felt like I came out of the class with a strong understanding of OLS regression and a good foundation for future coursework.
