This course applied what we learned about urban sociology to current events. It was also very engaging and more hands-on than I expected.
This is absolutely my favorite course I've taken at Harvard. Professor Rosen is great, the material is really interesting, the essays are actually enjoyable, and overall I really feel like a learned a lot about a really relevant topic. 100% recommend this class.
Very well-taught course. Material is engaging, and TF and professor are excited and knowledgeable about it. Provides broad overview of an introduction to sociology for those new to the department or concentration. Can also serve as a nice elective course if you need something interesting and not that hard to finish off your schedule. Easily my favorite class this semester and I'm really hoping to have another course with the same professor (Eva Rosen) in the future.
Loved the material, but I think the overall teaching could go a bit more beyond its current mediocre level.
You will likely learn a  ton about the sociology of an urban environment.
You will have to pull your weight and the grading is not super easy, but you will learn a lot about the inequality around America that is sometimes invisible to us. If you haven't taken a sociology course before, this is a good place to start.
Liked the class, TF (Jasmin) was especially good, liked Professor a lot, think she will be more comfortable teaching it after her first year.
If you're interested in sociology at all, don't be afraid to take this course! It's not that demanding (although the readings can get dry), and it covers a lot of fascinating topics.
Extremely fun and interesting course! An amazing introduction into the department and one of the bigger reasons why I decided to concentrate in Sociology. Professor is great, flexible, and engaging. The readings and assignments are relevant and fun. The sections are both informative and makes you think. Wonderful class.
If you've taken more than 2 or 3 Sociology courses in the past, chances are you've already learned about at least one of the weeks of the course. I guess this can be nice, but keep that in mind if you're looking to learn brand-new things.
The subject material of this class is fascinating for anyone, even if you don't plan on studying sociology. The readings weren't too difficult, and the professor and TF were positive and down to earth, making the class environment a lot more comfortable and open.
The class deals with race in American cities in such a way that you leave each lecture feeling compelled to action.
Pretty theory-based, but definitely an interesting class that relates to current events. I really enjoyed it and the workload was not too terrible.
Lots of fun, you will feel like a sociologist yourself by the end of it!
I would 100% recommend taking either this course or another taught by Professor Rosen. She was very good at explaining theories and presenting them clearly. I had never studied Sociology before and it proved to be a great introduction, making me feel that I have covered a wide range of topics. The workload is definitely manageable, though the size of the readings can vary from pretty small some weeks to quite lengthy, such as when we had to read an entire book. Overall though it was definitely one of my most enjoyable courses this semester.
This course is a true introductory course.  It covers a pretty broad range of sociological interest and doesn't get into the nitty-gritty of the theory.  The readings are interesting and really relevant, both to current events and the course.  The workload is totally manageable and fitting to an introductory level course
Keep up with the readings! It's not hard to do but it's easy to push them off, and they are usually pretty interesting and quickly read.
This class confirmed my decision to become a Sociology concentrator. I had hesitated because the only other Sociology class I took was a poorly organized one in the past semester and since this class was also a new class, I was very apprehensive. However, this class exceeded my expectations. I LEARNED so much, which is more than I can say for a lot of introductory classes. I liked the combination of theories and ethnographies and studies. Rosen is a great lecturer and very sweet and Jasmin is a great section leader and is very good at synthesizing thoughts and clarifying concepts.
See the sociology writing person's office hours. They grade kind of hard on papers. Write to strengths and limitations of theories and try not to discuss only one when you can discuss two. Try to do all the readings -- they're good. You will feel like you learned a lot from this class if you do the readings--also a good intro to sociology.
This is a great introduction to urban sociological theory. Even though it's in the intro sociology series, it really is specific to study of the city. That said, there are many very interesting topics related to inequality, race, and economics. The class is also very specific to the American city.
This class is very interesting and teaches about some of those issues that became so timely this year with everything that happened regarding Ferguson and non-indictments. Sometimes, however, the class kind of feels like it has no true point or final destination. We talk about theories and how they're related but we never seem to get a full analysis in there.
