Paul is awesome! He's a very chill professor who doesn't ask much from you in terms of reading or writing assignments, but he's also very willing to help you find research for your final paper. This class will challenge you to learn material you might have never known about before regarding East Asia and social movements, but you won't have to do it through a very painful way, which is the ultimate beauty of this course.
This is an informative, fascinating, and fun class. No background knowledge of sociology or East Asia is necessary, though some understanding of history definitely helps. Each week, you read about different social movements in East Asia, each on different topics and viewed through different lenses. Paul is an incredible instructor: he's so knowledgeable about the topic and his passion for it really shines through. He's also just a really cool guy who just wants to help his students and wants them to care about things.
Paul is a great professor, the discussion really depends on who the other students are, my experience was awesome thanks to everyone in the class. Great for sociology concentrators and non-sociology concentrators alike! Great intro to social movement theory or social movements in Asia, or if you just want to find out more about what the issues are in Asia today this is a great class to take for that. Highly recommend A++++ with enthusiasm Paul we love you <3!
great class
This was a good class for getting introduced to social movement theory and applying it to actual cases.The course load is very light, which has its pluses and minuses (minus being that arguably it was hard to have substantive discussions based on various points of view, when we would only read one paper per week).I still enjoyed the class very much and found it useful for my research this summer. And Paul is a great guy! He is super friendly, open, and easy to talk to--plus he just knows a lot about social movements, and is willing to help out with questions about research and methods.
Great class with good vibe.
Paul is great--very approachable and knowledgable about social movements and sociology in general. Some case studies are better than others, but discussion is usually interesting regardless. You spend 2-3 weeks on the history of Japan, Korea, and China, which is great! Good class for people with a medium interest in learning about Asia and social movements.
As a non-sociology major, I found a lot of the theories and concepts I learned in this course very illuminating and useful in framing my thoughts. I would definitely encourage arts and humanities students to try this course; the material is very approachable and interesting. Prof. Chang does a great job introducing novices to social movement theory.
Paul is a really great lecturer, and I really enjoyed how case study-focused this class was. It really helped me understand how the sociological theories could be applied in very interesting and useful ways. This was also a pretty good methods class for people who are planning to do senior theses in the social sciences.
Professor Chang is a great instructor who is very open to discussion and hearing your views.
Take this class!! Paul Chang is a professor that you must have during your time at Harvard. He is so invested in his students and their personal growth, and he truly cares about each student as individuals. Classroom discussions are lively, and the class material is great. Even if you haven't taken a sociology course beforehand, Paul does a thorough job at explaining how a sociology paper is written and offers a lot of support along the way.
I thought the class was interesting overall and generated some very fascinating conversations. I wasn't a fan of some of the case studies, but I think they were mostly ok. In terms of work load, this class is not too heavy, involving one reading per week, one presentation in the semester, 2 response papers, and one 15-25 page final paper on a case study of your choice. Professor Chang is very approachable and open to meeting with students, and has funny stories to tell.
Had an amazing time taking this class!!! Chang is a super great professor and you definitely would be missing out by not taking this during your time at Harvard!
This is a really great, interesting course! The class discussions are fantastic, and you learn a ton about social movement theory & East Asian politics, culture, and history. I had never studied East Asia before, but it was fascinating to learn about the social movement sectors there. Paul is a great professor - super personable and he adds a lot to class discussion. He's really good at getting people invested in the discussion. It's also a pretty light workload  all you have to do is two readings per week normally. Outside of that, there are 3 papers - two short critiques on separate readings and one big research paper.  It's a great course if you're interested in social movement theory and applications and have a stressful semester otherwise!
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. Paul is a phenomenal teacher, with incredible enthusiasm and knowledge to share about the issues we discuss in class. The research paper is a great chance to dive into something that interests you, and Paul is very supportive throughout the process. Your peers in this class will be a big part of the experience and help you think in new ways. I will miss our afternoons in Soc189!
Taking this course has been one of the best decisions I've made.  This course is completely accessible to people without any background in either sociology or East Asia, which is not something that can be said about all concentration electives.  Professor Chang brilliantly brings the material to life, and is open and receptive to students' ideas and past experiences with the subject matter.  I would really encourage anyone who finds the subject matter intriguing to consider taking this class. Also, do the readings; you get more out of class the more you put in!
I was a junior in this class and I can honestly say it's one of the best classes I've ever taken. Professor Chang is wonderful. He is so knowledgeable and so experienced and that comes through in each class. It felt like he really cared about each of his students. In terms of work, this class was really light. You essentially chose when you would write each essay (two of them). Professor Chang was very helpful in terms of the research paper. Only one, maximum two, readings before each class and to be honest you could get away with not doing them because each class someone presented on the reading and would provide a summary, and we would also read the essay they wrote where a summary of the reading was presented. I would still recommend doing them if you have time though because they're interesting and not dense!
