That this class is very well run and very interesting. The coursework is very minimal and lecture is optional. It is extremely easy.
It is very interesting.
Don't take it just because you think it's an easy class - while it may not be difficult, you must be interested in the material in order to make the most of it. There is not a lot of work required and that makes it easy to fall behind on readings.. which will come back to bite you when the midterm looms and when planning on writing the final paper.
take it, go to lectures, the professor is great and very interesting
very interesting and well organized. Not too difficult
Be sure to back up your work with evidence from the literature, even in response papers that are emotionally charged
This course provides you with a very realistic view of the justice system that is incredibly applicable to how society functions today, but is often overlooked in many students' college studies.  I'm an art history student and I found this course fascinating.
interesting but not painful
It is an entertaining and informative class with interesting guest speakers
It's great. Switch to a good TF though! My experience was tempered by a mediocre TF.
This class is really wonderful! The subject matter is very intereting and guest speakers are excellent.
Taking this class makes me feel like I don't go to Harvard. Until a nerd in the front row raises her hand and asks the teacher: "What is meant by ghostridin' the whip?"
This course is quite managable, and yet still very interesting. I was never bored in any lecture or section, and the readings were always very informative and easy to understand. While the reading amount was a little vast, I think it was intended to be read in bits and pieces.
Take this class!
Very interesting and easy.
This class has interesting topics that are fun to discuss and ponder.
Take this course if you are interested in talking about abstract ways to prevent crime.
Very easy class, yet interesting.
This course provides an extremely interesting look at crime in society, from motivations of gang members to philosophies of police. There is no reason not to take this class, as it provides relevant and fascinating information about our society from which everyone can benefit.
The class is incredibly interesting and one of the few classes at Harvard that doesn't bog down the facts with excessive assignments and reading but allows you to learn something about the world in which we live in.
That it is both interesting and easy.  Also lectures are optional.
It's fun!
It's a very low workload and really demystifies a lot of inaccurate beliefs about crime
Great way to learn more about crime in America today (with a strong emphasis on local crime). Prof. Braga is a great speaker and his experience in the field is evident.
the material is interesting and the course is easy.
this class is good for anyone who wants to gain a basic understanding of crime in the U.S.
This class is wonderful, it is a must take and Professor Braga is on point!!
it's easy, prof. braga is cool.
Sort of boring... everything we learn in class is very well researched, but in the end it seems like common sense... police should get to know their communities, the death penalty doesn't really work, boys join gangs because of broken families and the need for acceptance, etc.
Highly recommend! Professor is very enthusiastic and engaging
Interesting course, with manageable course load. Potential GPA Booster
The course was exciting. It was a real life "West Side Story," and helped bring the problem of crime in America to a Harvard world that really doesn't see it very often. Professor Braga is fantastic, and the course opened my mind.
take it!
A great class to take pass-fail as a senior elective.
It is very informative and interesting.  Many people don't do the readings or come to class, but both are seriously worth doing.
Professor Braga is awesome! I enjoyed the guest lectures and learned a lot about the real world.
Painless and fun.  A good elective for non-concentrators.
Easy and somewhat interesting.
Relevant to the real world.
Go to class.  It is the most interesting part of the course.
it's a great class to take
Take this class.
Very little work required.
It is a fairly easy class that still manages to be interesting and engaging at all times.
it is an interesting class that does not require an absurd amount of work to do well.
It is interesting and involves minimal work.
This is one Harvard course every undergraduate should take at some point or another
Braga is an excellent professor. He generates great enthusiasm for the subject.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Your awesome chance to learn in a mostly easy course about substantial things that will be applicable and you will remember for the rest of your life. Take it.
the course offers an interesting perspective to delve into sociology
Take this class. All the reading is relevant to the course work and if you are at all interested in crime, you'll enjoy the reading and the assignments, one of my favorite classes thus far at Harvard.
This class will give you a much deeper understanding of the criminal justice system, and will make you think about crime in a totally different way than ever before...
The professor was good and the class was interesting. The lectures were a little redundant by the end of the year but overall it was a great class.
The midterm is extremely straight forward, so just by studying your notes you can do really wellThe professor notices attendance
It is an interesting and relaxing course
This class was deceptively harder than expected. If you're not a good test taker, beware that a 50-minute midterm counts for 35% of your grade. Lectures were interesting, but sections were pointless.
It was a great introduction to sociology! It was relevant, interesting, challenging, yet not overwhelming.
An interesting, if somewhat hackneyed look at the criminal justice system.
very interesting, midterm exam was tricky, final paper is very tedious, but interesting
This class was pretty easy if you do some reading. Great how there's no final exam after the midterm.
Great introduction to American judicial system and exciting to hear Professor Braga's perspective from his hands-on experience.
You will learn interesting things about our criminal justice system. Braga is a champ!
The class topic is very interesting but the final paper is challenging if your not extremely interested in the topic.
Take this class very good way to start you sociology concentration requirements.
Great class, really good lectures, Professor Braga is very good.
Really fun, easy, enjoyable. You will learn something
This class falls squarely in the category of low-pain experiences which nevertheless make you feel as though you've come away with new understandings. Its exploration of topics isn't particularly intellectually rigorous, but that doesn't seem to be the point. Rather, it makes you view several intuitive phenomena as all being part of the same larger social problem. If that appeals to you, don't hesitate a minute to take this class.
A must-take class. A perfect way to learn about the judicial system and how different fields can be of help in fighting crime
Very fun class with minimal work. The professor is amazing.
It's a really awesome course taught by a guy who looks a whole lot like Steven Seagal. If it fits in your schedule go for it. The midterm isn't that bad either.
Great professor, interesting material, not that much work (until the final paper)
Interesting and has a relatively light workload, but grading is unpredictable and seemingly arbitrary.
awesome class-- a must take
If you think crime is interesting, take this class because it will become even more interesting to you.
Great class.
This is a very interesting course if you were every interested in understanding the criminal justice system in America beyond what you experience as as student and your, most likely, uncomfortable encounters with police. It has provided me with a better understanding of the processes that are involved in our criminal justice system, but also has made me more aware of the important issues that are surrounding this system and the role of race and socioeconomic circumstance in this system.
Cool class, cool professor, cool subject matter. Painless.
Braga is legendary.  Presents information very, very well.
This course is fairly interesting and fairly easy.  The focus on the Boston legal system, which is the model that seems to be the course's basic frame of reference, might be problematic.
Go to lecture
Extremely eye-opening class.
fairly easy
Pretty easy, though lectures aren't really necessary since lecture notes are online.
Well worth your time and effort
It is easy.
You will learn an incredible amount about the American justice system and the crime problems facing our nation.  You will leave the class as a more informed citizen and will feel proud as a result of the experience.
It is really interesting material and Professor Braga does a good job presenting it and organizing the course. It's not too strenuous, but it can take up some time.
There is a lot of reading. Be prepared.
This class is very interesting and each lecture is quite entertaining. Prof Braga is wonderful and provides a stimulating lecture, the only negative of the class is the amounts of reading.
It's not too hard.
It is a very interesting introduction to Crime. It is fairly straightforward, but Braga's lectures are interesting. His slides are great so you can miss a couple of lectures, but he is engaging enough that it is worth attending.
- Interesting class material and good lectures
I would tell them that this is a very interesting class especially if you go to lecture and do the readings.
It's great for sociology concentrators but it's great for everyone.  It's a decently easy course that you definitely don't have to do the reading for.  It's a lot of stuff you should just know.
The course is a fairly easy way to learn about interesting and relevant issues.
Easy.  Interesting subject.
This is definitely a worthwhile class to take. Professor Braga is extremely knowledgeable in what he is teaching and has great case study examples that make the class more relevant and more engaging. Guest speakers also really work to connect the course material to real life.
The lectures are boring. Painfully so. I slept through about half. They are the same verbatim as the power point notes.
suuuper sweet class.  great lectures, though the slides are so informative, you don't need to go to class to get pretty much everything.  guest lecturers super cool.braga's a badass.
Some solid material and a great professor and TFs.  A lot of lectures full of facts on crime, although not always exciting.
Even if you think you're not interested in crime or police, you should take this class because it really makes you think about the things you see on the news and how criminal justice system is shown versus the reality. Plus, the readings and the response papers are actually interesting and the type of things you share with people afterwards.
Take this class it is extremely informative.
Amazing
The course material is really interesting.  Although class meets only twice a week the teaching staff keeps track of attendance.
While this class covers more "Crime, Justice, and the Boston Legal System" than the "American" legal system, it was a fascinating course, delving into material I had never studied or really even considered before.  Prof. Braga is great; he's not just an academic who reads books, but instead, he's been an active part of all the initiatives we discuss.
This class is easy, but I learned a whole lot about the subject. Don't let that final paper sneak up on you, though.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. It is the only class that I think everyone would enjoy no matter what your background.
