Very helpful for generals, interesting subject material, and the least stressful classroom setting yet.
The Professor is very nice and willing to help you. The topic is very interesting and the Professor makes you feel confortable in class.
It's a good way to get a quick overview of the macro literature.
The professor is nice & extremely smart.    I stopped making comments after the first few weeks bc of a few people in the class who were argumentative and annoying.  Wasn't worth talking anymore.
This class is an outstanding doctoral seminar.  Each week we would read papers, send in questions about them that we would like to have discussed in class, and then take turns presenting a paper and critiquing it.  The ensuing discussions were wonderful - always meaningful and respectful, and we covered a lot of ground.  Prof Marquis knew just how and when to share the extent of his expertise, and he always gave us an opportunity to share what we knew (or thought we knew), without swooping in (like some HU professors do) to make the "big statement" or to "show us the error of our ways".  Prof Marquis is that true scholar:  humble and unassuming and entirely expert about his field.  I learned so much from him about the research mindset and method as well as the content and contrasts of all the various theories that we discussed.  Anyone who aspires to be an outstanding social scientist should take a class with Chris Marquis.
good preparation for generals!
Try to stay on top of the reading, consider discussing the readings with other students before class to gain an additional perspective on the literature
Sociology 224 gave me a good grounding in the basic theories relating to organizations in the for-profit/corporate setting. Using this foundation I can study topics I am interested in more in depth.
If interested in org theory, definitely take!
Sociologists and business people think differently.
This course is great -- very interesting and engaging. The workload is moderate, and the course culminates in a final paper that advances a research proposal related to macro topics.Chris is a fantastic professor and I highly recommend taking a class with him if you have the chance to do so.
I didn't care for the topic and I found the readings to be very difficult to understand, but I thought Chris was a great professor.
If you are looking to understand the foundations of organization theory, this is a wonderful class to take. It's also a great place to launch graduate research projects and situate the research in sociological methods and theory.
Organizational sociology is underrated. Take this course, especially if Frank is teaching it.
This is an excellent survey course of macro-organizational theory. It's a lot of reading, mostly theory, but very helpful in getting a lay of the land. The course format itself is not the most exciting but the reading list is broad and well curated.
Tha class provides a thorough introduction to both organizational theory and sociological research.
