This course has really interesting subject material. It's important to do all of the readings in this course, if you want to really engage in the class discussions, and also to do well on the midterm exams. The final paper was a bit confusing to navigate as well, as the prompt evolved and changed toward the end of the semester. Overall, a good course.
The material of this course is interesting but it was taught horribly and I would not recommend taking it if Prof. Brinton is teaching it again. She is not a good or engaging lecturer and just wanted us to regurgitate what the readings said, yet she did not make clear exactly which points from the readings were most important or if we interpreted them incorrectly in class. She spent way too much time talking about tangential or wholly irrelevant things in class for far too much time, like how she runs faculty meetings or what she would say in a presentation at the Kennedy School or how her daughter's teachers are. I left every class bored and feeling like I had learned nothing and wasted my time, which is saying a LOT since I am really interested in the topic of women in the workplace and the readings we did. Section was the same in lack of interest and engagement.
Professor Brinton is really nice and very knowledgeable. However, this class is not academically rigorous; I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who has taken sociology classes or women's studies courses in the past.
If you are interested in gender inequality within the workplace, Prof. Brinton is the most amazing resource for the subject and the class if very informative.
As an MCB concentrator, I hadn't taken a dedicated humanities course before, so I didn't really know what to expect. I had a few misgivings at the beginning (total lack of audiovisual anything in the teaching process, inability to make section due to scheduling conflicts), but I soon found that I enjoyed the course and found it to be very painless. The readings are short; the midterms are pretty easy as long as you do the readings; the final paper isn't bad at all if you start early (which I unfortunately was not able to due to another final).
This class was very relevant to life after Harvard, and the readings were some of the best I've ever had in a class. We didn't spend too much time discussing in lecture, but overall the course was enjoyable. Excellent for someone who has never taken a Soc course before. I would highly recommend this course for seniors as they apply for jobs.
Although the information presented in this class might seem interesting, the class itself is not very interesting and lacks structure. It is a frustrating course.
This course's topic and materials are extremely interesting and relevant to Harvard students. However, the course is tricky. The grading is tough, and there's little feedback. The class had so much potential but it fell a little short.
The course is very interesting with reasonable readings.
The expectations of this course are not made clear. You will be assigned little to no work every week aside from the readings, so your grade is mostly made up from your midterm grades and final paper. The professor stresses precision when answering the midterm questions (think verbatim from the readings) so it is difficult to do well in the exams. Discussions during lecture and sections were not helpful in clarifying course material, and often went off topic.
This class gave a great overview about the issues that women face in the workplace and why they continue to persist.
Only take this course if you are really interested in the topic. Even though Mary is an amazing person and researcher (one of the best in her field), she is a poor lecturer, and you will feel like you are not learning much and struggling at the same time. The material, however, is very interesting.
I loved this class so much. I learned so much, and I actually feel like it made me a better person and a more educated citizen.
This course is really interesting  for the readings. Those are great! You'll learn a lot. But might as well just get those from a friend/download the syllabus and read them on your own. Prof. Brinton's lectures were almost astonishingly unhelpful. They rarely focused on the readings we had just done, since we fell behind after about 2 classes, and even when they did, they were mostly just review of what the author had said, with very little analysis. Otherwise she would waste half of class time telling anecdotes from her personal life, or, my favorite, when she used an entire class to have us help her come up with ideas for a talk she was supposed to give later that day. There's very little encouragement of discussion, or, really, critical thinking at all  the exams are explicitly non-analytical, and just expect you to regurgitate information you've learned. 

So yeah  don't bother.
Stay engaged with the instructors. Ask for practice questions and get acquainted with their style of grading before taking the first one.
I recommend this class because it is interesting and useful for real-world conversations.
Don't be fooled by the fact that this is an intro-level course. If this is your first sociology course, you'll struggle on the midterms and on the final essay. Writing for a sociology class is very different from writing for an English class or a history class; sociology may be a "soft" science, but it requires very precise and scientific writing. If you don't figure out what the professor wants from you in terms of writing early on in the course, your grade will suffer.
