Amazing tutorial. Kaia is such an amazing professor. I really don't have enough words to describe how awesome this class was
A great junior tutorial if you are interested in social justice, race, and class. Made me really reflect on why I study Sociology. Professor Kaia creates a warm supportive class environment and clearly is passionate about the topic and about her students. A great insightful experience. Highly recommend.
This course was really great. Because of the small class size, the discussions were always really engaging. It was also a space to talk about really hard to talk about issues. While it isn't always grounded in sociology, the readings were always interesting. Kaia is a great professor who was really good at keeping the course interesting through field trips, guest speakers, free writes and discussions. Its also a really great space to begin developing your ideas about your own personal research interests. I would highly recommend this class. It was my favorite of the semester!
Professor Stern is extremely flexible but I wasn't sure what she was looking for when it came to our writing assignments. This course is more about Mass Incarceration and not a broad overview of Race, Poverty and Justice.
I believe that this is the most important class offered at Harvard. It opened my eyes and created questions that I am sure I will grapple with for the rest of my life.
This course is such a unique opportunity - take it if you can! Kaia and Cathy are two of the most passionate, inspiring teachers you will ever meet, and the environment of learning in a prison gives relevance to the sociological issues you will study in the course. This class is by far the most formative and engaging course I've taken here.
This class will change your life. People say that there are classes at Harvard that you must take--well YOU REALLY REALLY REALLY HAVE TO TAKE THIS CLASS. I made lasting relationships with my peers and teacher. I learned so much, and it was an invaluable educational experience for me.
best class at harvard, an experience you will never forget, changes the way you think about so many things
If you are interested in racial and economic injustice within the criminal justice system and society at large, PLEASE TAKE THIS CLASS! I can honestly say that this was the most rewarding and eyeopening experience of my academic career. In no other classroom setting, of which I'm aware, are students encouraged to connect with others to such a degree. Also, Kaia is perhaps the best professor that I have come across at Harvard so far. The readings and assignments are interesting and manageable, and the classroom discussions resonates with me throughout the week. It was really a great learning experience.
This class is an amazing experience that is not only academically challenging, but pushes you to think about issues on a more personal level. You have the opportunity to engage in honest and intense discussions about different aspects of the U.S. that affects particular groups of people. By the end of the course you'll have would have had the opportunity to engage with the people in the course on multiple levels. The fact that the course content sometimes leads to personal narratives about where one comes creates an environment in which we are pushed to think about things in unfamiliar ways.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The experience of going into a Prison and actually hearing people who are imprisoned talk about issues such as incarceration, justice, class/race divides, etc. was a once in a lifetime opportunity. This class will change the way you look at important issues.
This class is amazing and really transformed the way I think about the world, in particular the inequalities that exist between "mainstream" American and the ghettos and how those inequalities came to exist.
Take this class if you have the opportunity. Even though it requires you to wake up early in the morning, waking up was never a problem and I always looked forward to this class. The experience is like no other and extremely valuable. The people you will meet, the discussions, and the learning that takes place are all unforgettable.
This is an unbelievably unique educational experience.  I can't recommend it enough.  It takes some dedication to get up at 6am once a week, but is more than worth it for the class that meets inside a prison. You really won't get a chance to do something like this with any other course.  A select group of students who are imprisoned there take the same class with the Harvard students as part of the BU Prison Program.  Putting real life stories and hearing opinions on the readings was the most educational part of the entire thing, and the teacher was also fantastic.  You get to know the students from both Harvard and the prison through a group project at the end of the course.  If you are a sociology concentrator, seriously consider taking this class.  You won't regret it.
Take it. You'll learn more about people in this course than you ever will reading any book in a class that meets in WJH.
Definitely an amazing experience that makes you think deeply on academic (and personal) levels! Kaia is a fantastic person to work with and the class attracts enthusiastic and driven students. If you have the opportunity to take this course, do it!!
This is a once in a lifetime opportunity. I have never taken a class like this before and I doubt that I will ever find another one. I learned so much about the class topics but also a great deal about myself. Working with the men at Norfolk was honestly so inspiring and eye-opening. I am so grateful that I had the chance. Kaia is an amazing teacher! The class size is really small so you will get to know the other students pretty well. I can't think of any other class that I would be excited to get up at 6:30 am every Thursday to go to. It is a significant time commitment but I truly enjoyed it and am sad that it is over!
