Take if interested in understanding and analyzing how neighborhoods (mostly within cities) work.
This was a great class if you're interested in cities, especially theoretically.  The material is very interesting, and surprisingly varied. Lectures are interesting, and if you do the readings you can get a lot out of them. Jessica's sections were great! You also gain useful fieldwork skills.
Really interesting course that will allow you to get on the ground and get your hands dirty in real sociology research. If you're at all interested in urban policy, neighborhoods, or theories concerning social disorder, this is the course for you.
This is an awesome class. If you're interested in cities or policy or urban problems, this should be considered necessary to take before graduating. Great overview of theoretical and sociological literature on neighborhoods. Good summary of existing debates over issues like "disorder", and more than willing to problematize current frameworks. Exciting assignments that take you into Boston and can help you learn about your hometown also. Treated this as a methods workshop for mapping, ethnography, sociological research, etc. and got so much out of it!
This is a great course! The subject material was very interesting. You learn a lot about inequality in neighborhoods. Professor Sampson is also a great lecturer, and Jessica was an awesome TF.
It's a class that's relevant to our time. Understanding the phenomena that exist in the city is crucial to broadening your world view
Engaging with really important concepts, allows a lot of freedom for you to study whatever you want, great readings + teaching staff
This class is excellent! It takes you through the development of theories about urban social structure and change from the early 20th century through the present, and it also provides a broad understanding of current research on the topic. Professor Sampson is the leading scholar on the topic, so he knows a lot and often brings in additional analyses he has done recently to look at the problems discussed. The class ends in a research paper, but the theories and methodologies discussed throughout the course lead straight into the paper, so it is really quite painless and rather fun. This is by far one of the best-organized and most enlightening courses I have taken at Harvard.
Very engaging in both lecture and section. Readings are great, assignments are not too difficult but very though-provoking
This class will force you to read and consider a lot of the sociologists that seem really key to understanding the city in the 20th and 21st century. The class attracted a wide range of students, not just from sociology, but seemed really well geared towards both groups. Some of the assignments will probably be clearer in the future, but even for a first-taught course it worked fairly well!
I absolutely loved this class. You will never look at cities/ neighborhoods the same again. The readings are great, and Professor Sampson is a great lecturer and expert on the material. Take it!!!
Professor Sampson may tend to ramble during lecture. It's interesting, but make sure you understand the theory. The exercises are really enjoyable, but don't put the final project off to the last minute.
This is a useful class if you have a future interest in urban policy. The readings are very canonical to the field and Prof. Sampson is very knowledgable... he's a quant so expect a lot of data in the lectures--this can be both good and bad. Recommended for anyone who has an interest in better understanding the past, present, and future of American cities. Would also potentially be a good class for juniors in sociology who want to get an early start on their thesis through the final research paper.
if you're interested in cities, definitely take it.  the readings are really well chosen to give you a good sense of what's going on.  the assignments can be time consuming but fun, Jess is great as well.Lecture is going to be boring so bring homework or something?
Very good class. Was on shaky feet for part of the semester as it sorted itself out, and the midterm was frightening, but in the end the class was great.
Be prepared for lots of theory and racking your brains. A very enjoyable course though. Make sure to participate.
