need background work in theory to fully appreciate course
Some of the theoretical readings are hard to make sense of and get through. The works that were more empirically grounded were far more accessible and readable. Professor Lamont encourages all students to feel comfortable participating regardless of their background in sociology.
If you are interested in taking culture seriously in an area of study--inequality, networks, etc--this is the class to start with.
This class gives deep insights into the world of Cultural Sociology
It was a very interesting class with excellent course content but the class was a high level of difficultly that required more studying than the average course.
This is a difficult course, but a great one to learn theories in cultural sociology.
The class is an awesome way to engage this vast, growing and important subfield in sociology with a great professor; to think seriously about culture as a field of study; depending on your project, the course can be indispensable.
This class is an excellent way of gaining exposure to the work of past and present scholars studying cultural processes.  There is a ton of reading in this class, but a good balance of theory and empirical research.  Professor Lamont promotes a positive space for asking questions and thinking deeply about theory and methodology.
It is definitely very demanding, but you do learn a lot and feel like you have a general sense of the material, plus you get excellent feedback on a potential project.
This course will really push you, but Professor Lamont takes students' ideas seriously and will push you to develop your sociological and analytical thinking. You will also be exposed to a huge amount of literature in the field, which is very useful.
This is a fantastic class. If you are interested in cultural sociology, I would highly recommend it. It isn't offered every year, so I would definitely consider taking it when it is available. Be aware it is very focused on cultural sociology and a lot of work, but as long as that is what you are looking for it is an amazing course.
This class is outstanding. If you have a chance to take a class with Michle, I strongly recommend it.
Michele is fantastic. You think and learn a lot. Read everything and try and be open minded to approaching topics culturally.
