This is a great class at Harvard. The content you learn is not only very realistic and usable, but it is one of the very few classes that has a hands-on component. The simulations are both realistic and very fun. Professor Leary is awesome because she is both very professional about her work and also caring about her students. Coming into class every week and not worrying about paying attention to boring lecture slide or staying awake was such a refreshing feeling. We did a lot of talking, negotiating, and learning in this class. I loved all of it.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. I cannot praise the course enough and think it should be a requirement for understanding human interactions
Fantastic course. I am graduating this year, definitely one of the best courses I have taken here.
This is one of the most useful courses I have taken at Harvard and one of the most engaging, hands down. Professor Leary is an amazing lecturer who engages the class and always makes the material interesting and relevant to current issues. Participating in one-on-one negotiations is a key part of the class and teaches you how to handle conflicts, mediate conflict and find alternate solutions. I would recommend this course wholeheartedly to anyone who has even the remotest interest in better managing conflict in their professional or personal life!
This class was a lot of fun! The professor is soooo articulate and really kind. She is incredibly intelligent, and you will gain a solid foundation of conflict negotiation.
This class is a phenomenal class. It's one of the few at Harvard that will teach you practical skills that you can use in the real world. Professor Leary is amazing and she is an amazing discussion facilitator. She's also quite experienced in the field of negotiations and was able to provide tremendous insight into the process of negotiation. I felt like I learned SO much from this course that I can bring with me after I graduate. Definitely worth it for anyone!
It's really one of those hidden gems. Prof. Leary is really great, the course involves interactive negotiations almost every class, the workload is very manageable, the cases are interesting and you learn skills directly applicable to the real-world, which is usually very rare at Harvard. So I would definitively take it!
While I did not find the course very difficult, I found that it really challenged my mind. The negotiation material had to be practiced in order to make an impact during the simulations; this meant that the class bled over into my real life, as I practiced identifying conflict and negotiation situations in the dining hall, with my blockmates, and with my family. This course absolutely changed the way I think and approach social and professional situations.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! Best class I've ever taken at Harvard. So relaxing, yet I learned a ton for my personal and professional life. TAKE. IT. JUST DO IT.
This class is the best class you will take at Harvard. Professor Leary is not just an amazing professor, but a wonderful person as well. I have never met anyone speak with such purpose and articulation. She is truly someone to be admired, and her ability to lead a class is incredible. The simulations are extremely fun, the memos are not time consuming and you can actually learn a lot about your own negotiation style through writing them. In addition, you will learn so much form your classmates. Take this class!!!
Take it! Professor Leary is an outstanding teacher, and the material and simulations are engaging, applicable, and enjoyable.
As a senior, this has been the most rewarding course I have taken at Harvard. Not only was the learning experience incredibly enjoyable, this is the ONLY course at Harvard where I've left feeling as if I've acquired a tangible, marketable skill (rather than just broadening my knowledge base, or honing analytical skills). This class has made me feel empowered and competent as a negotiator, and I feel as if the skillset I acquired in the course is transferable and applicable to virtually any negotiation situation. I am very pleased with the course, and I wish Harvard offered more courses like it.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard. The professor is great, the workload is very manageable, and the topic is really interesting. Definitely take this class, it's a lot of fun
This is one my most rewarding classes at Harvard. Fun, engaging, and relevant with a professor who cares and is fair and honest
The practical skills taught in this class are a must for students who will be entering professions that require meetings with parties who may have different interests than you. Negotiation skills, in general, are extremely useful. Don't pass this up
Negotiation and Conflict Transformation was my favorite class this semester out of my 5 courses; I really looked forward to it every week, and always wished we had more than just a 2-hour class a week. If you like to think outside of the box, and want to practice your social/speaking skills that you can take to a negotiating table, take this class - not only because we actually practiced representing opposing parties in neighborhood, diplomatic, and business cases (both mediated and non-mediated), but also because the whole class is based on speaking, engaging in two-hour conversations with all your peers, with Dr. Leary guiding it. Do you want to do skype sessions with Amsterdam, with Cape Town, South Africa, for instance? Do you want to have experts in public and business improvisation, public diplomacy, architecture and public negotiation, etc. come speak to you in class time? Dr. Leary had the incredible skill of making her classes really dynamic, enjoyable, diverse, engaging; you are involved every second of it. It is not a hard class, but you are really pushed to think beyond just a simple negotiation, with one person wanting to get something and that's it. The way we learned about theory, and applied it to different cases, and then always engaged in profound conversations about the negotiation simulations, really has changed the way I view negotiations in the real world in every field. This class will probably be one of the best I will have taken by the end of my years in this college. You really practice a real-life, applicable skill.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Leary is so kind and engaging. She cares about each student, learns everyone's names within a couple weeks, and is brilliant. I learned so much about negotiation--how to do it myself, why it's important, etc. It really is a course you won't forget!
The practice cases and the chance to work through the frameworks with our classmates. The readings were also very interesting and on point with what was discussed in lecture. Professor Leary is a magnificent teacher who not only is smart and accomplished, but also is very thoughtful and considerate of her students. I thoroughly enjoyed this course -- it was the perfect elective! Not too much work, but very engaging class and assignments that allowed you to take what you learned in lecture and apply it to everyday life.
This was an absolutely fantastic class. I learned so many practical skills that I felt like I would be able to transfer into real life skills. The lectures are very interesting, and the readings are short and to the point. The weekly memos sounded bad at first, but definitely helped enhance the understanding of course material (which isn't the case for many other classes).
-Very interesting material-Assignments allowed us to apply what we had learned-I learned applicable skills for once
Sneaky amount of writing, the simulations were fun and two hour long classes were never a problem, pretty much learn about negotiation in the first 3 or 4 classes and then apply it to different situations in the latter half.
You learn that almost everything in our daily lives involves negotiation and you become more aware of the stakeholders and options surrounding you on a daily basis. Professor Leary was very knowledgeable and kind! The workload is not bad at all!
This class is extremely interesting in the first few weeks and a lot of fun throughout. The professor is fun, engaging, and able to provide an academic outlook on an everyday action. It will help you in any field and any interaction. This is what a gen-ed should look like. It isn't a gut class at all but is not going to be your most rigorous. It balances a fair reading amount, assignments, and class time. It's very well designed.
It's applicable to your life. Very very useful. You start seeing negotiations everywhere.
This is one of those course you come to Harvard to take. Keep up with the readings and materials (and there aren't that many) or you will not get as much as the course can offer! Also, Professor Leary is the best!
Great class! Learned a lot and feel a lot more prepared for the real world.
This was an incredible class to take. Negotiation is vital on all fronts in your life. This course will help you think in constructive ways to create more optimal solutions for all stakeholders in negotiations you may have in the future. There is a ton of writing and readings are very dense. However, in hindsight, the memos allow you to have very engaging negotiation simulations and get you to understand the material.
This is a great course that will get you thinking about every interaction you have. Really changed my perspective on any sort of negotiation situation and life really....
This is a fantastic class that anyone that wants to be a more effective human being should take. Definitely the most practical class I've taken at Harvard.
This is an amazing class. If you get the opportunity, TAKE IT. I felt like this was one of the few classes at Harvard where I came away with a concrete skill, not to mention that the class was very enjoyable.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard.  It is applicable in so many different ways.  As a senior going into negotiation for salary, this class taught me how to stand up for myself and make my opinion heard.  It has so many real world applications, which can't be said for many of the classes here at Harvard.  I learned so much and had so much fun while doing it.
Not a difficult class, but I learned so many fascinating, practical ideas that I can actually see myself using when I negotiate for my salary, discuss future opportunities, or even just converse with my parents or siblings in a heated conversation. And it is not a difficult course. If you're lucky enough to get lotteried in, take it!
The course is a nice change of pace from other Harvard classes because it teaches you real-life applicable skills.
There are negotiation situations virtually anywhere and all the time. This course teaches you this important real life skill. Kimberlyn Leary is a truly great professor. I recommend this course with enthusiasm.
Awesome, unique class. While some of the subject matter might seem basic or intuitive, the negotiation simulations will make you realize just how hard it is to apply the theories outlined in the book. Work load is fairly light. If you are used to writing for other classes then you will find this course very easy. If you are not as used to writing the class may be a bit more difficult- but still very, very manageable.
This is a great introduction to negotiation. The best thing about it is you get actual practice doing negotiations. After a while, you get  a sense about the right way to approach a negotiation. You learn how to figure out the other side's interests and figure out creative ways to make the other side happy, while still staying strong on what is important to you
