The class is more of a technique-based class rather than a theory class. If you want to conduct your own network analysis, you are suggested to select this course.
Professor Marsden is incredibly knowledgeable; can't imagine there are many around who are better suited to teach this sort of class.
It's really best if you have a specific assignment that involves some form of social network analysis and you already have data for it. Otherwise, you'll learn a lot but the course is very so you might come away with a shallow understand of a broad range of concepts -- not necessarily a bad thing, but not the best way to push your research forward.
If you are interested in doing research on social networks, definitely take it.
Professor Marsden is a great teacher and is intelligent and fair. He is very helpful. I would not take this course, however, unless you have a serious network analysis project in your academic portfolio.
Professor Marsden is a fantastic teacher and the class was extremely informative. The material is cutting-edge and very interesting.
Take it if you have a strong interest in the area and are prepared to do your own reading, for example because you have a research project underway that requires network analysis. If you don't, it's difficult to keep motivated throughout the course.
IT WILL BE HELPFUL TO THE STUDENTS WITH SPECIFIC RESEARCH QUESTION AND DATA.
The area of social network analysis is a growing and exciting field, and this course is a good introduction.  However, the lecture style is dry, and you may be able to learn just as well from a textbook.  There aren't a lot of assignments, but that means it will be up to you whether you learn from the class.
If you are looking for a very broad introduction to the field of network analysis, this class is for you.  If you want a more specific/tailored approach to one aspect of network analysis, this is not the class for you.
This course teaches you how to measure social networks. UCINET is the default software. I didn't find a lot of examples of interesting research questions (pertaining to public health) that could be addressed in productive ways with social network analysis. This may well be a lack of understanding on my behalf.
Useful if you have a networks project in mind, and no previous experience with the tools.
I recommend enthusiastically only IF YOU KNOW WHAT YOU WANT OUT OF THIS CLASS.
Must have a strong interest in the material to make this course work for you.
It would be helpful to have a research idea in mind before taking this course.
If you want to learn how to produce descriptive statistics of networks and get familiar with network analysis software, this is the class for you.
Peter is very clear and coherent. The class is well-structured and gives you a wonderful, in depth introduction to networks.
I would only recommend this students who have a definite idea of how they can use SNA in their own research. Thinking about how each weeks material relates to your own work will help keep you motivated and give you a better understanding of the material.
Soc 275 starts from the basics of social network analysis and proceeds to take students through a variety of methods and approaches. All of the material presented is very clear and assignments do a good job of reinforcing the simpler and more important concepts. Students also get an opportunity to do a networks project of their own with the advice and guidance of the instructor, an expert in social network analysis.
