Every meeting of this course is high yield in that I came away from every course having developed both awareness of communication goals and also actionable strategies for communicating better. The professors are invested in seeing you develop these skills and thus are always on point. It's a great experience as a systems biology graduate student!
The most surprising thing might be how you all will bond during this course. The best section is Galit's! Make sure you pick an NSF proposal on something you really like because you will have to generate a LOT of assignments about it.
It's a great time to hang out with fellow sys. bio. G1s and get comfortable sharing ideas and giving and receiving critical feedback.
This course is more useful than you may think.
Take assignments seriously but don't take yourself too seriously. If you want to try a new presentation style, go ahead an try it out. There are very few times in your life where you will be giving presentations in such a supportive (and non-judgmental environment).
It is an amazing opportunity not only to improve your communication skills and awareness of how to recognize and prepare effective communications strategies but also to get to know 3 amazing faculty member of the program and your classmates.
Only for SB graduate students, so you don't really have a choice on whether to take it or not. Great idea, love that the department is doing this. Could be really great with some improvements. It's a new course, so I anticipate it will only get better in the future!
It's fun and helpful.
Great class! Will get to know your classmates well and will establish trust to ask each other for feedback in the future.
It's a great way to socialize with your class every week, and the presentation section is very useful.
This is an amazing way of improving your presentation skills.
This course is amazing. I would make this course a requirement for all graduate students (well.... let's keep the sysbio sb212 class small..... the other departments can figure it out by themselves)
One of the most useful and fun courses that I have ever taken. Very interactive with lots of activities to create, evaluate, and give feedback on communication.
This is a fantastic class, only for the entering systems biology PhD class. It should be viewed as an opportunity to bond with your class-mates, interact with faculty who have a lot to teach you and of course hone essential communication skills. How much you get from it depends on how seriously you take the opportunity to really venture out of your comfort zone and actively work to improve your communication skills. Class-mates, instructors and occasional guest speakers are all a resource to exploit and learn from, both through frontal interactions in class and through e-mail or one-on-one sessions to go over your draft work and get feedback. The class also teaches you how to constructively give and receive feedback. It is extremely practical and involves mock presentations/fellowship proposal writing/graphic design, out of which the proposal was probably the only real time consuming assignment. With the right group and the right attitude - a wonderful experience.
