The course is a great way to learn about the wide range of current research in synthetic biology.
Very good course. The TFs are helpful and chill, and the format of the class is interesting and thus engaging. Presentations are discussion-based, so it's a very good group dynamic.
A very fun, very educational course about an extremely exciting field of biology. Requires very little work, but will reward you for doing that work seriously. Really apply yourself on the final project at the end of the semester, this is the most important part of the course, and everything else leads up to and palls in importance by comparison to it. Very important: seek lots of feedback on your project from the TFs, early and often.Although nothing is required to take this course, I recommend a fairly solid grounding in biology. You will not benefit from taking this course if you do not have an intermediate level of background.
Great for an easy third grad school class.
This was a very relaxed course that gave a broad overview of synthetic biology.
If I got an A: Excellent survey of selected topics in Synthetic Biology. Very little work turned in means that the course is all about discussing the science and not worrying about exams and such. It also means that you need to be on top of the assignments that are due, as they are worth a substantial portion of your grade.If I did not get an A: There is an opaqueness to the grading system (though this happens in several other classes). For the presentations, make sure your partner knows what he/she is talking about too, as this reflects badly upon you when grading time comes.
This course is really fun and engaging. The instructors and guest lecturers are great, and the papers are also quite relevant. Would recommend a familiarity with reading primary literature (for undergrads) before taking the course.
If you are into Synthetic Biology, this class is for you!  You will get introduced to a bunch of interesting topics in the emerging field.  For undergrads considering the course, it is not too difficult if you reach out to the TFs for help.
Great way to get introduced to synthetic biology.
