great course!  good professors!
SB201 provides an excellent coverage of new experimental and theoretical methods in systems biology, while requiring only minimal background experience in biology and mathematics
very informal and fun class.  Interesting papers and great teaching.
The Profs. have put together an interesting set of papers, but it's a lot of discussion so the discussion will depend a lot on you and your classmates.
An excellent course designed for graduate students. You get out of it as much as you put into it.  Provides exposure to biological questions where mathematical modeling or quantitative treatment can give further insight.
A great opportunity to discuss current topics in systems biology with faculty in the field.
It is a great seminar class focused on discussion, led by thoughtful and enthusiastic faculty.
It is a phenomenal opportunity to get to know the faculty.  The project can be a great opportunity to think hard about a topic.  I took it as a chance to learn about something totally new and different.
It's ideal for someone who wants to go into the field of modeling biological systems.  As a physicist, it was very useful because systems biologist model systems in a way that is fundamentally different that the way physicists go about modeling complex systems.  Exposure to these different techniques was especially useful.
This class is one of few opportunities to spend 3 hours with Marc Kirschner every week ... and it's also one of the most practical and yet laid-back science classes I've taken.
This is definitely not a passive class, requires your (and everyone else's_ active participation to make it good.
The course is definitely different from most other biology classes I've taken and will improve your skills in giving presentations and writing reviews. The papers are also interesting. I think it is a class worth taking.
This class provides excellent preparation in an ability to critically consider/formulate research questions in developmental/systems biology and present effectively (whether orally or in writing) to a group; it was the best, most personally useful, and most enjoyable graduate class I have taken so far
This is one of the best classes I have taken as a graduate student. If you are at all interested in developmental biology or evolution this class is a great fit, it covers very interesting topics with extremely bright instructors and students.
This course will acquaint you with a 'systems biological' perspective of developmental processes, introduce you to numerous open questions in developmental biology, and develop your writing and presentation skills. The course is not technical, and requires little direct experience with mathematical methods. The quality of faculty mentorship makes this course a valuable experience that is highly recommended.
It helped improve my paper reading and discussion skills. It was also a good introduction to the big questions in developmental biology without getting bogged down in the details of particular systems.
There's a whole level of "system" organization that operates on top of individual cells to generate an organism; this course gives a glimpse of that.
