You can learn the coolest stuff in bimolecular engineering and synthetic biology from the excellent researchers in the most interactive way!
Take it
It's an interesting course-- nice overview of synthetic biology.
Too much DNA nanotechnology, but still a solid course.
Fun.
Excellent Course! Provided such insightful breakthroughs of current state of DNA nanotechnology and synthetic biology (genome engineering).
Take it to get inspired and explore a new field. Don't expect a traditional classroom experience or any feedback on your work. This is more of a seminar course.
Amazing way to explore creative applications of biology, and invent some ideas of your own
Extremely interesting, engaging, close look at synthetic biology mostly as it's done at the Wyss. Fantastic opportunity to learn directly from instructors who are conducting the cutting-edge science you're learning about, have guest lectures from leaders in their various fields, work with developers of the software you're using, etc. etc. That said, very low stress and low time commitment. At times the lack of expectations makes it feel less like a class and more like a cool lecture series. You get out of it what you put into it. Would be great for first-year grad students interested in seeing some of the really neat research happening around Harvard and MIT.
Good class but you get out of it what you put in. If you're not too excited / interested, maybe shy away.
Amazing class. Definitely one of the best I have taken at Harvard.
Best course of my life...outstanding coverage of advanced and cutting edge topics that is flourishing in this academic community.
It is a nice setting for getting to know the current state of the art of many diverse field in synthetic biology.
A great overview of synthetic biology.  There is a definite focus on DNA nanotechnology but it is overall a good class.
This class is really what makes Harvard great. Nothing beats learning about cutting edge breakthroughs in synthetic biology directly from the researchers doing it. The lectures are captivating and informative, and the instructors actually really care about our learning the material. Fresh coffee and pastries every class doesn't hurt either :)
IF YOU ARE AN UNDERGRADUATE INTERESTED IN MOLECULAR ENGINEERING AND SYNTHETIC BIOLOGY:Do not hesitate to take this class. As a junior in Chemical and Physical Biology, I (along with my roommate who is in Chemistry) had a wonderful time learning about cutting-edge molecular engineering and synthetic biology from the leaders in the field (i.e. Peng Yin, William Shih, Jack Szostak) in a truly low-pressure environment.I can definitely see this as being an inspiration and catalyst for entering research as an undergraduate. You get exposed to a variety of topics from the experts themselves and can EASILY talk with them after class about research opportunities. Peng Yin and William Shih are wonderfully accessible and supportive professors whose labs are JUST AROUND THE CORNER from the seminar room. If you are concerned about the rigor or your lack of background, don't worry! I am fairly convinced that anyone regardless of concentration or year can take away something valuable and do just fine in the course. It might be helpful, however, to have at least taken LS1a to have a basic molecular and cellular understanding. Finally, don't worry about the commute. It takes about 20-25 minutes using the rather convenient M2 shuttle and the trip itself is a good way to decompress and chat with classmates or simply enjoy the Boston skyline as you go over the Harvard Bridge.
This class is a fantastic and approachable survey of DNA nanotechnology, with a fair coverage of other topics in rational biological design. Importantly, it is project based, so you leave with new, workable skills in design and implementation of DNA origami and circuits.
A good way to learn various topics in synthetic biology, and especially a good way to meet professors who practice it in Boston.
This class is a lot of fun and is also one where you get out exactly what you put in.  The lectures are extremely interesting and engaging.  The projects can be a little tricky.
This class is a perfect introduction to the exciting field of molecular engineering and synthetic biology.
This class is more focused on nanotechnology than on synthetic biology.
This is a really good course if you want to get a feel for bioengineering and synthetic biology. It provides a fantastic platform from which you can go into as much or as little detail as you want.
The class is extremely interesting and the professors (William and Peng) are very approachable and helpful during the semester. The emphasis in the first half is on DNA nanotechnology, which can be daunting to some. However, by the end, students have a thorough understanding of the course. It is definitely meant for graduate students, as it has little work, and has an emphasis on current research. The weeks that projects are due (3 projects total), expect to spend 20+ hours working on them, but besides this, not much else is required. You also get to listen to lectures by amazing scientists (George Church, Pam Silver, Jack Szostak) in an intimate and familiar environment (<10 students).
This is a great course if you are thinking about going into synthetic biology. It does a great job of broadly covering a lot of exciting topics as well as teaching you certain topics like DNA origami in enough detail that you could do a project with it.
Opportunity to learn a lot of new things.
If you are interested in synthetic biology, take this class!
A good introduction to interesting methods in a wide variety of specialty fields, especially DNA nanotechnology.Course has a lot of guest lecturers.
Excellent survey of the field. Assignments were enjoyable and extremely helpful in understanding the material. Although they required a great deal of thought and preparation, we received lots of feedback, which made them seem less difficult.
