If it weren't for Jeremy's section of the course, I would not recommend taking it so strongly. His lectures are so wonderfully clear and the problem sets do an amazing job of solidifying points made in lecture. Johan's lecture on the other hand, are a jumbling confusing mess of assumed knowledge, no review or reiteration of previously made points, and unfriendliness to questions. You learn some really interesting things about stochastic systems, but sadly mostly through section, the problem sets, and Johan's online notes.People say the problem sets are hard, but they really aren't, they are coherent and pedagogical. Only when you get to Johan's part, the problem sets get confusing and not so instructive so you need to work in teams to trudge through the mess.As to required background, you definitely need differential equations from the beginning and at the very least be taking probability concurrently for Johan's section.
SB200 is a broad, not-too-difficult, and ultimately useful introduction to modeling various molecular-level or cellular-level processes in systems biology.
In seeking to predict and describe large-scale patterns of behavior in biological systems, the course's top-down approach to computational biology is refreshing amidst a plethora of other "bottom-up" courses about biological data mining and gen-/transcript-/prote- -omics. A willingness to work with and comprehend the mathematics behind systems biology is a required trait for this class. Furthermore, just because the course focuses on systems analysis, it does not mean that biology takes a backseat; indeed, the utility of the models taught in this class depends on whether they fall in line with biological first-principles and whether they can unite experimental results around them.
fantastic course, is programming-intensive but all the programming assignments do lead you to a better understanding of the material
You gain a lot of practice with computational tools, but it is extremely time-consuming. If you have a primarily biology background, you may struggle with the problem sets, especially when you first learn MatLab and Mathematica. But it is rewarding when you see yourself improve with those tools! The last module's problem sets, however, are quite different and extremely difficult.
The class could easily be titled "Mathematical Modeling of Biological Systems."  It is a great course to gain an introduction to quantitative methods and mathematical modeling in biology. The course is more of a survey course in the sense that each of the three lecturers focuses on their own specialty. I learned the most from problemsets and sections in this class, whereas the professors' lectures were hit-or-miss. If you have a math background and want an intro to biological applications, than this is definitely a good course for you.  You will find this course challenging if you have not had prior exposure to Linear Algebra, Ordinary Differential Equations, Matlab or advanced statistics.
Provides the skills, and ample practice, for building theoretical models of processes in molecular biology, in particular the dynamics of genetic / biochemical networks. This course provides enough training for these skills to be immediately applied to real research.
The problem sets take a lot of time, but the class is awesome.
I learned a lot of the sections as well as from the homeworks.
Systems biology is the future. This course is an excellent first step in preparing for what is to come!
You will definitely have to work hard to get it, but the grading format is very low pressure (almost all problem sets)...if you put the time in you can get the answers.
There are problem sets every week and they take a lot of time. It's a good idea to take the course with friends so you can help each other out. It's an interesting class and I recommend it if you can make the time commitment.
This is a wonderful introduction to systems biology that is fairly painless. Definitely take this course! Both instructors are interesting and you will learn many new quantitative methods.
Excellent introduction to the conceptual and mathematical approaches of contemporary systems biology. Strong math focus with emphasis only on concepts from biology. There is a large workload but homework is consistently useful for learning.
Great class! The problem sets sometimes take a great deal of time, but they are pretty enjoyable for any biologist interested in learning the quantitative side of biological analysis. The lectures are very informative and fascinating!
Excellent for graduate students or undergrads with interest in systems biology. Homework isn't easy but I definitely learned a lot and found the TAs were very helpful. Basically a course that introduces you to the field of Systems Biology. And Jeremy is an AMAZING lecturer!
Entirely problem set based
To a student more focused in biology or biochemistry, I would recommend this class if they can understand the mathematical roots of functional constraints of cellular processes. I found the approach in this course much more helpful in comprehending thermodynamic/kinetic-type influences on cellular and molecular behavior than my gas-phase-heavy chemistry course in undergrad. But I would warn any biochemist that there will be a great deal of math, and if that's not how they want to approach this issue they should not take the course. (Their loss.)I don't know how I would pitch the course towards an applied math student.
The homeworks in the second half of the class are much more difficult than in the first.  You should have a good background in statistical probability (Stat 110 is very helpful for this class).
This course teaches the popular cutting edge tools used in mathematical modeling in Systems Biology. If you want to understand them, and realize their limitations, this course is great. But don't expect to see anything different than the tools that are used routinely by these PIs.
Be prepared for extremely time consuming problem sets, which often consume whole days at a time.  However, you learn a lot through the problem sets that is not covered in much detail in class. The problem sets are particularly challenging, but definitely doable, if you only have the 'recommended' background of college level calculus.
Biologists should learn about math, and this is the most accessible, not to mention relevant, class with equations I've ever had.
This course will change your vision of biology
This class is awesome. Both Profs. Gunawardena and Paulsson are leaders in their field, and you will come our of this class ready to do further research at the cutting-edge intersection of mathematics, the physical sciences, and biology. The problem sets, especially for the second half of the course, take time and labor to get through, so it would be well-advised to devote enough time to them. Fortunately, this semester we also had awesome section leaders (Cameron and Jose) to help us through them!
Both parts are useful and play to the instructors' strengths: Jeremy surveys many different types of approaches utilized in quantitative biology while Johan builds out from the framework and theory of his group.
Of the two halves of the course, the first was much more engaging -- it covered a range of interesting topics, and it was taught well. Problem sets take a fair amount of time in both halves, but are usually not unreasonable. The second half involves doing the same type of problem over and over again, and the lecturing is not as engaging. If given the option, I would take just the first half, but if you need it for the concentration requirement, it's not too bad. No exams, after all. Also, it's important to be somewhat comfortable with matlab/mathematica.
I really enjoyed this course! The two halves of the course are very different (the stochastic portion is more difficult) but both are great. Great class for math-inclined people interested in biology
SB200 is a great course for those looking to learn the most cutting edge methods to model biological systems.  Be forewarned that problem sets can be difficult and time consuming, and that the course is geared toward those with strong math backgrounds (only introductory knowledge of biology is necessary, in my opinion); the course can be very challenging to balance with another difficult class and/or an involved rotation.  However, it's a pretty unique opportunity to learn from some of the best minds in the field today.
SB200 is the perfect class for anyone interested in combining math and biology. It teaches how mathematics is used to study biological systems quantitatively, without the nitpicky details of math - the hardest math you need is mostly algebra - but rather at a conceptual/intuitive level. You'll become familiar with Mathematica and MATLAB, and you'll learn about the cutting edge of quantitative biology. Plus, you won't find many other classes with only problem sets and two paper presentations!
This class is a good introduction to mathematical approaches for modeling and/or simulating mechanistic biological processes such as enzymatic catalysis, transcription, signaling etc. It presents important and interesting concepts that have migrated from systems control theory in engineering into biological research, as well as deterministic and stochastic mathematical tools. You will need to invest quite a bit of time on problem sets, especially for the second half, but they are not outlandishly difficult. Familiarity with Mathematica and Matlab will help but can be learned as you go, especially with the help of friends and colleagues. As always, you will get from this class as much as you are willing to put into it. If you are interested in doing research in the field, it's a good intro. Otherwise, you may find it at least introduced you to a vocabulary useful for understanding what goes on in the systems biology dept. but may not be overly relevant for your own research.
It's really a great course either for biologists who are interested in learning more quantitative approaches towards the subject and for mathematicians who are interested in what's on in the world of biology. Lectures are interesting, and you do learn interesting perspectives on research.
This is an exceptional course that provides excellent course material on dynamics and stochastics in cells. You should know calculus well and have an introductory probability course (i.e. know probability distributions and random variables). You need to work to do the problem sets, but they are not extraordinarily difficult, especially if you work with classmates or get help from TF. I strongly recommend this course
Rather challenging class on very interesting topic. If you wonder about using mathematical modelling and computer simulations in Biology, this class will give you a lot of material to think about.
Highly recommended for G1 Systems Biology students. This class will teach you a lot about modeling, even if you think you already know a lot.
For the people with engineering, chemistry, mathematics background this course is the greatest way to become familiar with biological problems. It is the greatest way to start in computational biology.
This was a great class! I hope it continues to be offered as I've already suggested it to several people. I'm so glad to finally have had a rigorous and quantitative course in biology.
Overall the course is a good survey of dynamical and stochastic systems and the methods used to study them.
Every student with interest in quantitative biology should definitely take this course. It provides the basic tools to start thinking about important problems in biology and other sciences from a rigorous quantitative perspective.
Good class. A lot of work during the semester.Having never done stochastic modeling before, it was a great way to learn.
Highly recommended.  It's a fun and challenging mixture of cool math and cool cutting-edge biology.
I would recommend the first quarter course to anyone with an interest in biology and systems. However, I would not recommend the second half to anyone who is not familiar with MATLAB, or did not study physics or engineering in undergrad.
Great class. Presents a more quantitative approach to biology and a lot of the strengths and limitations of systems biology approaches. Changed the way I view biology.
This class is good for students who have a quantitative background and wish to study biological problems, and for biologists who would like to learn quantitative tools.
If you want to learn about modeling biology using relatively simple math, this is a great course. I think it's less good for math people looking to learn biology.
Expect the problem sets to take up some time during your week, but the additional perspective you'll gain on biology is exciting and refreshing.
The course should be considered as two quarter courses and you should think about what you would gain from each half before enrolling.
Great class for an introduction to programming, statistics and control theory, although other students with more experience in these subjects did find inconsistencies and errors. Professor Paulsson's part of the course is much, much more intense, time-consuming, and difficult.
Anybody preparing to take the course needs to have strong mathematics background.
The first part of the course was terrible. They decided to change the course this year, but the first part was entirely disorganised and for some reason it was decided to go through complicated techniques from pure maths very very quickly, while spending lots of time (3-4 lectures) on Michaelis-Menten and MWC kinetics. In short, the first part was painful and entirely unrewarding. As I fill in this part in January 2011, I still haven't received back problems sets from October from the first part. The second part (Johan's part) on stochastic processes was great and I really learned a lot. The TA for the second part was also very good, enthusiastic and helpful which really helped making the second part of the course amazing, but still very difficult. I would strongly recommend Johan's part to anyone with an interest in quantitative biology.
Stochastic modeling seems to be increasingly important for understanding biological systems and this is the place to learn it.
this course is a must-take for anyone interested in doing research in quantitative biology
No human deserves to be subject to six weeks of stochastic gene expression.
Difficult but introduces a very different perspective on biology. Well worth it.
It was the first year Jeremey had retooled his half of the class and I'm sure next year it will be better. Even if his half isn't going so great, Johan's half is definitely worth it.
If you are interested in modeling moderate scale biological networks, this course will give good basics skills.
It is a good course if you're interested in the subject matter (different methods of modeling biological processes)
Excellent course.  Systems biology is NOT just about integrating a set of differential chemical equations...as was told to me by other students in the biophysics department.
Especially helpful for students with a biological background seeking an introduction to some of the current approaches to modeling the cellular dynamics.  Students with a mathematical or physics background and basic biological knowledge may be bored initially, but later sections cover more stimulating material.
Students coming from more biological or biochemical background will benefit of this course more than students with preparation in mathematics and physics as the quantitative tools presented in the class may be too simplistic for the latter group.
This class is like a box full of toys labeled "everything you need to get started doing systems biology!" (some assembly required)
A lot of time spent, but much of it seems to be busy work rather than conceptual learning
This is an excellent preparation for quantitative thinking in biology.
The problem sets in this class are hard, but they encourage you to think rigorously and are essential for understanding the principles discussed in this class. I learned a lot in this class, and think that at least Johan's section should be mandatory for every Systems Biology PhD student.
If you're well prepared for this class (in terms of background) and ready to spend a lot of time on work, then I would certainly recommend this class.  It is very interesting and can certainly be helpful for those who work in labs and would like to use some mathematical strategies in their research.
Work hard and don't procastinate with the psets.
Great class! Very chill! It's really nice that there isn't a final project or exam. You definitely learn alot from doing the psets!
One of the best systems biology courses at Harvard!
Very good class! Really enjoyable even as an outsider to the field.
Great class! Coming from the perspective of an undergraduate applied math-biology concentrator with more mathematical familiarity than biology, some of the biology was a little specific (especially because many of the students are graduate students in biophysics or systems biology with familiarity in the biological side of things). Really liked both parts of the class. Learned a lot about modeling cellular processes both dynamically and stochastically.
Problem sets teach a lot in this course, take them seriously and if possible solve questions in every possible way.
A fantastic class to take if you are interested in systems biology. You won't want to miss Jeremy's lectures: they are so interesting and instructive. The workload of the class is not too terrible but you learn a ton.
This course is a great introduction to systems biology, and more broadly, to quantitative biology. Johan and Jeremy are really great lecturers who do a great job concisely conveying the main mathematical and biological ideas in a way that is easy to digest. Take this class if you are all interested in quantitative biology, it really changed my perspective on biology as a whole!
