It's amazing. Take it!
It is a lot of fun, painless, a good way to fulfill the language requirement if you have not so already and overall a great experience.
Possibly the most fun class I've taken at Harvard!
Very engaging teacher, a lot of learning and a marvelous time overall
Twi was a great experience in a new language
This is a easygoing and fun course, and Twi is a cool language to learn. The languages department is very gracious, and it is a nice class that you really get out as much as you put in.
This is a great and laid-back class! Prince is very enthusiastic about teaching and truly wants everyone to enjoy speaking Twi!
Good class. A little unorganized, but if you put in the work, you will learn Twi.
This class isn't too hard, including classwork and exams, but the lack of structure makes it hard to learn the language.
It's easy but prepare for less structure than a normal foreign language class.
Be sure to be forward about what you hope to get out of the class and assert what you want to know to take away what you can from the instruction.
LOVED IT! Amazing teacher!
There is a LOT of material to learn in a short time. Be prepared to work hard. But it is very rewarding especially at the end of the semester when you can hold a conversation in a new language.
Take Twi! I've learned a lot this first semester and with only a few other students the professor is always available for additional one-on-one time if that's needed to improve your pronunciation. Its a fun, low stress class that can fulfill your language requirement if you're interested in learning more about Ghana.
The teacher is very enthusiastic and has a very good knowledge of both twi and English. You learn a lot of vocabulary;, and although the classes can be a little fast/unorganized I felt I had a good foundation of the language at the end of the course.
Twi A is great! The pacing of the class is beneficial to those who seriously want to take time to learn and ingest the language.
I would recommend this course with serious reservations because if your goal is to come in and actually learn the language, you will become very frustrated when the class ends up frittering away 1/2 of the entire semester preparing a skit. The skit involves parroting back lines that are still too complicated for you to understand yet because you haven't had enough instructional time actually learning the language! But you don't have that time learning he language under your belt because you will have been wasting so much class time memorizing the skit lines. Its a very avoidable catch-22 created by the bizarre Theater Night policy of the ALP, not by the actual Twi instructor, who is wonderful.
Great class! Prince is great and it's a tight-knit community.
Do not take this class unless you are ready to learn a lot independently. Price is a great guy, but his teaching style is all over the place. You don't know what to expect to learn each week, and not that much material is covered throughout the course of the year.
It is a fun and very helpful course, especially if you plan to travel to Ghana.
AMAZING. FUN. NOT TIME-CONSUMING. WORTH IT. YOU LEARN A LOT.
Great class in a very relaxed atmosphere with an interesting professor.
Have fun with it!
Yes, especially those interested in traveling to Ghana.
You can't get Twi anywhere else but Harvard.
Great chance to learn languages not offered anywhere.
You will be challenged, but the rewards are 100x fold.
I would recommend this class to anyone who wants to learn about Ghanaian culture, customs and traditions.
Learn a lot, relaxed environment
This is a wonderful course. Charles is a great instructor and will provide you with the tools needed to learn the language.
It is very painless and incerdibly enjoyable because the professor made it so relaxed.
Hands-down one of the best classes I've taken...VERY ENJOYABLE...going to class was a pleasure!
I love it!
This class is a great class to take! I am very glad I chose it to fulfill my requirement.
