This was a fantastic course and Professor Lewis is very open to honest and constructive student feedback.If something is not working, be sure to speak to her,  The assignments are not overly difficult but are quite time consuming, so be sure to give yourself plenty of time to work on them!
The course has a lot of potential, as material itself is very interesting. However, the lectures were very dense and it quickly became difficult to understand which information should be emphasized. Problem sets were fair, but I would warn future students NOT to save larger projects (the group design project and the lab report) for the last minute - they are time consuming!
Prof. Lewis is a great teacher and you learn a lot. The final project takes up a significant amount of time.
this course is really chill until psets, the lab, and the exams sneak up. when those come up, you find that the course has not prepared you adequately to solve the problems, so you have to end up trying to find resources online and at office hours. therefore, it can be very frustrating doing psets and the lab because the lectures just didn't give you enough information to do the questions. otherwise, this course is great! the material is mostly interesting, and Prof Lewis is really nice
good class, cool material
Fun, easy, and rewarding introduction to biomaterials' characteristics and properties
It is still a new course, so there are some kinks to work out, but it is very interesting material...and a lot of it.
I think BE 191 has a lot of potential; the material could have been very interesting and the assignments could have been better designed. Professor Lewis is very nice and it's evident that she's passionate about the material; however, it doesn't necessarily show in her lectures and, as a result, the lectures can be very rushed and flooded with information. The assignments are somewhat harshly graded, though they do cover key concepts. Furthermore, the lab report (a quarter of our final grade) seemed a bit random and unnecessary; I personally felt that the post-lab questions would have sufficed. Overall, it's not the best course out there, though it has a lot of room for improvement and could potentially be really worthwhile if you have a big interest in the material.
It's a pretty good class that will give you a solid understanding on the basics of biomaterials. The class itself isn't too fast paced and is definitely manageable.
This is a great course and Professor Lewis is wonderful. The organization of the course is still being worked on since the course is relatively new, but I'm sure it will only continue to improve. It is a great introduction into a growing field and I would recommend taking it if you get a chance. The work is definitely manageable, but be prepared to read a lot of journal articles and background material for the assignments. Probably the best SEAS course I've taken at Harvard so far.
Not terribly hard on its own, but you will only learn if you invest time outside of class.
This is a great survey course for materials science and Professor Lewis is absolutely wonderful to interact with. Take this course if you want to get a broad overview of materials science that you can explore later in depth. Not much work required but lot of return based on amount of work.
Jennifer Lewis is a great professor. I thought this was an interesting class, with different subject matter than you will find in other classes. Just a heads up, though - this really becomes a materials science class partway through the semester. I would have liked to see more emphasis on the "bio" in biomaterials. Even so, the lab and lecture on 3D printing alone might have been worth taking the class. Pretty wild stuff!
Grading is very nitpicky...
It is cool, but you are just going to memorize things
The class was good. Professor Lewis is great and the material was interesting, but some of the TFs were frustrating to work with, giving useless feedback and randomly taking off points. But it isn't too difficult, and there weren't many assignments
Do not underestimate the lab. There are few assessments that comprise your grade, so be careful.
TAKE THIS COURSE. JLEW IS AMAZING AND YOU WILL LEARN SO MUCH.
A great introduction to materials (not *just* biomaterials) -- I'd recommend it over ES 190 (Materials Science and Engineering) because it covers the same material AND MORE. Prof. Lewis is a great instructor, very engaging and friendly, and the TFs (Ryan and Travis) did a great job explaining things in section, talking over graded homeworks and grading rationales, and getting labs to run smoothly.
This is a great course. Dr. Lewis is a great teacher and the material is very interesting.
Take this class if you want to understand the materials elements of biomedical and bio-engineering devices --- this class gives you a great description of how materials mimic biology, and what considerations you must have for an engineered system to function within the unique environment of the human body
I'm guessing the Q score from this semester won't be great BUT GIVE THE CLASS A CHANCE. This was professor Lewis' first class at Harvard so I'm sure she will take all the comments from this year to heart and make changes. Also, she is just a great person and makes the lectures enjoyable by being so personable. I learned quite a bit in the class and although it became frustrating at times I would recommend you at least try the class. In general, go to Prof Lewis' office hours to learn what is important (she is very effective outside of class in OH). Also, when you get big projects like the long lab report DO NOT wait to start it! It takes a long time but it's a very satisfying product having a professional lab report. Also the design project at the end of the year is great - it was the most in depth design project I've done and I got the chance to really learn a lot about something I care about. So, the class had issues but has HUGE potential and prof Lewis in wonderful.
Hopefully this class would contain a section component next year to review some of the most important points covered in lecture. Prof.Lewis covers a great deal of interesting material in her slides, but students are sometimes confused as to what is important for the homework and the exam. We had very little idea what was going to be on the final, and as there were no midterms prior to this exam, some sort of practice problems would have helped greatly. The final project was highly enjoyable. Overall, it is understandable that there would be some issues with the class since it is the first time it is offered, and I think the class has potential to be good later on.
For biomedical engineers, this course is much better than the alternative (ES190). It is a good introduction to biomaterials and Professor Lewis is a leading expert and really wants you to learn what she has to share.
take it if you are looking for not too much work, but don't expect interesting material.
I would tell future students not to be intimidated by how specific or difficult they think the subject matter is, because I think that it is manageable to learn and very interesting, even with minimal background.
Lectures are very dense and fast, but the material is interesting.
The class is well structured and is a good introduction to material sciences (particularly biomaterials like hydrogels). Although the assignments aren't frequent and aren't difficult, the final exam does require you to synthesize information from the whole course. It's definitely worth taking just to hear from Professor Lewis, who is incredibly knowledgeable and kind.
This course was an excellent overview of materials science with a good dose of biological principles and a solid integration of new and exciting research in the field of biomaterials
This course was a complete gem amidst the engineering requirements. In particular, the lectures were always incredibly chocked full of valuable information and easy to absorb due to fantastic graphics and Dr Lewis' clear explanations. The material of this course is itself also fascinating -- it is one of the few BME courses that actually works in applications to biotech and bio-integrated devices.
Professor Lewis is amazing! She is very enthusiastic about the material and truly cares about her students. The material is fairly difficult, but manageable if you allot the appropriate amount of time. The course is geared to be very back heavy, so expect the workload to increase over the course of the semester.
This is a great course with interesting material. It can be a lot of work and challenging at times.
awesome course (a large part to the tf Nicole). Lewis likes people who are charismatic and speak well over content sometimes so keep that in mind for presentations
Prof. Lewis truly cares about the students in this course and works hard alongside the teaching staff to ensure you have a fair chance to succeed. It is a fun class that taught me a lot!
Professor Lewis is probably the nicest professor I've ever had! The TFs this year were also amazing! The grading is very fair. The problem sets are very manageable. This courseload really picks up picks up after spring break, so watch out! Right after spring break was when the big lab report lab due. And two weeks after that was the exam. And the week after that was the final project. Good thing is that you finish the class pretty early, so you could spend your finals period focusing on your other classes.The lectures can be a bit dry in the beginning however. The lectures are also very compact. But it gets more interesting toward the middle to the end of the semester as bio applications get introduced. The hydrogel lab was cool. I wish there were more labs in the class. The exam was fair, although I wish we were given a practice exam to better prepare for it.
The course was designed in a manner that helped students learn and succeed. The course material was very interesting and well organized, and the teaching staff was highly supportive. Prof. Lewis is a leader in the field of biomaterials and was an inspiring lecturer. It was an honor to take her class.
It's one of the worst classes I have taken at Harvard, and that's after enduring a slew of pretty awful Harvard Engineering classes. Neel is patronizing and rude, and will blame you for doing "poorly" when his own ineptitude and inexperience is to blame. The class is structured in the worst possible way, in which the professor just lectures at you without stopping for ninety minutes. He does not stop to check understanding, and he unreasonably expects students to know things that aren't required for the course, such as organic chemistry. The expectations for the course are not clear, and yet they are unreasonably high. You will work hard and think you are doing well (you might even get one of the highest midterm grades in the class), but you will still not get an A because they will kill you by setting unreasonably high expectations for the final project. Only one A was given in the course, out of an enrollment of around 25. Ludicrous. It is an awful, awful course with a mean and ineffective and patronizing instructor. You will grind your teeth and bang your head and scream because you are forced to do things you were never taught. This class alone has made me reconsider Harvard.
I don't know if the teaching staff will change or not, but think twice about this taking this course. What should have been great subject matter was ruined by lack of preparedness and lecture slides riddled with mistakes.
Take organic chemistry beforehand. Otherwise, this class is going to be very difficult.
This class is the worst class I have ever taken. The material is interesting, and the class structure is actually very conducive to and intro class. However, the professor was unprofessional, unprepared, and unfair. The lab component was nice because it was scheduled on alternating weeks during lecture time, but the report was an unreasonably large assignment and was graded extremely harshly. The professor was known to become irritable with students in office hours, fail to prepare problem sets on time, and in general showed little competence in structuring and executing such a introductory class. This class is an embarrassment to SEAS, and particularly the Biomedical Engineering department. As a concentrator who chose this class because I was genuinely interested in the material, it has become my biggest regret at Harvard. I get to choose two elective classes in my field, and I wasted one on this.
This course was effective in introducing some of the material initially described, but we didn't get to everything on the syllabus. Professor Joshi is brilliant and makes  genuine effort to make sure his students understand the material well. That said, some of the lectures were a bit dry. I think, though, this has more to do with the material than the lecturer.
The material is excellent and very interesting. I really liked working on the final projects and received great feedback from the TFs and professor on how to approach our design proposals. I think what could be improved are more timely feedback from the staff on turned-in assignments and clarification on expectations for the lab write up. I also wish we had a review session in order to prepare for the exam because we did not know what to expect.
This is a very hard course.
Please do not take this course. It is the worst course you will ever take, and I urge you to save yourself and your sanity. You will learn nothing, despite dedicating immense amounts of time and undergoing an incredible amount of stress. Joshi allowed students to make up half the points you lost on the final exam by spending 15 minutes with him for every 20% lost. In my meeting, he was visibly annoyed and rude to me, and one of my classmates said that during the meeting Joshi yelled at him and told him to leave his office. Joshi repeatedly missed meetings with his students that were set up outside of class to talk about assignments. This course will not teach you anything and leave you upset, angry, and frustrated.
Recommending mostly because it's still a requirement AND the material is important to know. But also this class is still clearly developing. So maybe wait a year.
Unless they reorganize the course, you might want to stay away. The actual material and teaching staff are awesome, but you're going to get slammed at the end of the semester with a bunch of assignments that would be easily manageable if they all didn't overlap.
If the course is taught by Neel Joshi, do not take it! He dropped psets and gives assignments and tests that do not at all coincide with the concepts in class. He also doesnt teach the concepts and lectures at you instead of to you.
I think with some due restructuring this course is valuable as a (hard-core, technical, and chem-heavy) introduction to material considerations involved in biomedical designs. Includes in-lab hydrogel fabrication and testing, and a highly-involved final lab report (ACS journal style) and design proposal (group project/presentation).
It's accessible, the material is very interesting, the teaching is good
This course was very harshly graded, and was not structured to help students succeed. All of the large assignments were due within a span of three weeks, making it extremely difficult to succeed in all of them. The large assignments were graded extremely harshly and there was no way to get feedback as you progressed through the course, which meant that final grades were a surprise and did not feel like a reflection of the work we put into the course.
Though the material is interesting and important, Professor Joshi has a tough time conveying the material in an engaging way that makes you actually learn. I feel like his expectation for what you should've learned vs. his presentations on how to learn it were very out of sync. There is a lot of material thrown at you and he expects you to understand on a very thorough level, especially in terms of organic chemistry material.
This was Professor Joshi's first time teaching the course, so it was somewhat disorganized, especially after spring break. The material is very interesting, but lectures can be slightly mundane because of a heavy reliance on powerpoint. Problem sets are interesting and do a good job of exposing students to new material. However, the assignments did not do a very good job of preparing students for the exam. Labs are interesting and the design project at the end gives student the opportunity to explore an interesting topic more in depth.
