I highly recommend this course. It demonstrates engineering and clinical applications and provided me with an understanding of how biology and physics combine with engineering in a powerful and meaningful way. Definitely take this class - I recommend taking it after PS12b/equivalent E&M class.
BE128 is a stellar introduction to biomedical imaging from a quantitative perspective, and I am very grateful that it is now a course option. As a bioengineering student, it was a really excellent combination of quantitative engineering design problems coupled with physiologically and biologically relevant scenarios. On top of this, Linsey is a wonderful professor, and you will learn a lot from her.
Definitely a good choice! It is an easy one yet you still learn a lot after a semester.If you are a biology major, this course will help you understand why certain papers choose this imaging technique or that technique.This course will help you learn basic MATlab. If you also take other courses that use MATlab, you will have a strong semester with MatLab. Sometimes I use MATLab every day, which is good for you to pick up this tool.
Great course and I definitely recommend it for students to take as an elective. A lot of the material was very new to me, and at times confusing, but Dr. Moyer was always wiling to help and answer any questions. I really enjoyed the class.
This is my absolute favorite class at Harvard so far! I decided to take this class mainly because I knew nothing about imaging, and the material seemed really interactive and interesting, and I could not be more happy with this class. Linsey is my favorite professor ever, and she makes this class SO well-organized and fun. You'll learn so much and you get to do some really awesome labs as part of the class as well! Everything in this class is really reasonable as well - the psets, exams, and final were all fair. I could not recommend this class more! If you're BME, and even if you're not BME, take this class! You won't regret it. From coming in with no background in imaging, this class inspired me to do my independent project/senior thesis in imaging so this class really helped me find a new passion for biomedical imaging. Could not recommend more!
This is a very cool class. You get to use all these imaging modalities that you might not even have known existed here, such as micro-CT, SEM, MRI, Ultrasound. As a BE concentrator, you could probably find some use in some of these technology to help with lab, projects etc. The class is well taught - you probably know Linsey as the BE/BME ADUS and already know how great she is. The labs are during class and is when you take "field trips" to where each of the imaging modalities are kept to learn from the experts! The lab reports are meant to help you synthesize what you learned in the lab. The problem sets give you practice in solving problems one might actually encounter or need to consider when using these modalities, and the exams are fair if you study.
Solidly good BME elective. Linsey is great, and the class is interesting. Not too much work, with a lot of awesome hands-on experience with the fancy equipment. Fun final project where you get to actually image anything you want!
This class is great if you are looking for a broad introduction to biomedical imaging modalities. If you are specifically interested in only one or two, and want a deep understanding of it, it would be better to take a more specialized course because since this course covers a lot of ground, it doesn't have time to go into too much detail.
