The lab component of the course is a LOT of work, especially toward the end, when you are responsible for designing your own experiment. For the rest of the class, though, the work is consistent but definitely do-able. Expect to learn to think critically about papers and to question procedures and results that come from research. Also expect to become much more knowledgeable about current research techniques and demands. Be ready to give presentations in class about papers and/or project proposals.
Excellent course. Prof. Mooney is a great professor and you will learn a lot from this course
Prof Mooney is an awesome teacher, learning feels organic and mature. The lab component of the class is a lot of work, but is very rewarding and prepares you well for an internship or job in tissue engineering. the class is mostly project based, so some weeks are a lot more work than others, but the week to week work is minimal and overall the class is definitely more manageable than other es course.
The class can be demanding at times, and there is usually always something due, but it is manageable, interesting, and rewarding.
This is a great course, and although it is not exceptionally difficut, it is very time consuming.  Choose wisely during the beginning of the semester whether to do the lab or the proposal.  The lab requires a lot of extra hours during the week, but is less intense during the final weeks of the semester, while the proposal is more spread out work-wise but gets intense at the end.  Make sure to do the journal club responses carefully and thoroughly because it will really help you n preparing your own journal club presentation and for the exams.
The course is really interesting and you learn a lot of fascinating material. However, it is difficult to know how well you understand the material because there are no practice problems to work on.
This course will give you the opportunity to explore Tissue Engineering with one of the leaders of the field. This has been among my favorite classes at Harvard, especially because of its incorporation of recent research in this area.
The journal clubs are really interesting to read. Doing the proposal is very worthwhile and it's interesting to see how much you learn and how much you learn about your field and how much your proposal over the course of the semester. Working with two other people is very worthwhile and you learn a lot when bouncing ideas off each other.
Be prepared to put in time, not just for the assignments, but also to approach issues in a new way (more like a lab/grad school than a regular class)
The material presented in the course is very exciting, and Mooney is an awesome instructor. I took the course mainly to gain experience in the lab and gain biological intuition. I've got what I came for, but often times it felt meaningless.
This is a good chance to get to know a professor well and have some fun with lab work!
This course is probably the best class ive taken at Harvard. Mooney is a very effective lecturer and while he doesnt stand for nonsense hes very good at pinpointing the missing link in your understanding. The format of this class really made me interact with thr whoe world Of tissue engineering instead of just the maetrial presented in class
this is a great class, at least when Prof. Mooney is teaching it.  The material is interesting and not too difficult, but there is a lot of work. Don't underestimate the lab component - we ran often ran late, had to repeat experiments, and you will have to come in for a short period of time on some days to maintain the cells. From the journal club assignments, lab/proposal presentations, and the midterms, you really come out of the class with skills as well as the knowledge
This is an excellent course. Dave Mooney is a FANTASTIC professor, being extremely knowledgable and helpful with feedback. The lab component is very demanding, but other than that there is not too much of a workload.
Lab 1 can take up about 6 hours a week. Lab 2, when you get to design your own experiments, can take much, much more time due to troubleshooting problems that inherently arise. However, this is all part of research and not meant to deter you from the lab component but just to give you an approximation of the time commitment. You get out what you put in. I came out learning many new skills and how to write good lab reports. There are no problem sets but there are usually two papers to read each week and the responses can take a lot of time if you're not familiar with the topic. However, this teaches you to be fluent in many different sub-categories of tissue engineering. One of the best things I learned was to think very critically and be skeptical about published work and think about how they can be improved.
it a lot of time but very worth it. i'd strongly suggest you take you but realize it should be one your main focus.
Expect to spend a lot of time on the laboratory component. It is very helpful for people who want to know what it's like to work in a lab, but it required a lot of late nights and repeated experiments in order to complete it.
Be ready to spend a lot of time, especially if you take the lab component, but it will be very worth it!
This course is a good introduction to Tissue Engineering because it combines both lecture-style learning with journal clubs to relate the material to current work in the field. This is a joint graduate and undergraduate class.
This is a great introduction to the challenges and successes of tissue engineering.  I think it is a course where you get as much out of it as you put into it, so if you want to really learn something, then I would suggest that you read all the readings.  However, I do think that it may be better to take the course as an upper classmen. As a sophomore, i felt like I just did not have enough previous exposure to reading scientific articles, which made the readings very time consuming.  I also would strongly advise undergrads to take the lab component if you have no previous tissue engineering knowledge.  It was very hard for me to design a grant proposal given that I did not even understand the chemistry of hydrogels and other basic TE principles.
This is a very intensive course, and there is not as much guidance about the specific expectations. However, it is a worthwhile experience that is directly applicable to thinking like someone in this field.
Great class but not going to dive in depth on any one issue but rather give a broad overview of tissue engineering strategies and challenges. Will learn a lot from journal clubs and they go well with the class topic. The final proposal is a lot of work so make sure to start early.
Coursework doesn't seem like much, but there is little guidance on what is expected, or what you get wrong with feedback.
I think this course is a really excellent introduction to the state of the bioengineering field as it relates to tissues. The material is very manageable, as is the workload. The last couple of weeks can get a little heavy as final reports and presentations are due, but the course as a whole is very fair. It was more biologically focused than I anticipated, but this was not necessarily a negative thing. Definitely take this course if you're considering any kind of research in tissue engineering.
great, super relevant material. mooney is very nice but is very unknown and arbitrary in grading. no idea what rubrics are and the midterms are just a shot in the dark sometimes
It's a pretty large time commitment between the lab, lecture, and journal clubs, so make sure you stay on top of everything. If you do choose to do the lab, be prepared to put in a number of hours for the second lab.
Very interesting material, and you will gain valuable new skills from both the journal clubs and the lab.
Professor Mooney makes this class worth it. Don't do the lab unless they change the structure. The exams are pretty annoying but try and study as much as you can and hope for the best.
This class really grew on me, and ended up becoming one of my favorite courses in the department. It really made me feel like a bioengineer and a scientist, since we had the chance to develop and run our own experiments while reading journals and literature extensively.
This class is great for challenging yourself and gaining lab experience due to the independent style of this class.
The material in this class is really interesting, and it's really cool to have the chance to create your own experiment.
Material was difficult and for such a large class they should add a section component. Journal club presentations were extremely stressful (like 15 hours spent on preparing this presentation).Exams were not too bad but we also never got our test scores back, so not sure. There is no final, only two midterms, and either a lab report or a proposal. Mooney will tell you whether you should do the lab component of the course or the proposal component depending on your prior lab experience.The lectures are really really really interesting. Mooney is an effective lecturer and the lectures always include case studies of products on the market (e.g. skin grafts) or a bit of business behind TE ventures, and makes it much more applicable. I wish Mooney lectured more slowly and got rid of presentations so he would have time to do so. The journal club and lab presentations were boring and no one really paid attention.I would suggest having worked in a lab before as it would greatly help you with the lab/lab report but also help you in doing the journal clubs. I would also recommend taking fluids because we did a LOT with diffusion, and you would understand a lot more if you have taken fluids.
This is a great class, but definitely a difficult one. Dr. Mooney is extremely intelligent and expects a lot out of students, but teaches and presents material very well. Be prepared to put in quite a bit of work at the end of the semester when the proposal is due (or if you do the lab part, when the presentation is due).
The lab component is cool but it requires a lot of time.  The course in general presents a lot of interesting material but it can be difficult to synthesize and interpret for exams. The journal clubs can be monotonous but they provide good practice with regards to reading and analyzing scientific papers and gaining background in the field.
This is a fair class that you can succeed in by simply showing up, studying  for exams, and trying.
This class is interesting but difficult.  If you do the lab portion you will end up spending a lot of time in the lab towards the end of the semester.
Professor Mooney is great and this is a great class to learn a lot about tissue engineering. The proposal was a very do-able and good experience to learn about experimental design, controls, and higher level academic science thinking. Class could have been more organizing because we cover a lot of material and many of the main points get lost in the overwhelming number of lecture slides. Make sure you attend every class and note what Mooney says is most important because exams test much more of your main concept understanding (i.e. limitation of certain approaches) rather than fine details. Overall great class introduction to tissue engineering.
This course was fascinating if you are interested in tissue engineering. Mooney is a brilliant professor and provides a great overview of current bioengineering shortcomings and developments. Definitely recommend for bioengineering concentrators. You will develop skills to analyze biological papers in depth and learn how to write a NIH grant proposal or perform tissue culture in the lab depending on which track you pick for this course.
It's a great class to gain exposure to tissue engineering. Dr. Mooney is great and you will get a nice, comprehensive overview of the field, in addition to getting much better at reading and analyzing scientific papers if you don't have experience doing so. There can be a good amount of work that can sneak up on you, so be careful to stay on top of this and not underestimate the time commitment that the class requires to do well.
BE125 is definitely an amazing courseit's probably one of the better courses that I've taken under SEAS since coming here. I might not call it a life-changing course, but I did find that the course gave me a lot of skills and knowledge that I've been unable to obtain in a lot of other courses here. For instance, you get really good at understanding how to present research and the level of specificity and understanding truly required to talk about research. And you definitely gain a very concrete understanding of tissue engineering. I did find the journal clubs sometimes tedious and nebulous to do, and the workload definitely began light but spiked late February. I came into this course thinking it'd be a lot easier than most of my other engineering courses (because you don't have problem sets), but I'd caution against thinking that way. This course requires time and effort to do well and really understand the material, but if you really give it your all, you'll like come out really appreciating the material.
Some weeks, lab takes an hour.  Other weeks, lab takes 6 hours outside of the 4 hour allotted lab time.  Beware.  Otherwise, the content in the class is interesting and relevant
