The work in the class was very front-loaded, which the teaching staff stressed from the start. They didn't tell us exactly how heavy it would be, and psets ended up taking over 20 hours each (there are only 4) and count for a very large percentage of the grade. The material was taught at an extremely fast pace, and Professor Parker was very reluctant to slow down even when students asked him to. The project is not too difficult (and interesting) and the TFs were extremely helpful. Overall, it is a required course for bioengineers, but unless it is completely restructured, you need to make sure you have enough time in your schedule to commit over 20 hours a week for the first 2 months of the semester.
This year was an anomaly since Prof. Parker taught it. Lectures were not particularly engaging (simply regurgitation from the textbook), so you couldn't learn much. Homeworks were unbearable - there were 4 homeworks, each took 30+ hours to complete (with the exception of the last one). The final project is manageable to pretty annoying to do. The course is heavily influenced by the professor (as all courses). In this case, Prof. Parker wanted very specific fonts/ diagrams on his project powerpoints, very specific language on the exams, etc. Overall the course was poorly taught, though I did learn from the amazing Tf- Alex Hyde. He is amazing and is more helpful and knowledgeable than the professor (I would argue) regarding signals + systems. In the future, Prof. Parker isn't teaching the course. One last thing - keep in mind this course is actually a math course/ engineering course with physiology sprinkled in. Don't take as an elective. Only take if you need to (for BME)
This is a class you have to take, and you won't regret it when you're done.
Although the final project for this course was a great opportunity to work in teams to solve a signals and systems problem in the world around us, I cannot in good faith recommend this course if Prof. Parker continues to teach it. It is a concentration requirement, so it's not like you have much of a choice, but I thought it was going to be a much more well-taught course that this. I felt extremely unprepared to complete the  problem sets that could take 40-50 hours to complete even with the help of the (amazing) TFs.
This class is extremely difficult and not a fun experience overall. Make sure to find a group of other students to work with, and do all the readings as this will be the only way to survive the course. Go to every office hours possible, and get ready to commit over 20 hours a week to this course. This course is very challenging, but by working in groups and consulting the teaching fellows, you can get through it.
This class is EXTREMELY difficult, not because of the material, but because you feel like you are battling the course. Assignments are poorly organized and excessively difficult, exams are not clear/don't connect to problem sets, lectures are too fast/incomprehensible, and course expectations are not made clear at the start of the course.
Well, I don't think this is a class that one would take for fun. It's a concentration requirement, so good luck! It's likely to get better, though since Maurice Smith might be teaching it after this year.
Better than ES 53
Honestly, any comments I make here are irrelevant, since Professor Smith will be teaching it next year instead of Professor Parker. Nevertheless, I still would like to say that this class had super interesting material, so I'd definitely suggest trying to understand the concepts from the get-go because it makes applying the math a lot easier and because the concepts are super cool. Definitely don't go in expecting this to be a biology class because signals and systems is ALL MATH. Prep yourself with some knowledge of differential equations and basic algebraic properties/integration. And also, I hope that you don't have to do 40+ hour problem sets...
very well organized, difficult material at first but emphasis on contextualizing the concepts helps with understanding
I hope that this course gets a COMPLETE OVERHAUL. Unfortunately, it is a requirement for BME concentrators, so there's no getting out of it. All I could advise is to be wary of other difficult classes you may be taking, because this one will take you a heck of a lot of time per week. (We're talking 25-35 hour psets). Pray that a different professor teaches it next year, and that they get a section component. The only thing that saved me this year was that the TFs were amazing.
I'm sorry if this course is one of your concentration requirements and you have to take this. DO NOT take this course as an elective or if you have any other choice.
This course probably changes a lot based on who's teaching it.  Some weeks I could spend 40+ hours working on a problem set, and other weeks I wouldn't have to do anything.  The project was a good learning experience, though stressful at times, and feedback wasn't always constructive.  Overall, I think I learned a lot, but also lost some of my sanity
The workload is incredibly heavy for a disproportionate payoff. Nearly all of the material is covered in the first 5 weeks, and the rest of the class is guest lectures- which were interesting but could have been spaced out between covering new chapters. Presentation of new materials basically involved copying examples off of a pre-written sheet, and trying to teach yourself from the book later. Basically requires teamwork on Psets, which will still take you 40+ hours to do. Expect inconsistent feedback, a constantly changing syllabus, and a massive lack of sleep.In talking to students who took it in previous semesters, this class was much more reasonable. Here's to hoping it goes back to that.
I know this is a concentration requirement, so you don't have much choice. We relied heavily on the textbook and Parker's lectures were not particularly helpful (he just sped through the material and expected you to write everything down and understand it right away). We covered A LOT of material, but that doesn't mean you learn a log of material. I did very well on psets and exams, but I still don't feel like I will have retained much of the information. Additionally, Parker is very intimidating, but he clearly knows the material backwards and forwards.
I think the student experience on this class varies year-to-year depending on how the professor structures the assignments and lectures.  This year, we were assigned problem sets that took 45-50 hours apiece and were completely unmanageable.  However, the course was top-heavy and definitely improved over the course of the semester; our final two problem sets were much more reasonable (~10-15 hours), and the exams were appropriately structured to test a core conceptual understanding.  I would highly recommend attending office hours every week and taking the time to practice and study the textbook on your own before exams.  The material is very enjoyable and this is the first engineering course where I felt empowered to apply what I had learned in class to genuine engineering problems.
This class was torture at the beginning of the year. I wasn't sleeping. I was falling behind in all my other classes. I spent every day working on the homework assignments which took a minimum of 40 hours. The lectures were not helpful in learning the material. The TFs really did try to help out as much as they could.The final project and guest lecture time was slightly better in terms of hours per week, but it was equally as frustrating because no concrete feedback was ever given.
You have to take this course as a BE concentrator, which is unfortunate. It was unnecessarily difficult and tedious, and Professor Parker is a bit abrasive in his interactions with students. It is doable in the end and the final project does feel rewarding, but it is a pain to go through.
While I have faith in the possibility that this course will improve in the future due to the fact that our current professor will not be teaching it, I see no reason to recommend this intensive signals course to anyone who is not a BME concentrator
I'll start by saying that I actually got a lot out of this course. That said, it was a fairly miserable process. Professor Parker's lectures mainly involved him running quickly over material that needed much more detail to be properly understood. As a result, lectures that were not reviews of some kind had very little value, and instead we had to rely on our textbook to actually grasp any of the material covered. The problem sets were very intensive, so be sure to give yourself enough time for them. The people who were consistently doing well on them were spending easily above 25 hours on each. Wouldn't recommend taking the course if you don't have to. Despite all this, though, I've definitely come out with a very strong grasp on the class's main concepts. Could be made a lot better if the lectures were improved, though.
I'm sure that reviews of this course will fluctuate with the professor in charge, so make sure to look into whether Dr. Parker, Dr. Smith, or anyone else is teaching the course before weighing a particular semester's reviews.
please please don't take this class with Kit Parker. he WILL make your life a living hell. the course material is not difficult but Kit Parker WILL make it unnecessarily difficult. the stuff you learn are actually useful, but Kit Parker WILL make it confusing and seem useless.
For one, the "design project" is not really a design project at all. The assignment is to take a theoretical, arbitrary unstable system and stabilize it with very arbitrary constraints - to many, it seemed like a way for the bioengineering program to satisfy the ABET accreditation's requirement for engineering courses to have "design projects." I, along with many, do not feel better equipped to become an engineer in the real-world after going through this project or course.

Secondly, while the course material is interesting, it barely scrapes the surface for useful information - we learn how to stabilize systems simply by using proportional feedback, but there is a wealth of information that is not touched upon (e.g. PID controllers, lead/lag compensators, etc.).

Thirdly, the course is disorganized - the notes used for lecture were outdated and contained mistakes that have not been corrected for several years. The head TF was not helpful at office hours. Review notes by TFs contained mistakes. Support material for exams were missing - for example, three practice exams were supplied for the final, but only one of them, way back from 2007, had solutions.

Unfortunately, this is one of the requirements for BME/bioengineering, and you will have to take it in order to complete the degree. If you want to have a say in your education, you can suggest to SEAS/course staff to make improvements in the aforementioned areas.
You pretty much have to take this class. Bite the bullet and work with your classmates and TF's. Its a bit hectic without real sections, but the teaching staff is always there to help you with the material.
The material covered by this class is awesome, but there aren't many resources for actually figuring out what's going on beyond the surface level.
This course is easier than ES 53, which is not really needed as a prerequisite. You should however has taken linear algebra because the course is all about linear algebra and solving equations. It is mostly a math course, with some physics and even less biology. Overall totally do-able and enjoyable.
Good class with cool material. If in the beginning you have no idea what's going on, don't worry that's normal. Things start clicking around week 3.
Control theory is interesting, and while Professor Merfeld seems to be very enthusiastic about the subject, I do not think he was very good at relaying the knowledge he knows to his students. After you understand a concept, it actually seems pretty simple, but the class makes the process to understanding the concept incredibly muddled and difficult.
BE110 is a necessary challenge for bioengineers -- don't take this otherwise. The class is taught in a fairly non straightforward manner, and it felt as though we superficially learned a lot of the material without any deep intuition of what we were doing.
DIFFICULT, but not because it has to be... the material itself is interesting, but the course is taught in a way that overcomplicates concepts and makes it difficult to understand which are important and which are simply details.
The material covered in this class is useful, but the way the professor teaches it isn't. You need to have a good teaching staff in order to succeed in this class because the professor doesn't cover the material needed to do well on psets or on tests. Class lectures are also incredibly dull - it's hard to stay awake.
This class was pretty awful, although not terribly difficult. This is actually quite a shame, as it is a required course for bioengineering and covers a topic many students would genuinely enjoy if the professor were better. The material was interesting but lectures were tedious and not helpful. The problem sets had little to do with lecture material, and the professor plainly didn't care about the class so it was never clear to either the students or the course staff what we were expected to know. All of the readings were years old so they often didn't relate to what was being taught this year and a few were littered with crucial typos. Although the head TF was very nice, her section was also not very helpful. The two midterms were easy but 35% of the final covered information we were explicitly told in lecture was "just for context" and that we were not responsible for. Quite frankly, it seems after nine years the professor is no longer interested in teaching this class and the department should find someone else to teach it.
Go to lecture and afterward, go over the material on your own, learn on your own first then come to class.
This class is a basic systems class with some physiological applications. I think it is well designed for a biomedical engineering student.
While the material is challenging, if you go to all the lectures, pay attention in class, and read the textbook, you will find that the class is doable. The professor is very good at lecturing and presenting the material in a coherent and clear manner that is easy to follow.
While the material itself is not extremely difficult, the course staff seems to range from disinterested to disorganized, making the overall experience very frustrating.  However, seeing as it's a concentration requirement for the SB in bioengineering, you may have no choice but to take it anyway.
If your bioengineering you have to take it so that's that. The material is good if you like the stuff, but the class leaves a lot to be desired.
Don't take this class unless you're required to. Merfeld is really nice, but he's an awful teacher.
Okay, I'm going to try to make this section as constructive as possible but it might be hard. First off, I'll say that in terms of what you're actually required to know, the class is not difficult. The problem is, a lot of material is thrown at you but almost none of it is taught well so the class seems difficult and daunting before psets/exams because you have to essentially learn everything that you need to know (which isn't actually that bad, if you have good TFs - but that's not the point of a class). The biggest issue I had with the class, was that it felt like "plug and chug" with little understanding or actual learning required - and most of the time a question was asked about what something meant the only answer we got was either "don't worry about it", or we would get half an explanation followed but "just trust it". The course sounds cool and the material would actually be interesting material IF you have to actually learn and learn how/when it is used. To be honest, all the time I spent on this course felt like I was wasting my time because I didn't feel I was getting anything out of it. I think I can honestly say that this is the worst class I've taken at Harvard so far and I really hope it changes in the future, because it does have great potential. Professor Merfeld is a very nice and friendly person but I'm not sure he is the right person to be teaching this course anymore, I think it needs someone who is more excited by the material and wants to challenge their students but provide them with knowledge that will last. In the very least, I think this course should not be a course requirement.
This course may seem intimidating at first, but the assignments and exams are very fair. The course is taught at a higher level than is actually expected of you. The TFs for this course are also a great resource if you feel that you are overwhelmed by the material.
The section component and office hours are life-saving. Utilize them.
Only take it if your concentration requires it.
This course is a good follow-up to other signals and systems courses like ES156 or ES125. Whether or not you've had these courses, the material you learn will still be very useful, but I've found reinforcement of the material through other courses to be very useful.  If you have taken ES53 in the past, do not feel pressured to immediately follow up with this course.  This is purely a mathematics course that takes some time to discuss applications to physiological systems.
For students who are interested in combining interests in biology, engineering, and mathematics, this course serves as a good introduction to mathematical techniques that are likely to pop up over and over again. Moreover, this class serves as a light introduction to biological systems modeling and analysis.
Don't fret about this class. One of the better taught and cohesive engineering classes that you will take. You won't be running around trying to find out what in the world is going on. The psets and tests are very, very fair and the textbook is an excellent tool for learning what is discussed in class. Also, Prof. Merfeld is great. Lectures are boring, but really, that's it.
This is much more of a math class than a bioengineering class.
This class has a lot of potential that isn't being realized.  The applications, which are easily the most interesting part of the course, are not as much of a focus as they should be made. The lectures are not useful at all, and its very difficult to know how to approach the problem solving without spending a lot of time in office hours.
It's required for BME so you have no choice. Be prepared to be confused about the mathematics all the way though. This course seemed like a survey course that did not go into depth.
This is a required course for BME, and its interesting, but it doesn't have much application-related content. Not bad as far as courses go, but the lectures are fairly dull
You have to take it for BME, and its not the worst of the requirements. I would say go to as many TF sections or office hours as you can; that makes such a difference in understanding of the material and performance on assessments.
Wasn't well organized though
i really liked this class - shows you real world applications and real use of the physics and math that is tedious to learn. teaching staff is great and super helpful if you're willing to ask for some guidance. definitely suggest at least skimming the readings and trying psets on your own before working with a group.
You will get a lot out of this class when you invest the time! Make sure you learn the math that you need to, and talk to Professor Merfeld outside of class if you have the chance.
You have to learn the material yourself. ES125 does a better job of actually teaching mechanical systems. The applications to physiology are minimal at best.
Take it if you have to. The material is interesting, but I cannot see why someone who wasn't biomed would take it.
A very interesting class that teaches real world applications of systems control.
This class isn't too bad in terms of time/difficulty. While the class says it is a physiological systems class, the "systems" part definitely comes before the "physiological", meaning that Prof. Merfeld will go into great lengths explaining the math and derivations behind the concepts you'll be learning, rather than connecting the material to biological applications. For work, really only the first, maybe two, psets are actually hard, the rest are pretty straightforward. The hardest part of the exams weren't exactly the material, but rather manipulating the algebra to get the equation in a form you could work in. Overall, not too bad of a class, make sure you to to TF's office hours to do the psets/labs, as they will save you a lot of time. Also, get the textbook, as I found their explanations for things better than Merfeld's.
BE 110 is essentially a system dynamics course (aka lots of math and not as much biological/physiological systems analysis). That being said, I think the course could be much better organized. We didn't have teaching fellows for the course until a few weeks into the semester and the assignments seemed to be randomly assigned and due; on the last day of classes, we had 4 assignments due (a lab, optional problem set, presentation, and final project report) which was really stressful and crazy. Section, which was held in year's previous, would have definitely been helpful as there is not a strong focus on problem solving in lecture, making it difficult to do the problem sets without spending a significant amount of time at office hours. The TFs this year were helpful! I would have liked to have more exam preparation materials to study from; we were given 3 practice finals, but only one of them had solutions.
This class is okay if you have to take it for BME. Lectures are very boring and not helpful. The tests and psets are not too hard though. Grading on tests in unfair and mistakes in online course content and grading will not be fixed, but instead you will be blamed for the errors.
Well, BME, you have to take this class, and for that I am sorry. Overall, it's an okay class, but it could be so much better.
BE110 is a lot less of a time commitment than ES53.  Unfortunately though, this course does not deal much with physiology at all.
The class is well organized and the tfs and professor are helpful. The workload is manageable but challenging.
It is a hard and interesting course. Daniel is a very good professor and is opened to questions and interactions.
This class was a great introduction to system dynamics. Although it's now considered a "biomedical engineering" course, the basic concepts are useful for all engineers regardless of your field. In fact, the majority of the examples involve mechanical and electrical systems. It was exactly what I expected from an engineering class: challenging but doable, theoretical but relevant.
The teaching staff is sooo nice about the grading.  They literally want everyone to get an A.
required class, the material is worth learning in depth, but the pace of the class is such that only a superficial overview is done. Moreover, there are questions on the exams that are not covered in the handouts or the homeworks, and the class could have a stronger connection to the material in the book. Far too few practice problems.
This is not a physiology class, it's a math class. You'll learn some interesting tricks, but I didn't come away with a strong intuition for how physiological systems are actually modelled or manipulated. The class is much more interested in manipulating mathematical models than manipulating physiological systems. Problem sets/exams were quite easy this year (that can always change though), but I didn't feel like I really had any deep idea what was going onI just knew how to do a few procedures.
This was an fun class with somewhat interesting implications, but I didn't feel that I came out of it with anything truly profound.
It's pretty boring to be honest, but it's straightforward if you do the homework. No surprises on the exams, which is really fair.
If you wanna know about systems, this is the class for you. Just remember that while it's called "physiological systems analysis," it's systems first, physiology second. It's mainly just a math class. But you DO learn some cool stuff about how some of your systems--like occulomotor and vestibuar--work on an even more quantitative level than 53.
Very good class to learn systems analysis!
This class isn't as big of a time commitment as some other ES classes, but it still needs work and time. Don't read the comments and think that this is gonna be your easy class for the semester. It won't be your hardest class, but you still need to put the work in.
It's a mathy class. The material is really interesting because you're learning how to take a system in the abstract or a physiological system and change the properties of its response to an input by understanding its properties in different domains, including ones that don't deal with time. Having taken differential equations and linear algebra would definitely be a plus. I'd recommend the class. It's interesting, and the tests are pretty straightforward if you pay attention and seek to understand what's going on in class.
You need a strong base in calculus and physics.
The lecture style did not work for me and I ended up learning most of the material from doing problem sets. You'll find it helpful if you have background with differential equations (AM105) and some basic physics (mechanics and circuits).
Very amusing and useful class for all engineers, yet the teaching method is a bit dry. If you are interested in engineering design (from biomedical devices to automobiles or buildings) take this class. A genuine interest on the student's side will encounter very rich material and an engaging professor. However, you must be learning actively; otherwise this course will become tedious and hard.
the work is a lot in the beginning, but then it gets better
Brush up on your basic math skills before taking this course, the concepts are not enormously difficult, but most of the points you'll lose are from math mistakes.
Dr. Merfeld gets a little distracted and tangential sometimes. Please do not intentionally encourage this behavior, because lectures often only makes sense in their entirety -- there's often a crucial example or explanation that's given rather later on and suddenly the last few minutes of frantic note-taking make sense.
