Read the papers over the weekend so that you actually have time to have a productive discussion for the Tuesday sections with the TAs (though I hope they get rid of the Tuesday sections, I found them to be a big waste of time). If you wait until Monday night to read the papers, you will be screwed.
This course is challenging and time-consuming but ultimately very rewarding. I feel more confident in my ability to read papers.
The experience from BBS230 depends on how much effort you put into it. Don't waste this opportunity and read the papers before class.
It's a lot of time sitting around talking about papers, but the discussions can be really interesting.
This course really depends on what section leaders you get.
This class is useful for obtaining the skills to read and analyze papers thoroughly. The papers are not always the most interesting ones but it is more about the skills obtained. There is a TA and a faculty section each week. The faculty section is very insightful but the TA section is variable depending on the level of effort of your classmates and TAs since this section is not graded.
Put time and effort into this course and take the writing assignments seriously.
You learn a lot, but this class requries a lot of time. Anyways, it is required so there is nothing you can do.
This class provides a valuable in depth look at how scientists evaluate the main currency of our field - publications.
Great in learning how to analyze literature and enjoyable to really dissect some prominent literature, but they chose a lot of bad examples, which got old after a while
The class was great, you will learn a lot and it's fun to discuss science with faculty members because they are really interested in what we think when we interpret published science.
Think hard.Prepare before each section.
It might feel painful at first, but it's a good class. Could be awesome if the selection of papers was more broad.
It would be helpful for your future research.
Best paper analysis course I can imagine - though it will make you much more cynical (or at least skeptical) about the literature as a whole (as you really should be).
Required, but don't hate on it because of that. If you put in the time and thought, you WILL get so much out of it. E.g., take time to read reviews on the field before and after the papers to be discussed. ...and plan on being creative in your alternative approach!
It is a challenging course in a few regards but fun too because of everything you get to learn every week. The workload is a bit on the higher side considering the hours spent in and outside class but in the end the course will definitely make one appreciate its importance and value towards graduate students.
It can be fun!
This course is the most useful course for first year PhDs. It requires understanding of concepts and encourages you to participate and discuss results with your peers.
Read papers. It's like vitamins for your brain.
Helps you develop skills to critically apraise literature in a discussion-based manner, which was very effective; also exposes you to a wide variety of literature which is very useful in the future when reading these papers
It's a pretty big time commitment but quite valuable. I expected this class to be some sort of "how to read papers" pedantry, but in fact, it proved to be a deep dissection of methods and historical context of a lot of important biology, and was engaging every week.
Please read the papers for Tuesday section and actually come prepared. You don't have to spend 10 hours on each paper, but it's a good idea to try and understand the methods.
Take the Tuesday section seriously. I think it is a good outlet to express questions or concerns that will make the Thursday section better.
It isn't necessary to understand every tiny detail of the paper and its method.  Don't be afraid to ask questions or try to clear up points of confusion in the faculty session--it is a valid way to participate in the discussion.
Very useful and helps develop skills you'll definitely need as a scientist
Don't stress out about it. Things will be okay.
Great way to learn to challenge the literature.
It's a good class, and you can get as little or as much out of it as you want, depending on what you put in
anyone who had prior research experience should not be mandated to take this course
This course is all dependent on the faculty that you have and the students who are in your class.
This class teaches you how to read scientific papers critically and talk about science effectively with colleagues.  Both of which are incredibly important skills for a scientist.
Budget tons and tons of time.
Be thorough in your preparation, it is worth it.
It is a great class to develop skills to better analyze and interpret research articles in biology. It gives you the toolbox with which one can focus more on important aspects of analyzing articles.
Read any reviews that include the paper and were released around when the paper was published because they will be helpful in aiding you to understand the paper.
Read reviews related to the paper assigned in addition to the paper itself.
I would tell them to not be intimidated by the instructor sessions.
To read a lot of background and discuss well with classmates before attending either of the sections. Be prepared to ask questions.
It is challenging and frustrating when you aren't interested in the paper topic, but you learn a lot about different parts of biology and become A LOT better at reading papers and interpreting data.
This is a required course for the BBS program, and is useful in advancing your ability to read the biological literature critically. I think that what you take away from the course is proportional to the amount of effort you put in. Read the papers, look briefly at background material, reviews and accompanying comments and think about the limitations of the paper, techniques and study design if you'd like to fully benefit from the course.

The (Thursday) sessions with faculty are more engaging, as people would have read the papers by then (in addition to participation in these sessions being 50% of the course grade). The Tuesday sessions with the teaching fellows were less productive in terms of the breadth and depth of discussion.

Coursework-wise: there are no weekly assignments - only take-home mid-term and final examinations - these were useful exercises in critical writing on specific papers, though more feedback on these exams would have been beneficial in enhancing the value of the course.
Paper-reading is an extremely valuable skill, and so is the ability to introduce yourself to a field. This is a great class for learning these skills, and you also learn a lot of biology.
Painful but useful learning experience in developing your critical thinking
This course helped me to develop and further refine my approach to criticism of relevant literature, to broaden my exposure to both new and old techniques, and to appreciate some significant papers in their historical contexts.
Teaches you how to read papers critically and think about future research. Your experience may vary widely depending on the student group and instructor.
This is a good, essential course. If the paper selection was like 2013-2014 fall; you might enjoy the course most if you are interested in biochemistry/cell biology
It's challenging, but it's very valuable.
The course will really allow you to develop paper reading skills and get you used to combing through the primary literature. It is representative of what you might need to do in research, in that it doesn't just give you great, seminal papers to read, but also recent, convoluted, and poorly written papers to work your way through and critique.
It is likely a required course, but I think it is a good way to get exposed to literature in different fields.
It is a lot of work, but it may be the most useful class you take in graduate school in terms of learning skills that you need on a daily basis.
I'm astounded by how much I learned in this course!
Read papers several days in advance.Look up review papers that give a simpler overview of the topic before delving into the papers.
Discussions depends very much on who is in the group and on who is leading it.
If you focus on learning how to read primary biological literature from the instructors this can be a very enjoyable and valuable course.
One of the most beneficial courses as a graduate student because it teaches you how to critically analyze a paper, which will be very helpful when preparing for your PQE and future literature researching in general.
Be prepared to feel like you know nothing and to have to read a whole lot and feel like it's never enough. Welcome to grad school.
I hope you like vesicle trafficking.
This course is a good forum for a journal club/seminar.  Hopefully this isn't your first experience reading literature critically and discussing it among peers, but if it is it's a good introduction.  It only works if you (1) read the papers and (2) participate in the discussion.  And if you do those two, it works very well.
This class is very time consuming and expect to spend a lot of time/effort reading, looking up background info, etc. But it is very informative and beneficial if you put the time into it.
You'll get as much out of the course as you put into it.
Good course that introduces you to thinking critically about scientific paper: not every Science, Nature, Cell paper is accurate. To get the most out of the class, make sure to understand the benefits and downfalls of the techniques used in the paper, and speak up in class: if you feel like you have something to contribute, don't hesitate to get it out there.
Gives good overview of analysing literature, but what you learn varies between section leaders.
Great way to elevate literature reading skills and sharpen writing - both very relevant to graduate life.
This class is a lot of work; you will definitely need to read the papers closely and critically and come prepared to discussion. That said, it's totally worth it. You will learn a lot from this class in terms of how to look at papers critically and how to pick out the most important and relevant information even with only one read-through.
The more you prepare the papers for this course, the more you will get out of this class. Be sure to speak up and class and express your open opinions about the paper, even if you think they are incorrect.
There are many interesting ways to become a better scientist. This is probably not one of them.
It's a very challenging and time consuming course but discussions with the faculty members and exposure to different fields and techniques will really make you a better scientist and critical thinker.
BBS 230 greatly enhanced my ability to critically evaluate scientific literature by exposing me to several fields that I am not necessarily familiar with. This is definitely an essential course to take as a graduate student in biomedical science.
It consumes a lot of time while providing little benefit.
Does not really need marketing - it's mandatory and it's good.
This is a course designed for graduate students in the life sciences, where you will learn how to dissect and understand research articles, and I would discourage anyone who does not fall in that category from taking this course.
Your experience will be dependent on your assigned faculty for your sections.  You will get out of the course what you put into it.  Reading only the 2 weekly assigned papers is not enough; you should at least skim through a few other background papers as well.
It will go well if you really prepare and are ready to contribute when you come to section.
Overall, it's a good class. I learned a lot!
Very important preparatory class for the rest of graduate school.
You're satisfaction is completely up in the air, depending on your section leaders and students.
This class teaches you how to interact with professors and peers in a small class setting. It teaches you how to critically read papers and to analyze interpretations.
It is painful to read papers outside of your field of interest and "classic" papers. But doing so will dramatically increase your ability to critically evaluate scientific work.
This course provides an essential foundation in reading and critically assessing scientific literature.  Every biology graduate student should take this kind of course.
take the section component seriously, it can be really informative.
This class helped me to not be intimidated when reading primary literature. I feel confident that I can tackle any scientific paper after this course.
The class is useful, but will take a lot of time. Make sure to start early on reading each week.
You get out of it what you put into it - read the papers thoroughly before class and come prepared with questions and you'll learn a lot from the discussions.
The course is worth every moment of it. It will improve your paper reading and analyzing skills remarkably
-- I learned a lot, but this class made my semester very stressful
The course is an excellent opportunity to enhance critical reading skills and to discuss science.  However, it is very time consuming, both in terms of class time and preparation time.
Discussions were helpful even if articles were sometimes painful to read.
It's a required class for BBS.
Absolutely worth trying. The harder you work, the more you get out of it.
While I appreciate the time that the faculty take each week to discuss these papers, there is rarely any explanation of why these particular papers were chosen and what larger lesson we should learn from them- an explicit explanation would be helpful.
If the course readings remain similar, I only recommend this course to someone with strong interest in molecular biology.
Course is required, so recommendation really does not matter
It is a lot of work and there is much required of you, but the breadth of background information and methods you are exposed to makes it worth the time.  Everything depends on your section and faculty leaders so it is a great break when you switch because you read papers with a different eye depending on what is expected of you.
Don't be afraid to speak up because the silences are very awkward. Be sure to do background reading.
It is difficult, but worth it.
Helps you decrease the time it takes for you to read and comprehend a complex paper.
It is incredibly important to carefully read the assigned papers and participate actively in the discussion group. Reading a great deal of background material is not as important as participating in  the discussions.
