it's a ton of work, but definitely worth it.
I think most of the problems with the course were due to the fact the Prof Lok had never taught before. She tries very hard and is very knowledgeable, but she is still learning how to make exams and set grades. I feel like the course would probably be a lot better next year as Prof Lok gets more used to the structure of the department and what is expected of the students.
Despite the midterm, I felt this was a great class. One of my favorite classes thus far.
The class is hard, but Judith is good.  She's also funny when she lectures.  The class would be less difficult if you have a good TA/lab.
It is a medium-stress, high-learning class.  You want Judith in your corner.
Awesome class, you should definitely take it
The bulk of the course is developing counting process and martingale theory for survival analysis. This can be very theoretical, but there was also a lot of hand-waving in this course, which made it easier and more accessible to students. If you're looking to learn a lot of different methods for analyzing survival data, this is probably not the course to take.
Great course on advance topics of survival analysis
If you enjoy the more theoretical, "mathy" aspect of statistics, this will be a great course.  The instructor is good and genuinely cares about students but it is a very theoretical course and can be quite difficult.
This course is quite theoretically and would require real analysis, measure theory and some stochastic process background.  Don't be discouraged though becuase you can get through with only minimal knowledge of these areas.You will learn quite a bit for the theoretical treatment of survival analysis.
Judith is an excellent professor. She really takes the time to explain things clearly, and she genuinely wants her students to understand the material. While the concepts can be very difficult, if you read through your notes between classes, I think that you can get a lot more out of this course than other advanced biostats courses (multivariate, inference 2, etc).
Great course ! Should definitely consider taking it if you are interested in Survival Analysis. It provides an extensive overview of the standard methods including an in-depth discussion of the theory behind them and why they work. It really helps to have some prior background in advanced probability and stochastic processes. But don't worry if you don't have it. The instructor tries her best to take care of it within the course itself.
It can sometimes be a lot of work. The exams are random and don't really test you on the subject material, but it still an interesting class.
very hard class! can be boring at times since judith just reads the slides to you.
try to learn more than the course covered from Fleming and Harrington book and related papers
Awesome class.
This is a very difficult theory course but Judith made it an enjoyable learning experience with the care and concern she has shown the class, during lessons and outside of the classroom. The homework assignments that she assigned were of reasonable length and difficulty, and she has given many practical applications of the theory encountered in class.
This is a really good course in the theoretical foundations of survival analysis.  In methods courses, it is usually outside the scope of the class to investigate the properties of some very popular models (for example, Cox proportional hazard models).  This course fills that gap.  It's not a course in data analysis, so expect a lot of theoretical work.  Highly recommend the course to anyone interested in this area.
take it with judith :)
Learn Martingale theory.
The class is not incredibly time consuming or unnecessarily, but the material is quite difficult and detailed. You will get out of it what you choose to put into it (assuming the same professors are teaching) and it is worth your while to put in as much as you can.
A stress-free advanced doctoral course... you're free to learn as much or as little as you'd like.
difficult material, but lectures are easy to comprehend. exam was difficult. final project is interesting.
