This course helps you to read and understand the papers related  methods you might have seen in introductory computational biology courses. Since we have to give several presentations over the semester it also improves your presentation skills
Even if computational biology is not your field, this class is a great way to develop your skills as a researcher in terms of critical thinking, reading journal papers, and research design.  Discussion with Drs. Yuan and Hide is always lively, and, though sometimes challenging, enjoyable and informative.
This is a great course to take if you are doing something related to computational biology but your adviser is not be very savvy in that field. Even if they are savvy, it is a good way to read all those papers you have been meaning to read.
I would recommend this course to anyone thinking about going into the computational biology realm that has taken a molecular biology course (or have subsequent knowledge).  This course is much better than the intro to comp bio (I would not recommend that course), and Win and GC really care about getting to the heart of why we need computational biology and understanding that the mathematical models need to be looked at in terms of what is actually going on in the biologic system.  I only say reservations instead of likely to recommend because it was so bio heavy at times it was hard to follow.Additionally, you should have thick skin, they do not shy away from throwing punches during your presentations.  Be prepared to face difficult questions.
This is a very good course for getting a more advanced understanding of computational biology.  I would not recommend the course to those that do not already have a good biology foundation.  Computational biology experience would be helpful but more important is the basic biology.  But if you already have exposure to computational biology I think this is a fantastic course for pushing your knowledge the next step.  Students are largely responsible for what they take away from the course.  If you come in with the necessary tools and are willing to work, you could come away with a working understanding of a wide variety of computational biology topics.
The workload is extremely heavy and you must be willing to put worth a lot of effort.
This is a fun and interactive course that will expose you to key primary literature in the field. Everyone who wishes to pursue research in bioinformatics / computational biology / genomics have to take this course.GC and Win are great; this course is a good chance to get to know them.
This is a very useful class that allows one to learn all the major topics in Bioinformatics in just one semester.
