Great class. Bring elements together from many of the Biostats courses like the swirls in ice cream.
content is very useful
you need to know it, but learning it is painful, especially after having just taken the quals.
difficult but helpful
learn solidly. make sure to understand all the materials clearly
The material is important enough that I would recommend it despite a less than satisfactory course experience.
If David Wypij is teaching this course, don't waste your time.
do not take it if the same professor is teaching it.
This class will make you crazy and angry all the time.  It will be difficult to learn anything you want to know.
The important material in the class forms the foundation of what is needed to become an effective applied biostatistician. Unfortunately, in its current format, it is the most disappointing class I have ever taken. Since I need to know this material, I am now left buying textbooks with the hopes to teach myself.
You would be better off reading a book.  Do not take this class.
The material covered in this class is important; however, the teaching is unsatisfactory.  I would recommend future students to take this class with a different professor.
So long as the current professor is teaching this course, I would not recommend it.
It's pretty easy, but the lectures are brutal.
The class is difficult, but you're going to learn a lot and it's well worth it!
A good, comprehensive first course in mixed models.
You will work like CRAZY, but you will learn SO MUCH. This class is very hard, but also very good.
Take this class and you won't regret
This is important class to take since it is inevitable that a biostatistician will need to deal with correlated data in longitudinal settings. The course is not too stressful and at least with Sebastien Haneuse, lecture is not only a chance for the professor to teach, but also for students to engage and not be afraid to interrupt and ask questions. In retrospect, I wish I had also been reading a textbook alongside the course material as that would have helped me understand the material better than just relying on lecture slides.
The professor is all about interpretation of parameter estimates.
Sebastien is a great teacher, you will certainly learn what you need in longitudinal analysis.
Really useful
Very worthwhile and important material for any statistician. Highly recommend.
Highly recommended. A solid overview of methods for correlated data, with an emphasis on practical data analysis approaches. Not as deep on the theoretical side as some might like, but that weakness is made up for by taking other classes such as inference II to compensate. What you lose on "proof abilities" you will gain on applied skills and intuition.
