This is a foundational course for anyone in statistics.  It uses Casella and Berger's text, which is a staple for the field.  If you've taken an introductory course, then this course will extend your knowledge but won't be a huge time commitment.  If this is your first graduate probability course, be prepared to spend a lot of time on it.
A lot of useful material, but very challenging
Don't go to the lab component but review it afterwards. Make sure to do the practice problems and attend lecture. The instructor is very insightful, entertaining, and passionate about the subject.
You will get more out of this course if you self-study. Read Casella-Berger proactively and maybe even look for online resources if you need supplemental information about topics near the end of the course.
If you have not seen this material before, I would be hesitant to recommend this course. Also, if you have a course load that will not give you a lot of time to study, work on assignments, and attend extra office hours, then it might not be ideal either.
The exams are challenging, but the course is really interesting. The TAs were a huge help and the professor was as nice as can be.
The course in difficult, very importa and useful, but it is very time demanding.
Only take this course if you have a solid math background.
It is a good course if you don't have a solid background in probability.  However, if you are a Biostatistics PhD student and have a good background in probability, it is safe to skip this course.
Be perfect in your writing and steady in your studies.
I had already taken essentially the same class at another institution, but I still found it challenging and interesting. It is a thorough grounding in probability theory. Many of the homework problems from Casella & Berger are not difficult probabilistically, but rather require a lot of calculus "tricks" which are annoying. Our TAs helped us a lot with these. Also I recommend that everyone attend the section/lab meeting since working the practice problems in groups is an excellent way to learn. In fact, I would almost say it is more important to go to the section meetings than the lectures.
It was my most difficult class this semester, but it was also my favorite class. Master's biostat students don't have to take this class but I would recommend it for them, especially those intending to go into a phd program at some point. It is a lot of work, but it's also not an unreasonable amount, and many of the problems are challenging and interesting to think about and work through. You should acquire more than a superficial understanding of probability theory from this course (but still a little superficial; that's what probability 2 is for). And while this is a somewhat difficult course for most people, remember that even if you don't get a very good grade that doesn't mean you're a bad person.
Practise and be prepared to do lots of work problems.  That helps with your understanding and grades.
Start the homework early!
Great introductory course.
You'll have to put in a good amount of time to do well.
It is hard, be prepared for the worst.
This is a very good class. It will be quite hard with a heavy workload, but you will learn a lot.
Be prepared to work very, very hard. So hard, that you feel like your temples are caving in on your eyeballs, possibly accompanied by panic attacks.
Be prepared to study long hours, and finding a study group really helps!
Great course to learn about the foundations of probability and statistics.
Difficult, but very important for understanding the field.
To be honest, I don't really like probability theory. I really really like the completely applied section of statistics, and don't like math at all, so my comments here aren't really appropriate at all.
Since this is a required course, I don't know how important a recommendation is. That being said... taking it with Armin (and with Jen as a TA) made my transition to graduate work a much smoother one that I had expected. The course required a lot of work.. but I feel like I learned a lot.
Armin is a great teacher. I know some of the materials before but still appreciate relearning it from him. He encourages conceptual understanding of probability yet maintains strong mathematical ground.i feel like i learn a lot from it.
Only take if you need it for biostat PhD.
you learn fundamentals, very important and well taught
Very useful intro to probability.
From what I have heard, teachers become better as they teach this class year after year - so be patient. Know that in order to succeed and learn you will need to spend a lot of outside time studying the material but it is rewarding.
It's a good class.
