I'd say they should hurry up and take it before the instructor changes.
Good class, you will learn a lot of inference.
the professor is great!
This is a fundamental class, unfortunately, the lectures are not good.
Rebecca is the best professor we have had this semester. She speaks at a volume that does not cure insomnia, and speaks at a right pace such that we can digest what she says when she says them. She answers questions and is friendly to us, which makes this class enjoyable even though the material is very dry and unintuitive.
Great professor, interesting material
Rebecca is a wonderful teacher, and David made a great TA.  If you have this same setup, you will have a great time!
This is a solid, masters-level overview of statistical theory of inference. It's a fundamental topic and the course covers all the major areas.
The first two-thirds of the material is easier. The last third gets tougher. Investing time towards the end will help--particularly, if you are taking the qualifying exams.
Go to labs! Ask questions! The exam questions are do-able if you understand the material well - they will NOT be similar to questions on homework and lab. Make sure you understand the material holistically.
Take only if there is a requirement of you are really interested in probability theory or want to purse a PhD/Master in Biostatistics.
It's not hard but it's essential.
If you're required to take this class, skip the lectures and spend that time teaching yourself the material from the texts. Go to every lab.
You have to take it in the doctoral program, but know that lab/sections is where you will learn the material.
A good course to learn inference. Judith is a clear lecturer once you get used to her style. The lectures were a good mix of theory and lots of examples. Section and hw gave more examples for you to play with. The homework required some thinking but was very doable. Overall I think this is a really well-run course that teaches you inference effectively. 5/5.
If you can take the FAS classes, do so.
A fair chunk of this class is memorizing and applying reasonably simple concepts to many particular distributions. Somewhat less emphasis on more general/basic concepts.
This is a tough course but you learn quite a lot. Judith is a passionate teacher who is very good at explaining the material and connecting the concepts covered in the class with one another and with the field of biostatistics more generally.
Excellent TA and Professor.
very hard but very rewarding
This is a great class if you are interested in understanding the theory behind statistics, but you should make sure that you have the background and the time outside of class to really make the most of it.
This is a must take course for anyone serious about understanding the theory of statistical inference.  The course uses Casella and Berger's text, which is the standard in the discipline for this level course.  The homeworks and exams are challenging, but fair.  If you have a good understanding of probability and some basic knowledge of calculus, you should have no problem in this course.
