It's painful but necessary.
the professor is good and always available for clarifications also outside office hours time
Brent is so clear in his presentation and you really come to understand the material not as a bunch of separate topics e.g. logistic or poisson regression, but as special cases of general exponential family theory.  You really gain intuition for the material, not just learn a cookbook of methods.
Material is useful, and Brent is an excellent teacher. He moves the class along at a steady pace.
Brent is an excellent professor.
Unless you are studying biostatistics, this course may be more intense than necessary for a working understanding of the applications.
Sebastien struggled to finish teaching survival analysis, which is one of the core topics of this course, even though the fact that he assigned take home exams meant he had way more class time than other professors. There was too much focus on linear regression and too little on new material such as binary, count and survival data, which were really interesting. The course covers interesting material, but there is room for improvement.
This is a hard and time-consuming class.  However, the material covered is really foundational and it's taught by a good professor.  This is material that many biostatisticians use every day.
The weekly homeworks will typically take 10-20 hours to complete.  Plan accordingly.
The content is well presented and well-taught. Sebastien is a good teacher but seems to hate questions, which I find strange. I think he just really likes to be in complete control of the class and gets flustered when people start asking questions. However, it's worth it to take the class and you get a lot out of it, especially the course notes and materials. Your R programming will very much improve as the code is directly taught in class which is nice.
Except for my previous comments about Sebastien's classroom policy, the class was exceptional in every respect.
Demands a lot of you, but you get a lot out of it.
Sebastien has high expectations, but you'll learn a lot from him.
Absolutely take this course if you've got the time - you'll get out what you put in to it. Perhaps the best lectures of any course I've ever taken. Assignments are long but teach you a lot - they're cleverly designed to help you grasp difficult big-picture concepts.
The homework for this course is incredibly time-consuming, so prepare your schedule accordingly.
Even if you need previous preparation, this course is very useful for any people interested in learning method for quantitative research.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time running and rerunning simulations.
It's a difficult course which requires a lot of computation, but it covers material essential for practical data analysis.
If you want to learn GLMs, you are better off taking the Agresti class in the stat department. This class is a bizarre mixture of Bayes, GLMs, and epidemiology (study designs, matching, etc) combined with heavy, but mindless simulations that will require a lot of programming. There are some good bits and pieces in the lectures, but overall it's not worth taking unless you have to for the qual. The grading of the assignments is very unpredictable and requires you to read the professor's mind about interpretations of coefficients, etc.
Sebastian was amazing. The assignments took a lot of time; so, if you are taking this class, try to take classes that won't chew up too much of your time, cause this class will take up a lot of time.
You will learn so much! Start homeworks with long simulation early. Be very thorough in your written answers.
a lot of work and the professor expects a lot
Sebastien is the best teacher ever - take any course with him.
It's a very helpful course for understanding the statistical issues involved with many of the popular statistical tools used in practice, beyond what's taught in introductory classes.
Unless you have a programming background, I would not recommend this course.
Be prepared to work hours upon hours on the homework.
Very practical and interesting class that is extremely well laid out.
This course is an incredibly useful overview of a wide variety of biostatistical methods. It is very well-taught and will give you both a theoretical and practical understanding of the concepts.
Pretty good class. Brent Coull does a pretty good job of presenting the material, all of which are useful techniques that are frequently encountered in biostatistics. I thought all the assignments and exams were fair, and not unreasonably difficult. The grading was a bit harsh, though, so watch out for that. Otherwise a pretty good class, covering pretty useful topics.
Good course, better than the applied regression courses that the department has.
Very useful course for learning GLMs and some Bayesian methods. Great assignments and exams.
This is an outstanding course.  My favorite at Harvard.  This is a practical course in data analysis.  For someone outside the Biostat department, this course will give you a lot of tools for analyzing and interpreting your data.
if you are an aspiring biostatistician this is a great class to take
This class is the most interesting thing that can happen to you at 8:30am. I promise.
