Rebecca is good. Go through notes a couple times to fully absorb the material.
this is a tough class, but rebecca's a great professor - she does a great job of making the difficult concepts graspable.
Prof Betensky is amazing. She is by far the best professor I have had this year. She very enthusiastic about the material and she worked very hard to improve the course.
This is a very difficult class. Do not take it if you have a full course load.
This class is very challenging! Only take it if you are comfortable with the more theoretical end of statistics. Also, the stuff we learn is at times interesting, but I doubt I will ever use any of it in my research.
it is challenging but a great course
I think this class changes a lot from year to year.
very good course
This was by far the best class I have taken in the biostatistics department.
If you want to get proper introduction to semiparametric inference,you  should definitely go to this class.Moreover the professor is great.
There's some good stuff in this class that is useful, but it's not presented in such a way and is kind of a chore to get through. I feel like people kind of gave up on it pretty quickly. Honestly I would just tell them that I didn't enjoy this class, and feel like I didn't get that much out of it. I kind of hated that class, and I hate my self for saying that.
This material is worth knowing.  Having said that, you will simply learn more by reading her notes for two hours than you will by sitting in her class.  If you can avoid this class and learn the material otherwise, it's hard to imagine you not being better off.
Don't take this course if Armin is teaching.
The class was not great. However, to be fair it was his first time teaching it.
It is hard.
This class is so hard. It made me cry a few times, but in the end, you learn a lot and you won't regret it...unless you fail, then you might regret it.
Be prepared to read the notes over and over and over and over again. Prob II would be useful.
It's hard but really necessary if you want to go into methods research in biostats.
This class is really hard, but the material is essential for anybody who would like to do theoretical work in the future.
be ready to do a lot of work but you'll learn a lot
This course is difficult, but you will get the ground knowledge of semiparametric inference.
The most challenging advanced doctoral course I took. Lots of material, covered very rapidly and at a very high level. Buckle up.
This class is very difficult and theoretical, but the material is interesting and useful. The professor is very nice and cares about teaching. She was willing to listen to students' feedback and adapt accordingly.
You will work your ass off, but it will be worth it (assuming the same professor)
This class is very challenging and the work load is heavy. That being said, I learned a lot and will certainly come back to my notes often in my future research.
