I wouldn't recommend this to anyone who isn't analytical as they will find it hard to complete the weekly assignments.
It is a survey course that will allow you to narrow your interests within the realm of Near Eastern studies.
This course is an excellent introduction to the various narrative traditions of the Middle East.
It's a requirement, so the recommendation is meaningless.  This class shouldn't stop you from concentrating in NELC, but unless you're really into Ancient Near Eastern law codes, you just have to power through.
I really enjoyed talking with Professor Harris, but I wished the course had been organized more and that we had gotten through more material.  Harris is also a very harsh but fair grader...his comments on your papers will definitely make you a more self-critical writer, which is a great thing, so don't take the criticism too much to heart!
Strength of course depends on the quality of the teacher...could be good with a better teacher and better readings
There's lots of good material, but the workload is frustrating and sometimes forces you to be more superficial with the texts than you would otherwise be, in deference to time and other class commitments and because some of the primary texts are very difficult to parse on their own without significant background.
Class with Prof. Russell is always interesting and engaging, and you learn a lot without being overwhelmed by the workload or expectations. It's a nice introduction to NELC and the department, and you get to know your fellow concentrators well.
This was one of those courses where you have no idea what's going on during the class yet, if you hang on for the ride, you learn a ton (though not sure how...). Professor Russell is a fascinating person to learn from in a course, and it is a course truly memorable that I will remember for a long time. One of my favorites taken at Harvard.
This was my favorite course this semester.
understand that this course is, unfortunately, a requirement for your degree.  if you keep an open mind, you will learn a lot about certain aspects of the near east, particularly in terms of ancient and medieval literature.  you might be disappointed, but keep your head up and you'll make it through.
Spend time with Professor Russell outside of class, as his stories are fascinating and he's a wonderful human being.
Professor Russell is quite a character, and you can expect to get quite a lot of his unique perspectives and opinions over the course of this class. While this was often somewhat intimidating, I would encourage you to speak up often in class and get to know him as much as you can, because he's a really interesting person who has some ingenious ideas.
This class is a lot better than it might look. Caitlyn is an engaged and knowledgeable TF, who is committed to helping students improve their writing, and isn't averse to some creativity! Gojko is also very knowledgeable, and has very broad interests - he can talk to pretty much anyone about what they're interested in, and will help you develop your thinking in important ways. Weekly response papers of about a page are required - these were really helpful in allowing me to formulate my thoughts. The final is a 48-hour take home exam-essay. Word of advice: try to identify some common themes throughout the semester and explore them in your responses, it'll help a lot on the final. My major criticism of this class in the section component: while a there was some productive discussion, a lot of it felt like recap - and a little too much of it was invested in "games" which were designed to force the students to engage with the material. It's almost as though it was assumed that no one was doing the readings; even if that feels like it's the case, I would think it ought not to be encouraged. Rather, I would imagine that requiring students to participate in active discussion would push them to read more carefully when they find that they have nothing to say.
It is a great survey of the department as well as the field and to learn about the specialisms of the professors. The course incorporates some really interesting and fun events outside of class that brings the material to life.
Great class but can be too specific at times.
It was first tutorial I have ever taken, and one I enjoyed greatly.
Great class that far exceeded expectations given it was the first year being run! Gojko and Caitlyn are some of the most supportive instructors, and the class was structured in a way in which you gain both breadth and depth on the weekly topics. The evening events were a refreshing way to approach the class material, and weekly response paper assignments were very reasonable.
Start your papers early and go to the professor for comments on them.
Professor Russell is an unforgettable character and a brilliant professor. Take this class to learn the things that other people don't bother learning. Though Prof. Russell is principally a scholar of Armenia, his knowledge of numerous other worlds (not to mention languages) is spectacular. He is also extremely accessible outside of class.
