This class is difficult, but the material is fascinating. If you don't have experience with proof-based math classes, be prepared to work much harder than the rest of the class.
I do recommend the course, especially to economics students willing to invest a fair bit of time, but with reservations. The course attempts to blend theory and application, but as a result the semester feels rushed and neither is really covered in a satisfying way. The proofs were challenging, and memorizing 9 or 10 proofs for each exam is frustrating and not especially effective. The applications were cute but felt oversimplified and not immediately relevant to real-world optimization problems. There were 13 long weekly problem sets and 3 exams, so the workload never really allows you to step back and put the material in context. That said, it's really interesting material and probably worth taking -- but quite often the course misses the forest for the trees.
This course was absolutely stellar. I learned a lot and also saw useful applications of real analysis. Paul Bamberg is one of the best professors I have ever had. Take this course!
A solid course if you want to learn optimization, especially the  infinite-dimensional case.
The course is rather applied and very useful for economics students, for example. Math concentrators, however, may prefer more abstract courses.
Paul is a great teacher and topics are very interesting
You may hear this a lot, but make sure you have enough time in your schedule for this course. If I had more time (if I had 2-3 days to spread out my work on the problem set each week, and did a better job of going to Paul's office hours), I think I would have been fine in this course--it's predictable and organized. The concepts are a bit tricky, especially late October onwards, but it's nothing that you can't get your head around with enough practice, and the algorithmic problem sets give you plenty of that as long as you put the time in.The class is very distinctly split up into three sections, from my perspective. September (up to Quiz 1) is reviewing/learning for the first time real analysis (some of it is gone over too quickly/definitions are skipped which was frustrating). October (up to Quiz 2) is doing fun problems with orthogonality that is pretty geometrically intuitive. Late October onwards (up to Quiz 3/final) is dual spaces and alignment and more stuff that is more fast-paced and which I could not get as much geometic intuition for.I would wager that this class, out of all the 100-level math and physics courses here, most broadly straddles proofs and computation/application. You have to memorize proofs for the quizzes, which I hated, but I think the proofs that we were memorizing were mostly proofs that had some amount of construction/originality to them that you wouldn't have thought of yourself, so I can see why they're worth memorizing.Lastly, you have to be self-motivated for this course.
I highly recommend this class because Paul is the best math teacher at Harvard. He lectures well, listens to his students, and is very helpful in helping you understand the material.The course content is difficult - probably on the harder side of math classes, but super-interesting after the first 3 weeks.. (the first 3 weeks are heavy on real analysis), since they turn to very relevant optimization techniques.The course content helps me understand mathematics much better, and sheds light on the technical aspects of many research papers (I found some theoretical machine learning papers easier to understand for instance). I think it's a high workload, psets took me about 15 hours to complete, and there were 13 of them. With the exam studying spikes (~40 hrs to study for each of the 3 exams - 2 quizzes, 1 final), the course takes about 25 hrs/week, so keep that in mind when course planning. The final was very difficult, so keep that in mind too, you should have done quite well in the course up to the final, so that you have a buffer.Paul's notes are great, few other courses give you handwritten notes to read, so that you can understand the material without going to lecture. You never have to read the textbook (which is terrible anyway), since Paul's notes are so detailed and so easy to understand!
Interesting material. Well-crafted curriculum. Fair tests. While I have more insight into the the theory behind them, I am not sure I can solve optimization problems any better than before. The methods studied are seriously overpowered for most of the applications in the course, which could be solved more simply using Lagrange multipliers. The assignments were sometimes quite repetitive. Most of the psets were never returned until the day before the final. Some were not returned at all.
This class is extremely difficult and I would take it only if you have sufficient experience with theoretical math and at least 10 hours per week to complete problem sets.
It covers really cool topics and appears as though it will really be useful in my future, which I think is awesome.
The problem sets were of highly varied difficulty; at times I finished a problem set in under an hour; at other times I spent over ten hours piecing together seemingly abstract concepts, just to find an actual application to a deviously simple two-variable problem.
As long as you're ready for a bumpy ride with Paul (who hopefully will continue to polish this though) and working through some hardcore math... get ready for one astonishing ride through the powerful world of math to solve problems and questions in the world we live in! If all permits, I would love to take the course again perhaps with more apt preparation so maybe I'll run into some of you =).
They should not miss the chance of taking a special course like this one.
The class is pretty good and not particularly difficult.  If you want to learn a lot about optimization you would probably be better served by taking a grad class at MIT assuming you have the time to throw at it.
take applied math 121 if you're interested in economics, scientific computing, etc.
This class is very challenging. For applied math concentrators, there are certainly many easier ways to fulfill the analysis requirement. However, the concepts taught in optimization are more relevant to application in economics than those covered in other classes.
It's hard (if you aren't a math concentrator), time demanding, and maybe not immediately useful for applications. But it's worth it.
If you need a math class, this is a good one, but it can be very confusing at times.  Also, it's not as elegant as some other math courses, though it is more applicable.
It's quite fun and relatively painless. Don't take it as a blowoff though, it takes a decent amoutn of work.
Great class.  You will learn a lot, and yet it never seems all that difficult because of Paul's teaching.  Sometimes not the most fascinating topics, but they are important and Paul teaches in a way that makes it easy.
You know what you're going to get with a Bamberg class. His regimented teaching formula works very well with this material though. It's challenging and hard to wrap your head around and there are times when you have to just trust him that all the functional analysis will eventually lead to applications, but there is always a light waiting at the end of the tunnel. Also TF is smoking hot
This class is difficult, especially since my background wasn't great (I had taken a proof-based class, but it was much easier than something like Math 23). Paul is engaging and usually clear enough to follow. The homework problems vary in difficulty, with several problems repeating what you did in class but occasional problems that are much more difficult than anything from class. Memorizing proofs is annoying since I don't think it will help me produce proofs on my own. The methods you learn are theoretically very useful, but the problems we see still need to be "cooked up" to be simple enough to solve - and at that point single-variable calculus would often do just as well.
Preview the notes and read the book, go to class, review the notes, do problem sets, and you will learn tons.
It certainly adds much to your understanding of almost all aspects of mathematics from real analysis to calculus of variations.
Challenging course, but well worth it
If Daniel Cooney is the CA, you will have a fantastic learning experience.  Daniel is truly dedicated, and his teaching style is wholeheartedly synergistic with that of Paul Bamberg.  Daniel's energy, intellect, and teaching acumen, in combination with the brilliant and lucid lectures given by Paul, combine to form a math course which is a true gem in the department.
Extremely interesting material. A bit old-fashioned, but you will learn about optimization in a very useful way.
This is a great class, which I'd highly recommend. The one caveat is that there's quite a bit of homework, and the problem sets are usually long. If you can power through them, though, you'll get a lot out of this course. Paul's a great lecturer.
Even if you don't have the requirements, you can definitely take the course as long as you are willing to work hard and put in a lot of time.
Paul is always entertaining with his stories, and his notes make the material more digestible. Dan was helpful and always available with office hours and sections. Definitely take it if it is with Paul and Dan
This course is a solid, interesting and rigorous introduction to a difficult subject in functional analysis. The Luenberger textbook is great, and the course will train you to think much more precisely about vector spaces.It is not strictly necessary for Economics 2010a, however (despite being listed as such).
The material of this class ranges from trivial to very difficult. Be sure to stay on top of it as the beginning of the course is not representative of the difficulty by the end.
This is a class where you might be left alone a little bit, so be prepared to motivate yourself to really learn the material - it's definitely possible, though the material is difficult sometimes - but what makes the course hard is that you sometimes have to teach yourself.
The class isn't well organized. We had two psets due during reading period, one of which was due the day before the final. So a good portion of your reading/finals period will be learning new material from this class as well as reviewing for it. Other than that, the work during the semester isn't too onerous and I did like the mix of theory and application of functional analysis, although the course did shift to the computational side later on in the semester.
Having a problem set per week is a good amount of work. It is easy when taking this class to feel as if you're doing problems that are seemingly useless. The course has a tendency to miss the forrest for the trees. But with some effort from reading the textbook, the course has the potential to help you think more broadly about what optimization actually is.
Problem sets are hard. I put a couple of nights into them, went to section, and still had a near-weekly struggle to finish them. That said, the course is graded really fairly, and tests are very, very manageable. It's a hard course, but one where you can do well.
Overall, it was a great class. Be prepared to work hard though, as the problem sets are labor intensive. Paul is enthusiastic about the material, and if you keep an open mind, it can be contagious.
It's an interesting class that tries to present the connections among many different ways of optimization. Worth the time to think about the all the problems and develop the ability to synthesize.
This is really a cool class in which you get to both learn new theoretical concepts and get to see them in action as they are applied to optimization problems. Paul really cares about his students, and it's just an overall fun mathematical experience. Note for students who are coming from Math 23, this class is more difficult and more time consuming.
This class skims the surface of a lot of material but does not leave you with a big-picture understanding of the concepts. Most of the class is devoted to contrived examples which can be solved with single-variable calculus in the first place. The workload is heavy; the payoff is light.
the class is not extremely difficult. The hard part is to understand the methods after that is very much the same and it may make the class boring - i.e. you either know how to do it or you don't know.
Brilliant course with great material but make sure you take the extra time outside of class to really understand the material each week because it builds fast
Pretty useful class.  Definitely spend time reading Luenberger.  It's very easy to just rely on the class notes, but if you go through the book yourself, you gain a much better understanding of what's going on.  Homeworks can be annoying but they are tolerable (wish that the homeworks would at least be weighted more given how much effort we put into them).  Quizzes and final are very reasonable.
Many, many assignments. However, knowledge of the optimization problems we solved promises to be very useful.
It teaches a decent mix of theory and applications. But be warned, the P-sets are pretty hard.
This course will come to *define* how you think about optimization problems, and it's completely rigorous.  It takes some work, especially toward the beginning, but it's completely worth it.
It's a hard class, no doubt about it.  Interesting, though, and well-taught.  I would recommend it if you're in a more applied field, but you're still interested in the pure/proof side of things.
It is a challenging but fun and rewarding class.
Take AM121 unless you are interested in theory.
Be ready for a VERY heavy workload.  For me, what I think makes or breaks the class is the quality of the TAs - without their help I would have been totally lost.  Make sure you take advantage of them.
This semester's class definitely had some structural issues (i.e. we didn't finish on time, had extra classes, and two full length problem sets due during reading period) However, the material was interesting  (but often incredibly difficult) and aside from that, well structured. For Math 23 students considering 116:   The class is doable. But 23 and 116 aren't really comparable. The material is more difficult, and the psets more time consuming (especially since we have less proof experience than those in 25/55)
More work than it appears, and not particularly rewarding.
Don't let the first weeks of the class fool you.  The material gets very difficult very quickly after you have already committed to taking the class.  Also, it's very easy to not know what the heck you are learning has to do with optimization.  The first half of the class seems just like any other math class, but the last half finally uses that stuff to solve problems.  It's just hard to lose sight of the purpose of the class.
very difficult, students must be willing to work hard
This is class is interesting but challenging. If you are diligent and have a mathematically-oriented mind, this course is probably reasonable for you.
The homework is incredibly time consuming, and the material isn't taught in an incredibly interesting way from a theoretical mathematical perspective.
Some portions of this course are useful for econ/engineering types, but though the exams are largely applications the content tends toward the theoretical.  The class is hard and time consuming and not an easy way to fulfill the analysis requirement or the math secondary field.
Make sure you will make a strong commitment and dedication, both time and energy, before decide to this course
Excellent course with good mix of theoretical and applied material. Problem sets are well-designed, the professor's lecture notes are helpful, and the professor himself is one of the best I've had at Harvard - not only is he enthusiastic about the material, but he also tries to make things easier for students (e.g. setting the class time so that it is more convenient for Extension students, giving us the choice between quizzes and a midterm, etc.).
This is a great class to take if you want a view into some applications of the more abstract things that you learn in upper-level mathematics classes. While the math does get advanced, it doesn't get too in-depth, with more emphasis on the applications.
Long homeworks.
