Be persistent and ask a lot of questions. Peter is at his best when he is put on the spot. His examples are hilarious.
If you are thinking about taking this class, consider why you want to take it. If you're majoring in one of the life sciences, math through 19a is generally adequate. If you're majoring in one of the other sciences (or really anything else), 21b is probably a safer choice. This class attempts to mix linear algebra and probability with applications to biology, but instead it teaches none of them well. Take 21b instead, and a stat class if you're interested. The supposed ease of this course does not make up for its lack of organization and general ineptitude.
This is a very interesting class, but at times the assignments can be confusing and the lectures jump around a bit. Also, the applications to the life sciences were not nearly as many or as practical as I thought they'd be. That said, despite its drawbacks, I enjoyed the class.
You learn a lot and Peter is quite entertaining. Also very laid back... a class that is basically all section. I recommend it... Just attend all lectures and you'll be fine.
Unclear lectures, probability/statistics section not as organized as linear algebra.  Low stress class, but confusing
This class is no different than 21b, and I would recommend you take that class instead. For life sciences students interested in understanding the mathematics in many scientific journals, 19a is the only relevant class, as this class does not try at all to allow the student to understand the scientific value of mathematics.
Come to office hours!!! (Often.)
If you're interested in the life sciences, it's much better than 21B! It guarantees a good TF/professor, the final is replaced with a really interesting project, and you learn most of the same material, except everything is contextualized for the life sciences.
Solid math class! There's more of a focus on giving presentations than you might expect, but that's ultimately helpful (and much better than taking a final!)
Overall, I really enjoyed this class! I felt like I learned a lot, and Rosalie is an amazing preceptor who knows what she is doing and is great at teaching the material. The grading was very fair, the problem sets were usually at a good difficulty level (though some of the last psets were a little harder), and you always know where you're at grade-wise in the class. Rosalie is always willing to meet outside of her scheduled office hours and is ready to help. One thing to keep in mind: start on your final project early!
Courses directed at the life sciences often suffer from sweeping so much under the rug that any real understanding of the mathematics suffers. This course does a nice job of balancing a sufficient understanding of the math, and then applying those concepts in situations that one might find in medicine or basic research. Even students that are not especially interested in the quantitative side of biology will find the ideas discussed in this course come up over and over again in many fields. A basic understanding of calculus is nice for the later units, but it is possible to get by with a one or two days of independent review. If possible, I would recommend taking a quick crash course on basic vector and matrix operations. The class will teach them to you, but often it pushes you to see some deeper insight using the operations. If you have already seen a dot product, even if briefly, you will get more out of the course.
This class was really challenging, but not really in a good way - there were so many times I looked at the pset after having attending class all week and taken careful notes, but still had no idea what the questions were talking about.
Sometimes the wording on assignments can be a bit confusing, but the course is really cool and helpful, and Rosalie is awesome!!
Good segue to take after Math 19a, similar structure with final project.  The techniques learned are also very practical for the life sciences.
An interesting and often fun course -- offers exposure to a lot of topics. However, you come away with a sense of what's out there rather than a well-defined skill set to start applying
This class takes a lot of time if you want to do well. Problem sets are complicated and lectures only give you the basics of what you need to do the homework. You end up spending a lot of time just trying to think through the questions, though that does give you a good depth of knowledge. Don't take this class if you already have a heavy workload, but it's doable with LS1b if your other two classes are easy.
Start on the final project as early as possible! And go for office hours when you don't understand things in lecture.
