The course brought together material from a number of courses that I'd taken previously.  It's a good way to review and put to use math learned in many other classes.
I really liked both the material and the way it was presented.
Would only recommend it to people interested specifically in this area. (As the topic changes every year, though, this would probably not apply in future years.)
This is undoubtedly the best course I've taken in three years at Harvard.It's hands-down and example-rich, and forces you to work. But far from making it boring, the effect (especially infused with Harris's taste and enthusiasm) is a delectable mathematical experience.
Take it.  You won't regret it.
It depends heavily on who is teaching it.
Joe Harris is such a great teacher that you will not only learn the subject matter, you will passionately want to learn it -- take his classes!
It doesn't matter what I write here, since it won't show up (because there are only two students enrolled). But in the off chance that it does, it still doesn't matter, because Mautner won't be here and this is a second-semester graduate course (whence it won't be the same again next year)! But I still liked this year's incarnation of the class. Thanks Carl!
This is a topics class - the recommendation is given based on this year's topic and quality of instruction.
Phil is a really great teacher! The subject material was also really interesting and I learned a fair amount, though near the end it got to a lot of computations that I was following mechanically but not necessarily understanding all that well
The content of Math 232b changes year to year. I very much enjoyed this class this year when we did the classification of algebraic surfaces.
With Mboyo, this was a small class and a fun ride through his research interest in elliptic fibrations. Historical topics have included toric varieties, complex algebraic varieties, and intersection theory. Someone interested in modern AG (scheme theory, et al.) should look at 233a/b.
