This class is necessary for a lot of requirements, but it is frustrating in many ways.
Only take it if you actually have to take a math class. This class is not as easy as people make it seem. You have to meet 5 days a week, there are 34 psets a semester, 3 gateway tests, 2 midterms, a project, and a final. Also, the psets can be really challenging at times. In class, you get a brief overview on the material and then the psets are much harder.
I really enjoyed this class. You have to put in some effort studying for the midterms and final, but on the whole, it is a very doable class. I really loved it!
A lot of busy-work, but an important foundational course.
A lot of work. Psets are time consuming and difficult. No matter how much you study you will never feel fully prepared for a midterm or final. Only take if you really like math or really need to fulfill a requirement.
Be prepared to dedicate a good chunk of time to this class, but at the same time, if you put in the work, you will be happy with the results in the end. The teachers are all pretty great too.
It is a lot of work. Constantly working on psets.
make sure to give a good effort on the homework
Stay on top of the work with the problem sets and go to the review sessions.
It's a great continuation of Math Ma. Take it if needed!
It's a lot more difficult than Math Ma, but it's a rewarding class, it is taught well, and it will teach you the physical applications of trigonometry and calculus, which have been used for thousands of years for some of mankind's greatest accomplishments.
Section: where you learn the material, almost all TFs are greatProblem Sets: a lot, and sometimes too long, but it really helps you learnWorkshop: basically ensures you meet every day for this class, sometimes pointless, but reinforces ideas, should be more optional somehow based on exam results or somethingExams: very fair, generally no or very slight curve, you'll get a good grade if you do and understand the practice exams, which are always postedOffice Hours and Math Study Center: go any time you have questions or would like to review, great resources and attention
It is really easy but there it is a big time commitment.
This class made me like calculus again. You probably won't find another group of staff willing to make the course exciting for the students, from the colorful chalk to the ninja turtle questions on the exams.
This course is for those of you who want/need to learn calc, but may have some gaps in your mathematical foundation and knowledge.
If you need a little brushing up on your calculus, or you have not taken calculus, this class does a great job of thoroughly going through the topics.
A lot of problem sets. Meghan did a great job with teaching and making sure that things made sense.
Fun class with Meredith
It's easy to slack after first semester
Math Mb was a fairly smooth transition course from the material taught in Math Ma. While the pace was accelerated, I found that I understood the material and enjoyed learning the concepts. Honestly, if you do your psets and ask questions when you're confused, you will be fine.
This is an excellent introduction to calculus.
It's great. I had fun and that's saying a lot because I don't really like math of any sort.
This is probably the most nurturing math experience you will have at Harvard.
Takes up a lot of time. Meets 5 days a week and 3 psets. However, it makes sure you stay caught up with the work.
This class is definitely rewarding--even if your interest does not lie in math.  The instructors do an excellent job of teaching the core concepts of introductory calculus in a fun and engaging way.  I went from despising math to actually thinking it was fun.
Take it!! If you are not all too confident with your math skills and not sure if you want to take Math 1a, then this is the class for you. They go more in depth wit the material so that you have a good understanding of it. I'm not really a math person so this course was perfect for me.
The Math Ma/Mb sequence is an excellent way to obtain a strong base in calculus.
take this class because you are interested in math, because it is a great class but it requires you to have the dedication and passion
It is a great class, lots of work and time, but worth it.
This class requires a lot of time and effort, but I really do feel like it is worth it. I know, personally, I have walked away feeling confident about the material covered in the course.
Math Mb is fun!! FUN!!
If you are not a strong math student, you will begin to be after this course. However, only take it if you really are not comfortable with math.
I liked this course better than Ma, and for a math I think its pretty good, but all the gateways get old fast. But really you probably all have to take this class just like I had to.
This course is really good for helping you see the "why" behind certain theories and also for teaching you how to rebuild formulas and theorems by simply taking what you know and thinking logically about things.
You have to fully commit to this half
A lot of time and commitment
If you like math its pretty easy.
The class itself is ok. It would be good to have a little background in calculus. You'll find it much easier.
