Please keep in mind: i) Mathematics classes vary greatly year to year based upon the instructor. ii) My experience was not typical to say the least. With that caveat, I will say that I loved this class. It is a little off the beaten path in that it is a topic course, but the material is fascinating and still very applicable to other branches of mathematics. I was unable to attend lecture regularly due to scheduling issues, so most of my learning occurred on my own outside of class and with Paul in office hours. Paul's explanations were always very clear and helpful. In addition, his problem sets were quite challenging and helped to drive important concepts home. The textbook (Montgomery-Vaughan) is beautifully written, and the supplement (Iwaniec-Kowalski) was a great resource. Finally, the course this year was geared more towards analysts, which I enjoyed, but can certainly be made more algebraic if the instructor wishes.
The class moves along slowly, but covers some interesting material. Problem sets were interesting, though not particularly difficult.
Professor Mazur is a fun lecturer and you can be guaranteed that any course you take with him will be profitable in your growth as a mathematician.  But while I adore algebraic number theory, I found parts of this class boring and analysis-heavy, and sometimes the beautiful results occluded by the excessive details we went through in the proofs.  It took an extra layer of motivation on my part to fully appreciate the content of this course.  If you adore analysis, then this is a perfect class.  If you just want to get flavor for number theory, though, without necessarily the intention of pursuing number theory in the future, I would recommend an algebraic-flavored course, as the results of 229 lie more on the periphery to the core substance that compromises of number theory.  That said, Mazur did a very good job with the subject, and I really did enjoy the course quite a lot!
Professor Mazur teaches very well!
The subject is interesting (applying real and especially complex analysis to the integers and primes) but the homework sets involve a lot of laborious bounding.
Take any number theory course given by Mazur --- that is, if you love the algebraic side. Die-hard analysts probably wouldn't have liked this rendition of analytic number theory compared to previous years' (granted, Harvard doesn't seem to have many of those anyway...).
A very nice introduction to number theory.
Prof. Mazur is clear and accessible, and the material is great (everyone loves the zeta function!)
The subject is miraculous--the questions being addressed are extremely basic while the simplest techniques that answer them are extremely fancy and unexpected. It thereby gives many ways to explain to even middle-schoolers why the fancy techniques are useful.However, the subject isn't at all understood well, so the actual power of what you learn is sometimes disappointing compared to other math classes--there is no grand theorem at the end that suddenly explains almost everything like what you may get for the topics studied in something like math 123.Lectures go fast, so it helps to be able to follow algebraic manipulations quickly.
Arul's lectures are awesome!
This class is very fast-paced and covers many major results and current developments in a beautiful and popular field of mathematics.
If Arul teaches the class, take it. He is a great lecturer, generates incredible enthusiasm in his students, and he is a preeminent mathematician in the field of Analytic Number Theory. It is absolutely inspiring to take a class with Arul. He is very understanding to students' schedule constraints, and he gives extensions whenever it is necessary. He also makes himself available in his office whenever you need to meet with him. You will learn a lot of modern analytic number theory in this course.
Analytic number theory is extremely interesting and Arul is a fantastic professor.
It's such an exciting topic, and even if you're more interested in the algebraic stuff (which I currently am), it's still a good gateway into the more abstract stuff (like zeta functions for curves and algebraic analogs of the problems in class) to get your hands dirty with the classical tools and gadgets.
