Babak is a great person in and out of class. The class itself isn't too difficult, and lectures + homework follow the textbook for the class.
If you need this course, you should take it. The material was good, but the book was terrible.
Great class that teaches you all sorts of techniques for solving problems that are applicable to science and engineering. Though it's not always apparent when something will be useful, it is the coolest thing to see these techniques creep in in physics classes. Babak is also amazing! Such a nice guy, so helpful. Homework is pretty short but really helps you to understand the material. The textbook isn't great but Babak writes nice lecture notes.
This is a great course and Babak is an awesome teacher. I would strongly encourage anyone in physics to consider taking this, as it definitely provides theory and background for topics that come up again and again in physics.
Great class for physics or applied math people!
Absolutely take it.  By course's end, you'll actually know how to calculate things using complex analysis.
This is a great course.  You will learn a lot of useful math (working with complex numbers, neat integration techniques, differential equations, etc.) - and not just the applications, but also the underlying theoretical stuff - without having to work to hard.  In my opinion every physics concentrator (and probably anyone else who's planning on using a lot a math for whatever it is they do) should take this course.
Course, which covers variety of interesting and useful topics and which doesn't become too complicated. Lectures are enjoyable and intensive.
This is a very useful class for physicists and engineers, similar to applied math 104/105 but a lot less plug and chug. Well taught by this prof, and not too difficult in terms of grading.
If the topics are interesting or relevant to you (which is likely if you are a Physics concentrator), then this is a great class that won't take over your life.
This course offers a nice mix of the theoretical basis for methods and techniques in complex and real analysis, while also motivating them with their applications. It was a really enjoyable class overall.
This class gives you all the useful tools you need to for mathematical physics. It isn't a huge time-commitment, but be prepared to do very analysis-y problems.
Very useful course, especially for math/physics majors.  The methods taught in the class are directly applicable to more advanced physics coursework, and are by far the most comprehensive treatment of topics like variational caculus or Green's functions - which were often invoked in physics courses, but never rigorously explained.
This class covers a wide variety of topics that have interesting applications in physics and engineering. With that being said, the course can require a significant time commitment and does not utilize the best course materials. But, the teaching is very good, and it is possible to learn a lot from this course if you put in the time.
This course depends greatly on the instructor, who tends to change every year. Consider carefully the syllabus and keep in mind that the topics covered may seem a bit disjoint at times.
The course structure---emphasis on problem sets and a final project, with the opportunity to correct both---was conducive to the format of the course (which naturally doesn't possess a single topical emphasis) and aided very much in my overall learning. Lectures corresponded clearly to the given text, and they involved moderate participation (i.e. thinking) from students. Aruna did her best to answer any questions asked in class, and took a lot of time and effort to give meaningful feedback on problem sets. Dettman isn't a great text in my opinion, but it is good for the purposes of the class. (Plus, it's inexpensive.)
Very small class, very adaptive, highly dependent on lecturing professor.
Pretty useful material, but, in my opinion, a little slow-moving.
