Accessible if you are willing to work hard. Paul taught the class well and some of the material is quite interesting.
Although the topics covered in the course are very difficult, they are made manageable and interesting to students without great math backgrounds.
A well taught class. Consider taking it if you have real interest in the material, but there are some boring units.
Fantastic class - one of the best I've taken at college.  Not only is the material interesting (and it's incredibly useful to have a strong theoretical understanding of Black-Scholes), but Paul generates an infectious enthusiasm for the subject.
This is a great course for anyone interested in the theoretical math behind some applicable financial math (especially for students who want to become traders)
This was the third class I was fortunate to take with Paul Bamberg after 23a and b and will surely not be my last. Paul is a phenomenal teacher. He presents the material in an effective manner and also generates enthusiasm for the class. The assignments are the perfect level of difficulty and very rewarding to the student.He also manages to create a class that is very rigorous but not stressful. Outside of class he is approachable and fun. This is a great class and a must take as an Applied Math  Economics concentrator.
It's a very fascinating class, especially if you are interested in statistics and finance. It's level is way more than you will ever need in practice, but it gives such a thorough foundation, that I feel very comfortable in the field now.
On the whole a really good class.  You learn a lot about options theory and black scholes pricing while developing a lot of real analysis.  Since this was the first year of the class, there were some rough-patches relating to material presented.  However, Paul is really open with the students and listens to their feedback, so next year the course will be even better!
This class should be taken by economics concentrators. Paul is a fantastic teacher, very open and has a lot of intuitive explanations of mathematical terms. The course is about 1/2 theory and 1/2 application, which is is the perfect amount of math for someone interested in (even the quantitative side) of economics. Great mix, and a very relaxed course. Really cool to see this within the math department.
Very interesting stuff and Paul really cares about his students.
It will probably be more difficult in the future than it was this year.
If you want to really understand the Black-Scholes model in a way that every step is understood, this class is for you!
This is a great course. The financial element of the material is pretty minor and is really just motivation for the development of the math, but it ends up being a nice balance. The math itself is interesting, especially if you want to learn more rigorous definitions of probability concepts. Would be good as either an alternative or a complement to Stat 110.
it's a good class, with good problem sets and all, but I didn't learn a ton. I probably would have preferred to have just taken stat 110 and not bothered.
Sukhada was very good, but the course seemed to lack a clear trajectory - the order in which we learned the material seemed rather random. I honestly wish the class had been harder in some ways. There were a lot of concepts that repeated themselves, and having taken stat 110, I was already comfortable with some of the material. Specifically it would have been cool to see Lebesgue measure in more depth, and to reach Black-Scholes earlier to have time to grasp how it works.
This course is extremely repetitive if you've already taken Stat 110.
This class is a very interesting introduction into basic Lebegue integration and the concept of probability spaces, without being too intimidating. A good introductory course, very approachable.
Not particularly interesting or engaging
This was a great course! Sukhada is a wonderful educator, and is both patient and invested in her students' learning. Highly recommended!
This is a great class! It definitely rewards hard work and a real understanding of the material. It's a very structured course (the modules were very helpful), so if you work hard from week to week, you should not feel lost and instead feel as though you have a good grasp on the material. Sukhada is a kind and thorough instructor!
Take it! It's a fantastic course, and really gets at the heart of probability theory. Sukhada is a great, kind professor. Her exams are very fair. If you put the effort, you can easily get an A, which is a refreshing change of pace compared to many other courses! Also, if like me, you took Stat110 and are unsure of whether to take Math117, take it anyway. The approach is quite different, more mathematical, and makes you understand probability much better than Stat110.
Attempt many problems provided in the modules. They are really useful in reinforcing the course material.
