This class is really fun. I remember that during one of the introductory lectures, a student said he was taking this class to learn to be a better person, and I think this class actually does a good job of teaching why it is important to be a good person.
This class is super interesting but also much more difficult than I expected it to be. Professor Nowak is a genius, and his lectures are wonderful, but the problem sets extremely difficult and required ample office hour time.
It's a very interesting course and a good overview of evolutionary dynamics (taught by one of the greats).Note though that you'll be getting Martin's unique perspective on the field. He's a titan in the field, but I sometimes felt like his choices of what he decided to teach (e.g., focusing on the controversial quasispecies theory) and the perspective he chose to present was guided more by his own body of work than by careful reflection on what the students would most benefit from learning.But his unique perspective is a good one and should not serve as a deterrent from taking the course. Just a grain of salt for those taking this class to get a broad, multi-faceted overview of the field.
This course was interesting, but it had a lot of issues. Martin was a great lecturer, but the others did not do a good job of holding the attention of the class. Many of the guest lecturers seemed like they were repeating each other or topics that had already been covered in class. Additionally, the expectations for the final project were very unclear.
Interesting content. The best part is being introduced to the incredible community of researchers at the PED (Program for Evolutionary Dynamics).The psets, exam, and final project are not too wonderful.
Some of the material in lecture is really complicated, but not completely necessary to understand the key concepts in the course.
Loved this class.  Nowak is awesome.  Covers a much broader range of topics than you might imagine, so stays engaging.
This class was harder than I thought, because there isn't that much actual teaching. A lot you have to learn on your own.  The book is not that helpful, and there are only three psets to practice from (no practice exams, or strategic practice questions). The teaching staff is sort of distant. Definitely want to have a background in statistics before taking (generally, I think wait until junior year). I took it as a sophomore and was often lost in class (what is a stochastic process???). It moves fast and a lot of material is packed into each lecture without much review. That being said, it is an opportunity to take a class with the leading expert of evolutionary dynamics. You learn what "evolutionary dynamics" means. It is not that much work since there are only 3 psets total (one every two weeks), then a take-home exam, and then a final group project.
This is awesome. Professor Nowak is one of the best professors I have met. He is nice and he really teaches well. I absolutely liked the game theory component and the language component of this class. I would recommend this class to my fellow biology majors, because it really makes you think about biology differently.
The class is an in-depth look at game theory in evolutionary settings. The possibilities of research in the area are exciting, as this approach can be used to analyze a multitude of problems.
It's good to keep in mind that the problem sets occur early in the semester. The second half is mostly about listening to lectures about related research.
Math 153 is a wonderful course. Martin is a genius and the foremost expert on evolutionary dynamics in the world. It's also really interesting to hear from the multitude of guest lecturers throughout the semester.That being said, the work in this course is not simple. The 3 problem sets were fairly challenging and required significant time to complete. Definitely attend office hours, as the TFs' guidance is incredibly helpful in completing assignments. The take-home midterm was equally challenging; however, you're pretty much on your own for taking it.Overall, though, this is a really interesting class, and if you're at all interested in this topic, you should definitely take it!
Math 153 is an incredible class. You'll learn a ton about different methodologies to approach evolutionary dynamic problems like game theory, graph theory, etc. Nowak will inundate you with an insane amount of really cool math.
A very chill and interesting class.  If you're looking for a stress free class and are interested in math and game theory then this is a great choice.
Very interesting lectures that will give you a broad understanding of how mathematical modeling is used in studying evolution. The classes cover a large variety of subjects, so you will learn a lot about topics from disease, to language, to games. The importance of cooperation as a driver of evolution is emphasized, yet is often overlooked elsewhere. Grading of final project seemed a little harsh as it was not clear at all what was expected of us.
Math 153 was a very interesting course. Professor Nowak is such a brilliant man and also so accessible outside of class. He is so passionate about the course material and does a great job motivating the subject. Although the course is a bit disorganized in terms of the order in which topics are presented, all of the lectures are insightful and share important discoveries in the field of evolutionary dynamics. Problem sets are challenging but fair, and the midterm offers a solid test of comprehension of the material. The TFs in the course are incredible and go out of their way to make the course as enjoyable as possible. The final project is also a relatively stress-free way to end the semester. It may seem like busy work, but can also be a very valuable learning experience.
This is a super interesting course taught by THE researcher in the field. Nowak is an incredible lecturer and does a great job of presenting the math and also biology. The course is more of basic introduction to a variety of topics than an in-depth look, but you will definitely come away with a good understanding of problems in evolutionary dynamics. Would definitely recommend if you have an interest in how math can be applied to biology!
A really cool introduction to new fields in mathematical biology!
Great class! You'll learn about all the cutting-edge research in the field of evolutionary dynamics, including a lot of results that haven't even been published yet! The workload is good, but you'll still learn a lot about the field. Make sure you schedule enough time for the take-home midterm though, it will take longer than you think.
This class is inspiring. You will challenge yourself and grow as a result. This class gives you great exposure to the PED and a chance to learn from Prof. Nowak, a luminary in the field of evolutionary dynamics. Wide-ranging topics, evolution of cooperation, language, etc. Harder for non-math concentrators, especially without Stat and some Python experience. That being said, there were so many office hours so, apart from the take home exam, this class was manageable. Takes time, but manageable and you learn a lot. Final project also a great chance to explore a topic of your interest, and it's a group project, so you can work with your friends.
Nowak tells some interesting stories in lecture, and the biology facts referenced in the course are particularly fascinating.
Good, interesting class that is also not too difficult
Very interesting lecture topics. Novak has many entertaining stories to share.
Martin Nowak is a very engaging professor and obviously top in his field. More importantly, he is very nice and open to talking with you and is very open to engaging in further dialogue about the field/his work!
Math 153 is a great course! The work load is mainly concentrated at the beginning of the course and the content is interesting and presents a new way to look at the world. Prof. Nowak is wonderful (a literal world expert on so many aspects of mathematical biology) and the TFs were wonderful and supportive. The final project was really fun and understand the challenges in the field.
This class is the best class I have taken at Harvard. Take this class, especially if you are interesting in exploring evolution from a mathematical perspective. This class has confirmed by interesting in exploring this topic. Additionally, Professor Nowak is a great lecturer with a lot of cool and interesting anecdotes.
This is an excellent course, if only because the material is utterly fascinating and Prof. Nowak is remarkable. The problem sets could use some work, and the final project is rather open and unclear, but the class itself is definitely worth taking.
Very chill class, and you learn some really cool things!
There is no reason not to take this course. I was consistently impressed by the dedication of the TFs, and they helped explain tough concepts to us. The material is extremely interesting, and gives you insight into the process behind research as well as the actual mathematical modeling involved. I recommend taking a probability course and a stochastic matrices course before taking this, however.
This is an interesting class, and you can learn a lot if you put sufficient time into it. The first four weeks are a bit brutal with long and sometimes complicated problem sets, but it eases up after that. The lectures also sometimes feel a bit disjointed, as Nowak lets a lot of his grad students/postdocs give lectures. Overall, though, it's a good and relaxed introduction to the field. Nowak and his lab are at the forefront of this field, and if you want to get into research in this area as an undergrad, this class is a must.
This is a great course!  Be warned -- though it does not say it, Statistics 110 is definitely a pre req.  The final project is actually really cool, the TFs and prof really do take your viewpoints and ideas seriously, and Novak is absolutely the best ever.
Martin Nowak is a genius and the group of TFs that he has for this course are excellent. While the material is tough, it is also extremely interesting and rewarding to understand.
This class is a must-take because of Prof. Nowak.
take it.
The lectures by Nowak are super interesting; the others by TFs/guest lecturers are somewhat less so (but still interesting). Go to all classes. Make sure to choose a project that you're really interested in because it can be a great opportunity to get your feet wet in the field in a low-pressure environment if you use it well.
If you are interested in the topics covered, definitely take this course. Martin Nowak is a pioneer of the field and an engaging, not to mention extremely friendly, lecturer. The TFs are all very helpful in their office hours and the final project is a great way to show off what you have learned and let the faculty know what topics students are interested in.
Oliver is the best. Make sure to go to him with any questionss
The material is fascinating, and Prof. Novak's work is at the forefront of every field from sociology to cancer research. The class itself is horribly organized, the PSets are really really really really bad (don't expect to understand what they're asking for- you'll need the TFs to walk you through every step of every PSet), and there is no structure to the class (each lecture is on a completely different topic). That said, all of the topics covered are really interesting and Prof Novak has some really unique approaches to a wide range of problems. The final project was cool. Take only in preparation for 243, if you're interested in doing a research project with PED.
Great course. Pick your final project partner wisely. And pick your topic wisely. The final project is more involved than you might think. Otherwise, you learn A TON and it's SUPER interesting and Nowak is an amazing lecturer. The TFs are also really helpful and care about your learning-- TAKE IT!
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Nowak is great, the material is fascinating, interdisciplinary, and cutting-edge, and the assignments are fun. I'd recommend having Stat 110 or some other knowledge of probability beforehand. Definitely take it!
The problem sets are challenging but really interesting, and the lectures are fascinating. Martin is probably the most brilliant human I've ever listened to in my life, so in that sense it is totally worth taking this class. However, the final project structure is kind of annoying, and I frankly would rather just have more problem sets. I also felt like the guest lectures were generally over my head and didn't add much value, but maybe that's because the class is full of geniuses and I'm not one of them. Either way, definitely a worthwhile course.
Was a good class, the material is fascinating.
This class is a good course. Dr. Nowak is a genius and a titan in the field and it's really awesome to be in a small-ish class and to hear from him. Structurally, the course has its challenges. If the problem sets are still all bunched at the beginning of the semester, then try to make sure your september isn't too crazy because the problem sets can be a handful. Some of the things you just can't really do without going to office hours and asking why your mathematica code is not working. There aren't too many examples of really anything to work off of and that's a challenge too. With all that said, great course, and it was very chill after 4 weeks. No midterm and only a final project meant it was really honestly not too bad as long as you didn't stat your project at the last second.
This is a truly wonderful class. If you are at all interested in mathematical modeling of evolution, you MUST take this class. I'm really glad they added TFs and expanded this class, as it was very fun to take. Martin gives great lectures, and he's truly the leading scientist in this field. The TFs are so nice, and they help you with anything you need. This course is a great way to become a part of the PED family.
The course material is super interesting, and the math is not very difficult. Martin is a great lecturer and hilarious. I would highly recommend at least shopping the course and seeing if you like the first two lectures, which are pretty representative of the course overall.
Martin Nowak is fascinating, and the PED as a whole does really interesting work. Take the class and get exposed to all the things math modeling can be applied to!
This is a great class if you have ever been interested in biology, but felt it was missing the descriptive rigor present in more mature fields.
An interesting introduction to mathematical biology, but can be rather dry at times
The class is great. Professor Nowak is an expert in the subject which is clear from the walls in PED covered with articles about his work. The problem sets reinforced key ideas from lectures and introduced new and interesting concepts. The workload was not too bad. Just make sure you get to work on the final project early enough, so you are not scrambling to get it done.
Pretty easy if you have math background. But if you take the class you should be taking it for Martin! He's the best.
This class is amazing. Even if you feel like you're not that great at math, take this class because it's a cool way to get some math exposure relatively easily.
Professor Nowak is great and the class covers a very interesting potpourri of material; however, there is significant time spent on initial, more boring, basic material. Psets/the final project are not hard/don't take a lot of time, but the pset questions are sometimes unclear, making them more time consuming than need be.
You cover a lot of material, but the psets are pretty hard and basically impossible to do without substantial office hour guidance. Once you get through it you do well, but getting through it is the hard part.
This is a good course if you are interested in how evolutionary processes are currently being analyzed. One reason you might not want to take this course is that the course is fairly easy and some more advanced flavors of it might fit you better. Yet it is a good experience to see some great people of PED in action.
painfree and awesome people teaching
You must take this class! It's one of things one must try in life before dying.
The problem sets are pretty difficult for the level they said the class was, and knowledge of programming would be very helpful. You cannot drop any problem sets so there wasn't much flexibility. The final project could be good but make sure you find something you're interested in.
It is absolutely mindblowing. I loved it. If you are interested in evolution, this is not only a superb class, but should also be a requirement!
You will discover that you can model things in biology without knowing anything in biology!
This was an excellent course taught by an excellent professor. Recommend without reservations!
Take it. It's really interesting and definitely not time demanding.
Absolutely the best course at Harvard! It's always incredibly interesting and so much fun hearing Martin talk about the evolution of cooperation - he is the most inspiring professors I've ever seen. The TFs are also outstanding and helpful. Highly recommended course!
This course exposed me to mathematical evolution and its uses in both biology as well as a range of other broad subjects. The course is very laid back and has many guest lectures that are very enjoyable, so it's great to learn interesting subject matter in this course but not in a stressful or finicky way.
Take this class if you have any interest in mathematical biology! It is fascinating, rewarding, and fun. Professor Nowak is not only at the top of the field; he is an engaging lecturer with an infectious passion for the material.
The material is absolutely fascinating. The class could use a little more structure. I found the problems sets to be fairly challenging.
Martin Nowak is one of the world's leading authorities on evolutionary dynamics, and more generally, on mathematical biology. Even if you already know bits and pieces of population genetics, game theory, linguistic, or other topics covered in the course, it's very nice to see Prof. Nowak's extremely clear and concise explanations of the main idea behind what can sometimes be difficult and abstract concepts in evolutionary dynamics. At the end of the course, you have the chance to do your own research project, which is a great way to determine if you have further interest in the field. Take the course.
This class is great. If anything, take it for the research project at the end, and the exposure to novel uses of mathematics in biology.
A great class to sample the kinds of things mathematical biologists do.  Note that the course favors concepts over rigor, while providing a compelling survey of Prof. Nowak's amazing work.
This is a really interesting class with a great professor. It is an easy way to fulfill a math requirement, but still very worthwhile.
Good survey class for topics in mathematical evolutionary biology. Professor Nowak is an engaging speaker and the guest lectures cover a range of interesting research areas.
This class is amazing!! You will learn so much about very interesting topics. Prof Nowak is a great lecturer and is full of enthusiasm. TF's are great and will help you out.
This course leads students to think about the fundamental principles underlying the evolution of specific biological systems. Anyone interested in mathematical biology, and in particular evolution, should take this course.
The workload is fairly light, and after the first six problem sets, the only remaining assignment (for the second half of the semester) is the final project. Some knowledge of programming will be useful, though the course walks you through how to use both mathematica and python. Professor Nowak's lectures are interesting, as is the material of the course (quite a bit of evolutionary game theory). Problem sets aren't too bad as long as you start them a day or two early.
This class is not too difficult, and you get to learn about a lot of cool topics in mathematical biology. The lecture topics can be rather disjointed, however.
If you are interested in approaching the major questions of biology from a new perspective, or simply like to go to engaging lectures, take this course! The workload is exceedingly moderate. If you have a solid math background, it will likely be a breeze. Martin is a really engaging lecturer and his passion for evolutionary dynamics is contagious.
Fascinating class taught by a highly enthusiastic and incredible professor. Not too stressful, and if you like math or modelling, this is the class to take.
Extremely interesting material and professor and with barely any opportunity cost--there is no reason not to take this.
This is a fantastic course! The professor is very knowledgeable and gives engaging lectures, and the material itself is quite interesting. This class is great for people who like both math and biology and want to see how they interconnect.
Don't wait to get started on the final project! The lecturers are pretty awesome, and you get introduced to some really interesting topics.
Do not expect to see the professor more than five times in the whole semester, but the guest lectures are really cool! The class is a great introduction to the cool field of Mathematical Dynamics/Biology. The lectures usually do not correspond with the problem sets, but the problem sets correspond well with the reading in the textbook so they are challenging but manageable.
Take it! Nowak is fantastic and brilliant and picks out the best material to teach. If you are good at math, it's also super easy. Try to do research at the end if you can think of a good topic; evolutionary dynamics is new enough that you actually have a hope of doing an interesting model that hasn't been tried before, and it's pretty rewarding.
A great course for any biologist interested in topics of math applied to biology or mathematicians interested in applications to biolgy
This class is an interesting foray into evolutionary dynamics using dynamical systems theory to a large extent. The work itself is easy. If your background is solid in dynamical systems, perhaps reading some of Nowak's more recent papers would teach you more insightful ideas. If your mathematical background is generally strong (especially in analysis), then consider 243 or a more advanced mathematical/systems biology class instead. Otherwise, this class may be perfect for you!
This was a great course. A particular strength of the course was the applicability of the material and the fact that the course emphasized material on the research frontiers of mathematical biology.
really amazing course, mostly because of how amazing nowak is. his lectures are fantastic, and he makes the material extremely engaging. there are a bunch of open questions that you will think of and nowak will be happy to discuss them after class, which is lots of fun and a great opportunity.
Lots of extremely cool topics, manageable math difficulty and workload, flexible and fun project at the end. A couple of the lectures were about some of the coolest things I have heard in classes and now I want to do more research on them.
Martin is amazing, and this class is ridiculously cool! It helps to make study groups, but it's definitely one of the more doable and enjoyable math classes here - and it allows you to check out something you'd probably never think about otherwise.
An AMAZING learning experience with very accessible professors. Highly recommend.
Martin is really enthusiastic about the material and the TF is a great resource in completing the assignments. I will advise that you find a P-Set buddy early in the course since all assignments and projects in the course can be done in a group.
The course is interesting. Prisoner's dilemma makes up a huge part of what I remember the course to be about. Reading the book would probably give you the same information as what was in the course, just in less detail.
Fun, interesting, and chill course! The problem sets were fun. Professor Nowak gives great lectures, and the TF is helpful and nice. The material mostly focuses on applying evolutionary dynamics (aka differential equations and game theory) to biology, but the techniques learned are widely applicable to a broad range of topics, such as economics. Economics majors should really take it!
Great, reasonable math course, although since you're basically applying the same principles over and over again, can get a bit repetitive.
You will find this class interesting if you want to know more about how processes that occur in nature and biology are not as random as they sometimes seem. We had to use Mathematica and Matlab for some of the problem sets, which I found difficult having never used either before this class, even with a tutorial for each. The problem sets can be quite challenging and I recommend forming a problem set group with a few other students.
If you have any interest in some or all of the topics of this course, I would highly recommend it. The course essentially consists of Martin teaching the content of his textbook "Evolutionary Dynamics" (which is a good thing - the material is fascinating and Martin is a very enthusiastic lecturer). Each section of the textbook describes some application of evolutionary dynamics, from the dynamics of HIV to game theory and stochastic processes to the evolution of human language and culture. There are also several guest lectures from various researchers in PED throughout the semester. These lectures are a really nice way to get a sense for the research currently being done in this field (also, if you're particularly interested in some section of the class, there will almost certainly be someone you can talk to about doing research in that area). The workload of the class is quite relaxed but you will learn a lot.
Professor Nowak is really cool. Fewer guest lectures and more of him would be nice. The class is awesome though.
Use the textbook to supplement the lectures.
