If you are into physics or have an interest in some basic functional analysis and a more rigorous treatment of Diff. Eq., it is a must-take. However, the presentation is a little confusing and you have to spend some time on your own figuring out not how the math works, but WHY we do certain things.
if you are deciding whether to take this or am105b take this, the intuition behind difeqs and hilbert space methods that you learn in this course is extremely helpful regardless of if you are a physics, math, or engineering major
This class is especially useful if you're interested in physics.  Taking it simultaneously with 15c really improved my understanding of the material in both classes.  Proofs are a lot easier than 23a/b.
This is possibly the most important math class for physics concentrators to take.  You will get a solid foundation in differential equations and Hilbert space mathematics that is unavailable in any other course.  Definitely take it.
This class has a good mix of theory and applications and teaches you a good amount of differential equations (and partial ones!), and analysis (Hilbert spaces!). Harder and more theoretical than AM105b.
If you are a physicist and like math, take this class. Its like Math 23c, but easier than Math 23. Very useful, especially applicable to Waves and Quantum Mechanics
This is a more theoretical alternative to 105b in the sense that you cover some more of the algebraic topics touched on in 105b in greater depth. For me this was useful to really give me a picture for how to go about solving other linear differential equations in the future, and an appreciation of the theory that goes into it. But this class is also still strongly computational; the problem sets are still boundary-value problems like you might see in 105b. I'm sure that it's going to be great next semester. Interesting material, great professor, not to difficult a workload, and a more theoretical bent than 105b.
It's not bad.  It's easy to get a good grade because it's not too difficult.  Problem sets are very doable.
Paul teaches differential equations well.
If you just want to learn how to solve differential equations, this class may not be right for you. This class spends a large amount of time that certain differential equations can be solved and that their standard solutions are actual solutions.
This is an excellent course in DiffEQs. It not only tackles how to solve many differential equations, but it also explains why you are doing the things you are doing, which is more than what other DiffEQ courses do in the Applied math Department.
Paul does a great job with this class.
Fantastic class. Paul is a great lecturer, and really cares about your understanding of the material. If you're at all interested in differential equations and applied analysis, take this class. If you're theoretically inclined, don't think twice about taking this over AM 105 - Math 110 is a far better option, and you will be better off for taking it.
Math 110 is an excellent course if you need to learn about differential equations but don't want to spend a whole semester plugging and chugging away. The theory introduced in this course was most interesting, in my opinion, so it's important to have an interest in the viewing differential equations as a objects rather than means-to-ends.
You'll learn a lot of cool things, and Paul is an entertaining lecturer. However, be warned that to actually learn to solve many differential equations, you have to go beyond the bounds of the course.
If you just want to solve differential equations without worrying too much about proving things, you probably should really take the Applied Math version of this class; after the first few weeks there's a lot of proving required. If you like proofs or study math (in which case you probably like proofs, but ok), this seemed like a solid course in differential equations.  Plus Paul is a reasonable instructor, so that's good.
Overall a very good course! If you want to know how the whole differential equations and what not actually works this is a really good class to start!
It's a good class.  The material is interesting, the problem sets and exams are fair.  But it's not easy - it does take a lot of time to sit down and make sure you understand things. There's a lot of material to learn.
Not a ton of work compared to Math 25, and you learn some really useful stuff.
great way to learn about to go about solving differential equations and at the same time enjoy an interesting course in mathematics.
Take this class if you want to get a light introduction to analysis and some good reinforcement to techniques you use in Physics 15c or 143a.  The lectures might be a bit boring at times but there will be no surprises.
sometimes boring and hard to see practical applications
Loved this course. Paul is a very supportive and caring teacher. I felt like it was a safe environment to ask questions in and really dare to dive into the material. Make sure to use all of the resources available to you and you'll do quite well!
This is among the most entertaining math classes offered at Harvard. It had some truly excellent problem sets, and was taught with a lovely sense of humor. The material is relevant both to physics and to other fields, and the way the material was taught connected to some useful ideas about integration and convergent series, as well. On the whole, a great course.
This is an extremely well-organized course that requires you to keep up with the material, but is very doable. This course will teach you how to solve differential equations, as well as some theory of differential equations. Probably one of the most applied courses in the math department. Paul also tends to use differential equations that have applications in physics, which complements a quantum mechanics course.
If you took 23 and liked Paul's teaching style, you'll love 110.
Very interesting material, ideal for Physics and Math joint concentration requirement.
Take this class only if you have taken Math 23 and the style agreed with you.  Otherwise you may be lost.
You learn differential equations very well.
Psets are much better with a friend, especially the ones with fiddly algebra bits. I wish there were more applications, but I also wish there was more explanation of the concepts...
This class is great if you are a physics concentrator or a mass concentrator. If you're not one of those, I would not take the class. If you do not like proofs then this class is not for you.
This class is really for physics concentrators. As a non-physics concentrator, I seemed to have lost the point of what we were studying. Paul is an extremely nice person, but the lectures don't introduce things in a systematic way, which can be really annoying because you feel like you are just picking up random knowledge. The hilbert space stuff that we do at the end of class seems to be what my physics friends are studying in 15b but I really don't see any application of this material outside this course.
Math 110 is a quintessential math class for physics students. Most of physics comes in the form of differential equations, and this course covers the relevant concepts that could have been brushed aside in these physics courses. Sometimes, the assignments are straight up grinding through derivatives and integrals, but most of the questions are very helpful in helping you understand differential equations in general.
This is a great course with a lot of interesting applications.  Paul is an excellent lecturer and has put a lot of thought into organizing the course in an intuitive manner.  The material, while not easy, is made fairly accessible, especially if you are willing to work hard.  While I have obviously not taken AM 105, if you are debating I would strongly recommend this class.
This class is a useful introduction to the study of differential equations, especially if you are interested in seeing some of the more rigorous theory behind the subject. If you are a physics student who wants a little bit more knowledge of differential equations (how to solve them, how to set them up, how to manipulate properties of the solution, how to solve boundary-value problems with Fourier series, etc.), then this class might be useful. It would reasonable to take this as a fifth class if the rest of your schedule is not too demanding.
This is a great course in explaining ways to solve ordinary and partial differential equations, with rigorous proofs as well as calculations.
It is a very neat course for physics! It definitely helped me understand quantum mechanics and electromagnetism. It is not too difficult, and you will learn all the differential equations from AM105 plus some real analysis (Hilbert space theory, which is the foundation of quantum mechanics). PSets and exams are very reasonable.
It is a great course.
I was someone who wanted to learn about differential equations as a useful tool, but I also had a background in theoretical math, so I wanted to take Math 110 instead of AM 105. In the end, I don't know if I realized how theory-based Math 110. I mean, of course it is. It's in the math department. But don't necessarily expect to learn how to "use" differential equations in the real world. If that's your aim, the applied version might be better. What you end up learning in this course is quite an interesting look at the theory of differential equations and a few applications to physical problems. You end up learning a lot of cool real analysis tools. Paul's lectures are often clear, but the organization of the course as a whole can be unclear, and often I didn't really understand why we were doing things.
Final was fair but challenging so make sure to spend quite a bit of time studying/ making sure you fully understand post quiz 3 material!
the class takes some work but its totally worth it. Paul is a great professor.
This class is great if you are interested in physics. Paul is really good at creating enthusiasm for the physics concepts related to the material covered in class. However, if your background in physics is somewhat shaky, it might be harder to appreciate the material. By this, I don't mean that the class will be harder, it's just that, for example, you may not get exactly why that particular diff. equation is so cool etc. So, if you are interested in physics, definitely take this class. If you are not, I would recommend taking this class as well, but maybe plan to spend some extra time to understand the physics involved (it won't matter for the final exam/grades though)
Math 110 is much more rigorous than I expected (goofy me) -- it really didn't feel like the most applicable differential equations class that one could take.  Coming out of 21b, I felt quite unprepared for this course until the very end when everything started to finally kind of work itself together in my mind -- be prepared for a lot of frustration if you haven't taken 23+ in the Math department.  Brendan and Matt were a great team in teaching this class, and accordingly I learned a ton.  I'm sure the reader will too if they opt to take the course.  I just warn the reader to know what they're getting into, as this kind of wasn't really the class I was looking for when I signed up.
I am not sure if he will be teaching it next year, but honestly, Brendan was great. The class is fun, rewarding, and not very painful. The grading was more than reasonable - it was incredibly generous. I would recommend this class (or any similar class) to someone interested in doing physics derivations.
This was an interesting course. You learn about the theory behind differential equations, but don't expect to be able to solve crazy weird differential equations after this. You will understand how Hilbert Spaces (mostly just Lebesgue Square Integrable function vector space - L^2) are useful in differential equations, though a few of the operators you study - Laplace, Legendre, Bessel and Hermite, come up in Quantum and other areas of physics - so it's cool to use this knowledge in other courses. Brendan is a good teacher, though his lecture slides were very dense on occasion - making them tiring to read. Homework isn't dire - though occasionally there are weird problems.
This class should be trivial to anyone who has a good linear algebra and real analysis foundation. Most of the class is spent on reviewing concepts from those two fields, with a little extra on how to solve second order linear differential equations, as well as diving into Fourier series, Legendre polynomials, Hermite polynomials, and Bessel curves.
All of my friends are not physicists -- therefore this course does not have much value.
Useful material.
This is a fine differential equations class. It was small, so I was able to ask many questions during class and make sure I knew what was going on. The Holland textbook is very readable, and combined with the homeworks and Paul's course notes, you can follow along with this material without too much difficulty.
If Grant Murray is the CA, then don't take this course. Otherwise, Paul is amazing and his lectures were great! The material is super interesting and widely applicable (although most examples came from physics --- not surprising since that's Paul's specialty!). I really liked the course overall (apart from the section component with Grant Murray) and strongly recommend it because of how great Paul is!
If you're a physics major, I highly recommend this class. The material is really cool on its own but It'll help with quantum and Bamberg is fantastic.
