Make sure you take this course with a professor who covers the material carefully - otherwise it is easy to use the results without understanding them.
This material is central to the development of mathematics in the 20th century, and really is not to be missed out on. But take it with a different instructor if possible.
Hatcher is an awesome book and people should learn algebraic topology!  Prof. Damjanovic is not a particularly distinguished teacher, but the class will likely be taught by someone else anyway.
The class is a great introduction to algebraic topology, which is a fascinating subject. Hiro is a great teacher; he motivates everything really well.
This class can be very difficult. Make sure you are interested in the material enough to work hard on it, specially on the later topics of the course. Nonetheless, I found the class very rewarding.
Algebraic topology is great. If you've ever heard other math people talking about homology and cohomology and wanted to learn what they are, this is a good course to do it. Also good if you liked learning about the fundamental group in 131. Beware, it can be very difficult and time-consuming (it's a grad class, after all)!
The prof changes frequently, so check out who's teaching it. But no matter who's teaching, the material is really awesome. Good first "real math course".
Hiro is a wonderful teacher, and spreads enthusiasm for a beautiful topic.  You will learn algebraic topology and it will be fun.
This is an excellent class, the lectures were always engaging, and the problem sets were very helpful practice. You will get very good at computing topological invariants.
Hiro's a fabulous lecturer who does a great job of providing intuition for all of the concepts he covers and is super accessible outside of class. The problem sets were a bit on the easy side at times, but beyond that it was a great class!
This is a difficult but rewarding class.  Would recommend, especially if Kronheimer is teaching it.
algebraic topology is da bomb. especially with kronheimer, who taught it at a very down-to-earth, geometric level. thank god since some of this stuff seems so crazy. anyway you get to learn some awesome new words and randomly prove some ridiculous stuff out of nowhere with the words, which is really fun.
The material is extremely difficult and technical--almost every week there was a proof at the level of complexity of the hardest of the semester for any other math course I had taken before. It is also presented very quickly. Make sure you are fast enough at understanding things (or take very good notes and have lots of time to go over them afterwards) that you can keep up.
Algebraic topology is awesome. Also, Prof. Kronheimer is a brilliant mathematician and a solid lecturer.
Kronheimer is excellent.  The course was comprehensive and well-structured.
Take any class with Professor Kronheimer! His lectures are wonderful and will allow you to understand any material.  The problem sets are difficult but solving the problems is great fun and helps a lot with the material.  Also, algebraic topology is an amazing and essential life skill.
Math 231a was the perfect blend of interesting material, clear and instructive lectures, and well-thought-out homework assignments.  I would definitely recommend this class!
Pretty difficult, but worth it. Professor Kronheimer is a very good lecturer, although he moves ridiculously fast.
If Prof. Hopkins decides to teach "Advanced Astrophysical Biological Cuisine, Blind Basket Weaving and Sanskrit through Interpretive Dance: A Marriage of Three Worlds", take it -- Take anything this man teaches.
First half is very cool, second half is probably better if you really enjoy abstract math for its own sake.
Professor Hopkins is very nice but very confusing.
It is a good class.
Hopkins is very engaging and a ton of fun to learn from. If you are the type of student who learns more from incredibly structured lectures, this may not necessarily be the class for you. As for the material, attending office hours and talking to your TF helps. As accessible as Professor Hopkins tries to make it, it IS very difficult material you are learning, especially if you are learning it for the first time. Make sure you do you homework on time so you don't fall behind.
Great course. Very interesting material and fun.
The material is pretty cool.
There's a lot of interesting and important material in this class. It also serves as a good introduction to category theory. Unfortunately, Hopkins is quite disorganized, and his lectures are frequently hard to follow. There are many cool homework problems. It is essential to make an effort to not fall behind.
Just take it. Hopkins is awesome, and the material comes up everywhere.
The material was pretty cool but it was easy to get lost in the class.
Algebraic topology is a beautiful subject.
The material is fascinating, and foundational to further study in geometry or topology.
Algebraic topology is really cool, and I enjoyed doing the problem sets. Professor Hopkins' lectures were easy to understand and fun to sit through, if occasionally disorganized.
Professor Hopkins is really fun to listen to; he gives great lectures and is a very cool person
The material is very hard for those few who are not the math department geniuses. Under Hopkins, be prepared for the class to have a heavily algebraic slant--and decide if you want that. Try the class--Hopkins is great--but don't shy away from dropping it or auditing if you find the material hard and you don't have the time.
Great course; loved the material and Hopkins' presentation of it was delightful.
The material in this course seems to be very important in mathematics. The class was somewhat of a mixed bag. Problem sets were good, though often posted very late or not at all. The deadlines were enforced less than jaywalking laws in Cambridge. Lectures were sometimes rather disorganized, and we had substitutes for a couple of weeks which didn't help. Professor Hopkins is a pretty entertaining lecturer though.
Hopkins is super fun.
very fun lectures.
Hopkins is a very helpful professor, and teaches individuals very well.  If you're willing to put in the effort to learn the material well, he will teach you well.
Professor Hopkins is absolutely hilarious. Take a class with him before you graduate. And take quotes during lectures, you'll thank yourself later. :)That said, be cautious about taking graduate courses. The material is much more sophisticated than in undergraduate courses, so be prepared to be lost during lectures and confused while working on homework. However, the reward is great once you finally understand a concept. If you can handle the initial frustration, grad courses are awesome, and topology in particular is very, very pretty.
Very interesting and useful class.
pretty standard first semester algebraic topology course, from an exceptional professor. mike hopkins is a legend
Algebraic topology is a fascinating subject and its ability to produce easy and elegant proofs to difficult claims seems somewhat magical. It really puts the material from your point-set topology in context, which can often be dry when learned on its own. That said, algebraic topology take a while to get the hang of. The first few weeks just seem like arbitrary constructions, and only a few weeks in does the theory of homology start coming together and making sense. Mike Hopkins is a great guy and very amusing to listen to. However, he seemed a lot more focused on his research this semester and frequently came to class unprepared, which made lectures quite disorganized.
Mike clearly knows a lot about the subject, but on the other hand he doesn't give the cleanest presentation of the material, so be prepared to clarify some stuff on you own / go to OHs
Mike is a great lecturer, this is a great class, and algebraic topology is very cool.
This course provides a decent introduction to algebraic topology. Mike Hopkins is a very nice guy, and he's absolutely hilarious during lecture. Nevertheless, he is a poor lecturer and often comes to class unprepared. He's disorganized when he teaches, and he rambles on about topics that either aren't related or are related but he never explains why. His problem sets are long, hard, and often riddled with mistakes. Take this class at your own risk.
Hopkins is a rock star topologist, so taking this course from him was awesome. Don't miss a chance to learn topology from him.
Take it. Algebraic topology is just wicked cool. Hopkins is a bit disorganized, but still great. Very funny, and he knows the subject better than anyone. It's the kind of thing where, if I become a math professor years from now, I will name drop and say "I got to take algebraic topology with Mike Hopkins".
If you are considering taking a graduate math class, reviews probably will not sway you much either way. But I can say that Hopkins is both an informative and hilarious lecturer, and I enjoyed his problem sets.
Professor Hopkins is one of the best algebraic topologist in the world. His insight on how to see the homology and cohomology group really helps you to gain a solid understanding of the subject. His design on problem set, though easy, is often extremely thoughtful and worth some exploration. I would highly recommend this class to anyone who is interested in topology.
Hopkins' math 231a is quite fun.  To learn the material, I had to basically read Hatcher on my own, as Hopkins' lectures tend to be rather disorganized, but the lectures were mighty fun nonetheless.
I think Professor Hopkins made this course a bit easier than it could have been, which might be a good thing, but I also think that as a result, I don't understand the material as well as I could have. As is usual for graduate classes, you'll get out exactly what you put into it.
Prof. Hopkins is a great lecturer, though appeared somewhat disorganized. Nevertheless I would recommend the class. There is a fair amount of work due to the length of the problem sets, but it's generally not terrible.
Be sure to read the corresponding part in the textbook in order to follow the class.
If you want to actually learn the material well and keep up, you should be prepared to do a lot of work on your own.
The second half of this course depends heavily on who is teaching it.  In the first half, we derive fundamental results in algebraic topology in a methodical manner, but the professor has much more freedom in the second half to study topics he finds interesting.  This course also provides a good introduction to category theory and some aspects of homological algebra.
