Easily the hardest assignments of any math class I've ever taken
Schemes is an extremely beautiful subject, as well as quite fundamental in modern mathematics. I recommend it highly. Beware, it may be a lot of work.
It is always hard to leave comments for higher-level math courses, as the quality of the course depends significantly on the instructor. Scheme theory itself is very important in mathematics, so it is important to learn the material well with a good instructor. I would only recommend this course if the instructor has a good reputation for lecture ability; otherwise, the lecturer can ruin your perception of scheme theory. Unfortunately, I was not wise enough to follow my own advise and my own intuition, and as a result, I had to sit through what is by far the worst class I have taken at Harvard. Sit through the first two lectures during shopping week; if your intuition tells you that you aren't going to enjoy the class, don't take it!
Schemes are awesome.  Whether I end up caring about schemes or not in the future, I'm really glad I took this course and got to learn this beautiful subject.  Hartshorne is less awesome, but I thought it was nice that Prof. Rapinchuk included several other references that we could use to figure things out.
it's pretty exciting to learn about what is apparently the basic framework of a lot of working mathematicians these days. it feels like learning a language, except that it's not always clear why you're defining these words...
Though this material has a steep learning curve, the eventual payoff is well worth it. Scheme theory is wonderfully rigorous! It also gives context to all of the seemingly disconnected theorems you learn in commutative algebra.
Schemes is a semester-long barrage of definitions with little motivation. It is also a famous and state-of-the-art topic. Take it if you dare.
You're gonna take it, like it or not. Rest assured that it's really freaking cool. Take it with Melody if you possibly can, or at least clamour for examples rather than representability theorems.
You know all those random, disconnected concepts you learn in commutative algebra?  It will all be made clear.  "Geometry of Schemes" is an appropriate name, but that moreover includes "Geometry of Rings" as a special case.
What a great class. Schemes courses are usually notorious for their abstraction, lack of motivation, and reliance on the parsimonious Hartshorne. This year, Melody mostly used Vakil's notes and Eisenbud-Harris, and it worked well. I felt that I gained insight into the geometry behind flat families, blowups, nonreduced schemes, and divisors that are buried behind algebra and formalism in texts. Melody is a great lecturer: always well-prepared, generous with motivation and examples, and very well organized in terms of material. The workload wasn't too bad either, but the course was more like a survey of many important ideas than a very thorough grounding in the foundations of algebraic geometry, and I think that for a really solid technical grounding one would have to go back through Hartshorne.
This course will be quite difficult, but you will learn a lot from it.
Very high time commitment.
You should take every class that Professor Gaitsgory teaches. You can't go wrong!
This was definitely my favorite course this semester. To be fair, I read Vakil up to Chapter 9, and the course covered up to around Chapter 12~14, but Tripathy's lectures cleared up all the things I was confused about, especially the commutative algebra parts. Generally he follows Vakil, but sometimes rearranges stuff and give arguments from a more higher point of view, which are really nice. You should probably know commutative algebra at the 221 level, but nothing more than that. Take this instead of 137 if you are confident with your algebra!
This class varies depending on who teaches it, but Arnav's version of this class fit very well with my way of learning. This might be different for other people!
Schemes are good.
Jay is the CA!!  He rulez!!
