This class is worth taking for the substantial access to really brilliant professors, and the wide variety of interesting topics covered. Writing the final paper is also a really enjoyable experience. The main downside is that with 2/3 of the professors as economists, the class is *very* economics-heavy. In particular, a huge amount of time is spent on individual preferences, group preferences, and revealed preference, on the order of 4 full lectures out of 12.
The course matches its description well. Other than that, try to have things to say during the discussion after each lecture--it makes the class better for everyone.
This is a fun way to get some exposure to very interesting primary literature in economics (and some in abstract mathematics) and an all-star cast of professors. There's a lot of freedom with the final paper and it can be as enjoyable as you can make it.
This course is a unique experience. It is broad and each part is well thought through. It is a joy to listen to such smart professors.
The professors are all awesome. They spent a lot of time going over the basics of the readings in class, which unfortunately limited the amount of interesting time.
Take the course if you have a strong background in Mathematics and want to learn application of models in the real world.
If you have the chance to take this course--DO. The teaching staff alone is reason to take the course. Thinking deeply about "models" with some of the most amazing minds on the Harvard faculty is not an opportunity to be missed.
This is a good course for people with a deep interest in economics.  Unfortunately it is not as multi-disciplinary as the course description suggests.  Coming from a STEM background does not seem to be enough to make the most out of this course.  The course is very much about learning how to think rather than learning anything in particular. I think it's a good course for intellectuals however I would have liked for the subject matter to be broader.
This was a course intended to have students (and professors!) think broadly about modelstheir intent, their contexts, their benefits, their limitationsand it achieved this goal very well. The course presented a healthy balance of theory and application in both economics and mathematics. Seeing various models presented in quick and scattered succession made for valuable implicit comparisons.
Entertaining course, lots of flexibility in terms of how much work you want to put in.
This year, it was a bit hard to see the overall point of the course, but each individual lecture was very interesting. You can really get a lot out of the final project if you enjoy your topic and speak with the professors about developing your paper. The expertise of the course's professors is second to none, and it was a pleasure to learn from three brilliant scholars this semester.
A fantastic opportunity to interact with renowned professors.
