Read the class content before the class.
Great course. It is a set of lectures by members of the PED, coupled with a semester-long independent research project. Good especially if you have a related idea that you want to develop. Also the workload is quite light, since you are entirely self-paced.
Very interesting class with great lecturers.  You get to see some really cool ideas.
This is a fun course for learning more about current research and engaging in some yourself. Be warned, though: self-direction and a pre-conceived notion of what type of research you'd like to do is very helpful, though not strictly necessary.
Good opportunity to undertake research and learn about cool research from experts in the field in a guest-lecture type format.
If you've taken Math 153 with Martin, then you'll probably love this course. There is only one lecture per week, and the projects are super interesting. This course helped me find my summer project and potential thesis.
It's a great class to take if you are trying to focus on other classes, or your own research. There is some interesting material, especially near the beginning of the course, but generally it's very mixed. There is no progression from one week to the next; you feel as though you are scratching the surface in terms of the mathematical sophistication.
Super easy way to get into research, and low time commitment other than keeping up with your research.
Martin is the best!
Martin Nowak and everyone at PED do really interesting and diverse research, and Math 243 is a great window into their world. There's something in the class for everyone, and it's also a great way to get into research yourself in their group.
This is a great opportunity to do real original research in pretty much any math-related topic! You also get to pair up with a graduate student/post-doc as a mentor, which is super helpful! The work that the PED does is really broad, and it's all really interesting!
Awesome course. Each week there's a fascinating lecture, and other than that, you just work on an independent research project. There's a lot of freedom in topic choice, and you can have as much or as little guidance as you want. If you're an undergraduate, definitely consider taking Math 153 first.
Wonderful class. The only work is a research project, which you can do on your own schedule. they have some really interesting research projects and provide a lot of guidance.
Take this class! There is literally no reason not to. PED has put significant work towards making learning about mathematical biology very easy for undergrads to do, even if you have a hard workload outside of class.
Excellent class. Explore your own research questions while hearing about current research projects in the field of evolutionary dynamics.
This is a good course, exposing students to a wide variety of research related to evolutionary dynamics, ranging in topic from online dating to peacocks to corporate boards to cancer to long fingernails. Who woulda thought. If you put in the time, you can emerge from the course with something that will later become publishable.
This is not a general 'lecture style' course in evolutionary dynamics or evolutionary game theory (the university sorely lacks such a course). It's great if one wants to get involved in research that is broadly related to evol. dynamics.
very easy going class, lots of interesting talks
Think hard about what topic you want to do and do regular work on it.
Very cool lectures each week.You have to do your research project on your own. Be prepared to be accountable only to yourself, and then have to hand in a big project at the end of the semester.
Evolutionary dynamics is an interesting field. The class mainly consists of guest lectures on current research topics. If you want to get most out of the class, I would read up some papers or reviews on the topic before the lecture itself.Also, the final project is a huge component of the class. Find something that you would find interesting fairly early into the semester. Your experience with the class will largely depend on  your project mentor. I had a great time with my mentor and I am fairly sure that most graduate researchers in PED are happy to help undergrads with their work.
Some of the topics may be interesting, but many of the talks will likely be so poorly structured or given at such an inappropriate level that you'll want to have an easy escape from the room (unfortunately not possible). The project is undefined and poorly structured. You'd probably benefit more from just going to talks in areas that interest you (outside of the context of a class) and collaborating with the Nowak group as suits your fancy. Biologists should be prepared for large doses of gross simplification by former physicists who don't seem interested in or cannot back up their assumptions (to be fair, many of the topics are very rooted in biology, but not all of them are).TL;DR: If you're exploring working with the Nowak lab or are the kind of person who derives pleasure from thought exercise unrooted in data, reality, or biological background, go for it.
Interesting lectures, hearing from experts doing groundbreaking research. In this course, your grade is essentially your final project, so start early
Evolutionary dynamics is a fascinating topic, and some really fantastic speakers come in to the course. However, there wasn't much discussion of the talks, making it difficult to learn much from them if you do not have an extensive background in both the field and in understanding papers. The research project can be very good, but relies entirely on your initiative and your luck in finding a good advisor.
Great class! The final project is very fun and rewarding, and you'll learn a lot. The lecture format is as a series of seminars given on various topics, so each class is completely different!
Very interesting course with a huge diversity of potential projects to work on.  If you have any kind of ideas about evolutionary dynamics, go take it! Most of the lectures are good (although there were a few duds), and Martin is very approachable/kind, on top of being brilliant.
i would recommend this course only if you are a) highly versed in statistical mechanics, b) already feel that you have a very very solid grasp of the research going on in this area, or c) don't care if you take a course where you learn anything and just want an easy time. there was literally zero work for the course other than the final project, which was a lot of work if you left it until the end but which was not well designed.
