The class is pretty tough and so are exams, but Meredith tries hard to help. The class will be better next time it's offered, I am sure. Stephanie and Robert won't be CAs again though - I could not have survived without their help.
Three problem sets a week can be very time consuming, but tests are easier than problem sets.
Don't take this class. Take 21a or Applied 21a. This is class is terribly organized with little support because its so small. The textbook could've been written by archimedes himself its so old,  unintelligible, and user unfriendly. There are three p-sets a week and they are too long and will definitely require going to the few office hours there are to understand. Lectures are rushed and unhelpful. Taking this class was the biggest mistake of my freshman fall. I did fine in the class, but it wasn't worth the misery. I can't believe you are still reading this. Run away. Run far away. And don't look back.
It's a tough class, but the CAs were great. There really isnt that much in terms of economic applications, so really choose between the two nased on schedule (read: 9am on monday wednesday friday is tough).
This course was pretty tough. I thought it would be easier than Math 21a and Applied Math 21, and it was probably more challenging then Applied and as challenging as the former. This is partially due to the teaching rather than the course material. Granted, this was the first time she taught the course (it will be better next year), but the concepts were over-complicated and often very hard to follow. Be ready to put in significant amounts of time to understanding the material and completing problem sets.
If you would prefer doing application than more theoretical problems and you enjoy or are interested in pursuing economics, then this would be a helpful course to take. It was not too difficult. If you do all the work consistently and go to office hours with questions you will come out with a very good understanding.
If you're looking for a class to fill your econ honours requirement, it might just make more sense to go ahead and take applied 21. 18 has three psets a week, 9 am section, and could have better course materials, specially relating to exam prep.
I would tell students to take math 21a. Even if they "hate math" and only want this for an ec honors requirement. 21a would have better resources, a curve, and more students. This had nothing to do with economics and only frustrated me. I would definitely recommend not to take this course.
In retrospect, I'm glad that I took Math 18 over 21a or applied 21a.  I'm not premed or interested in the hard sciences, so I don't need that much math.  That being said, it was nice that Math 18 was geared towards students interested in the social sciences, specifically economics.  The class was pretty small which made it much less intimidating and also more effective.  Meredith is the best--go to her office hours or schedule a private meeting.  She really does want you to succeed and if you meet with her, you'll understand not just how to get the correct answer, but why that method works.
It's hard to say here because this was the first time this class has been offered. There just seems like there's too much material to be covered because the teaching staff's goals are way too lofty. But this is also like every other math class at Harvard. Just to be safe, stay away if this class isn't mandatory. Class is difficult, but not quite fulfilling to make it worth it.
Just take this class if you absolutely have to! The structure of the class was really porr (maybe because it was the first time it was being taught), but the professor did not seem interested in change it based on the students'complaints.
