This class covers both, the theoretical and the computational aspects of probability theory. Many interesting examples and paradoxes are introduced and explained. It also exposes students to proofs.
Stat 110 is slightly inconsequential or at least not so worthy compared to this one.
Try to read the textbook beyond the regular material to get some more theory out of the course.
This course is surely going to be different next year, as Paul Bamberg will not be teaching it. So anything I can say is going to be irrelevant.
If you want to go into economics or biology, stat 110 might be better. This gives you a much better theoretical background though, and you won't be a formula-pusher later on. Bamberg is a wonderful professor. b
If you don't understand the material after staring at a tersely worded textbook for a while, it's unlikely you will ever understand it.  This class has few resources for struggling students; be careful.
I highly recommend this course. It was an extremely enjoyable math class with an excellent professor.
Professor Bamberg is brilliant; unfortunately, part of this is that he uses the word "obvious" in a fashion I was not previously used to.
Those with significant mathematical background may be bored by this class. Those with no formal experience in proofs may feel slightly overwhelmed by the need to replicate them on tests, but this can probably be studied for fairly naturally.
It teaches important skills, so it is probably a good idea to take it.
The material is fun, but the final was monstrous. Be prepared.
An excellent Freshman Spring class for math people: not too much work, not too advanced, and completely unrelated to freshman intro math classes, so you never feel like you're doing too much math.
It is not taught at too quick a pace, but offers exposure to lots of material.
Easy and enjoyable.
This is a great class if you are interested in the more theoretical side of Probability Theory, or if you want to take something like Stat 110 but with fewer students.
The class was great. McMullen is an amazing teacher.
Probability is awesome. I do think though that what made this class awesome is McMullen. He is the best Professor here by far.
The interesting material as it's now formulated is about enough to cover half a class.
McMullen's such a boss. He's an awesome guy and instructor. Course material is fun. If you oversleep, just read the book and you can still get it. Just can't say there's any flaw.
Probability is an important subject that everyone should be somewhat familiar with.
Prof. McMullen is the reason to take this class.
Definitely take this class is it's taught by professor McMullen..you'll never have a more structured and fun way to learn probability.
The course covers very interesting material and Professor McMullen is an amazing lecturer. The first half of the course was relatively easy and didn't take much time, but the material in the second half became much more difficult.
Fantastic class if Mcmullen is teaching.
It's a great course, where you can tell the professor and the tf were invested in having students learn the material. If you don't have as much math background though, it may be quite time-consuming
I liked the material very much and thought it was quite interesting. I think it made me better at mathematical problem-solving. McMullen is a great lecturer, one of the best in math dept -- when I couldn't go to class I felt like I was cheating myself.
If you took Math 21 or higher, you should definitely take this course instead of Stat 110
It's pretty good. I did learn some stuff. The course should be refined to remove the influence of previous instructors, however.
If you want to have an introduction to probability that goes deeper than just being force-fed formulas, but still remains accessible and engaging, take this class. If you're trying to decide between this and Stat 110, in terms of material you cover almost everything in Stat 110 in 154, but also there is more emphasis on proofs and a whole section on random walks.
Very very useful.
The material is cool. It's more problem based than most math department courses, which was refreshing to me but might be off-putting for some. The material carries the class; the professor adds nothing to it, and the book could be better. But I really like probability--it's fun and useful.
This class is a great introduction to probability theory, which is something any intelligent person should know about.
This class is one of the easier classes in the math department however it is also one of the less interesting classes.  Be aware that the professor will be working off of someone else's notes (unless Paul Bamberg is teaching) and that you will need to put time into the homework, not that it's difficult, but it is time consuming.  I didn't notice it myself but for some the presentation will be much too rooted in proof with not enough application.  If you want application first and foremost don't take this class.
This class was veey challenging, but it was equally rewarding.
Some of the most interesting material in all of mathematics, taught by surely one of its greatest exponents. A must for any mathematically-inclined student, not just in mathematics itself, but also in fields from economics (my discipline) to physics to statistics. This course will not only stand you in superb stead for further work on this subject in mathematics, but also give you a significant advantage in any science that makes substantial use of probability - which is to say, all of them! The importance for progress in human knowledge of a rigorous understanding of the fundamentals of probability (which are much more subtle and wondrous than one perhaps at first suspects) cannot be underestimated. Take this course, be amazed, and be glad.
If this class is still taught by Paul Bourgade, check to see whether the syllabus has been updated. Professor Bourgade is kind, professional, personable, and knowledgeable, but his expectations for this course were not reasonable. Granted, this was the second year that 154 has been offered, so there was no precedent for him to follow. But the philosophy of "bury them in work and compensate by grading leniently" is something that future students deserve to be warned of.
Hard but fun. A tad too formal at times. If you want more applications, look at a Stat course, but this course is great.
Good class.  A lot of material presented, you'll learn a lot of math along the way.  A quick pace, unless you're already familiar with a lot of measure theory or real analysis. Very much the "pure" side of probability, not a statistics course.
Though this class seems to be one of the easier math classes, its difficulty depends on the professor. The material is interesting and good things to know, but it can turn into a challenging course. Bourgade is an incredibly smart professor and his lectures are clear, but he often does not realize that we, as students, are significantly dumber and less educated than he.
This was a good and very applicable probability theory course. I think that there was a bit of a disconnect between the difficulty of material presented in lecture and the difficulty of the homework problems assigned. Future students should budget time to read through the textbook a few times to bridge this difficulty gap.
If Lurie teaches Probability Theory again, take it! It's a relatively easy look at a super interesting part of mathematics: the formalisation of the uncertain. Lurie's really magnificent at teaching it. Notably, his version of the course, and I would guess most versions of the course, include an introduction to measure theory. This means that there will be a lot of overaap with other courses that teach measure theory.
This class is a great way to learn about probability theory from an abstract perspective. It is not, however, a good way to fulfill a stat requirement, as it is a very mathematical introduction to probability. It helps to have exposure to proof-based writing and knowledge of measure theory, and Jacob Lurie is a great lecturer.
The course material is really interesting and Lurie is a great teacher. That said, DON'T be like me and make this course as your first venture into high-level math courses if you've only taken the 21 series. You are expected to have serious proof skills and knowledge of real analysis, so it turned out to be a monumental struggle for a (probably) poor grade. Still a rewarding experience though.
Jacob Lurie is a great lecturer, and he runs his courses well. You will learn the material in this class, and you will understand why you are covering each thing you are covering. Instructors matter, and if Lurie is teaching this class, take it.
The course ended up being quite difficult. While Professor Lurie is a clear lecturer, he goes very fast and is sometimes hard to follow. I recommend taking some sort of analysis before, at least if he teaches it.
