Arul is a really good lecturer: this is a good class to take.
Amazing course that satisfies a lot of different interests, whether they be number theoretic interests, interests in another geometric picture/schemes picture, group cohomology in context, etc.
As taught by Arul, a solid survey of local class field theory w/ cohomology. Continues Math 129; take only if you're interested in the material. Assignments are sporadic, so ensure you're maintaining your understanding outside class.
Arul is an absolutely amazing professor. He delivers lucid lectures and is clearly very enthusiastic about the subject matter. Moreover, he does a very good job of answering students' questions and always strives to ensure that everyone is on the same page. This course is a particularly difficult one to teach, and he guided the students masterfully. There is very little homework in this course, so it doesn't take too much time out of your week.
It teaches a few powerful techniques to answer questions that came up and seemed impossible in earlier classes. However, the class seemed to be mostly preparation for punchlines that will come in 223b.
Number theory is a perfect playing-ground for algebra. Take this course to see this in action.
This class is a great introduction to a very beautiful subject, where nice results are immediately accessible and almost everything seems to work out as you would want it to.
A fine second course in algebraic number theory. Explains not only what adeles, Hilbert class fields, the Artin map, etc. are, but what the salient properties and uses of them are.
This class is awesome, and Rapinchuk is a great instructor. We covered lots of ground, and the class totally made me excited for Math 223b.
As usual, class quality completely depends on the professor. Igor was an extremely clear lecturer, so I would recommend the class if he is teaching it (I would also recommend taking classes with Igor in general). 

As for 223a itself - if you liked Math 129 or are interested in modern number theory at all, you'll definitely like this course. We got to prove some amazing results (for example, we solved the x^2 + 14y^2 representability problem on one problem set).

One thing to watch out for is the fact that we do assume some black boxes (some of which are proved in the second semester), and it's hard to keep track of what we know and what we "know" (but don't actually know how to prove yet). In my opinion, keeping track of this was the hardest part of the course.
The class moves at a pretty brisk pace, but the material is fascinating
Prof. Rapinchuk's courses are great - he's clear and teaches a lot.  The course didn't require a ton of time because the problem sets were rather short (I almost wished they were longer).
You will not be prepared completely, but you can pick up the background as you go along.
A challenging course which digs deep into the guts of number theory using many of the methods at a mathematicians disposal. Its end result (Class field theory) is both remarkably elegant and remarkably complicated.
Don't miss it!  You'll gain a wonderful perspective on many basic things in number theory.
Not necessarily the be-all and end-all of number theory classes, and unlikely to be the last time you ever worry about class field theory. On the other hand, one of the best ways out there to learn some group and Galois cohomology, to learn about the adeles, and to learn what the fuss is about with modern number theory. Not to be missed, for those so inclined.
It covers class field theory thoroughly and in a modern way.
A rewarding class that integrates algebra, topology, and number theory, with some spectacular applications. The work was challenging, but it was simple after seeing things in the right way.
This is a monument of thought. A monument. Take this class you fool.
Math 223 is a very useful course covering important material. Sometimes the emphasis on formalism can be a little much for a number theory class.
It'll probably vary a lot depending on the instructor...
The material was exciting, but Professor Kisin is an abysmal lecturer.
