Make sure you are well-prepared in abstract algebra!! Junecue is really clear at explaining things in class, goes at a good pace, and is really friendly and approachable. Go to his office hours! They are useful and he is willing to explain every question you have
Junecue is a good lecturer! He's really clear and all. That being said, commutative algebra is naturally pretty taxing, so make sure you allocate plenty of time for the homework.
A really solid course in commutative algebra, Junecue does a good job of sketching geometric interpretations of lots of the concepts covered
Only take this if you feel like you have most of algebra, topology, and category theory on lock. Otherwise you'll have a very confusing and unmotivated semester.
Very nice class. Junecue is a great lecturer.
This course was well taught, and it was nice to see certain connections between algebra and other areas. However, I feel that commutative algebra isn't as interesting in its own right as other areas of mathematics, so perhaps I wouldn't recommend it for students not interested in algebraic geometry.
This class is awesome!  Junecue is a fantastic professor, and the material is really cool.  Definitely take it.
Commutative algebra is a very elegant subject, though it feels sometimes like building up a vast amount of machinery for a payoff that never comes. Be warned that this class is difficult and often unintuitive even for a 200-level class, and the workload (an eight-question problem set a week, some questions short but others with multiple parts) is difficult.
Take this course if you're interested in algebra - it provides solid coverage of material such as primary ideal decomposition, the nullstellensatz, Dedekind domains, Galois theory, and representation theory. It may seem a bit dry if you're more interested in applications to algebraic geometry or the like. Math 123 is not a necessary prerequisite - I took this with just 55 and was fine.
Alison is a great teacher. She delivers passionate lectures, and she provides stunningly useful lecture notes. She generates considerable enthusiasm for the course and did a great job of convincing the class of the beauty of algebra.Math 221 is a very underrated course. In taking this course, you will acquire skills that you will find very useful as a mathematician when you study other fields.
This is a tough class, but is very rewarding. I feel very confident taking other algebra-heavy math classes after having taken this class.
Prof. Lam makes algebra fascinating.  Commutative algebra is essential for any future mathematician.
exercises are very important and useful in further studying
Only take this course if you're very set on becoming a mathematician and will definitely take Scheme Theory in the near future. If you don't know any algebraic geometry and are still deciding whether to go to grad school in math, you'd be better off taking a course that will draw you in and excite you about math, and not just provide you with tools to pursue studies that its dryness renders unappealing.
The material in this course is incredibly useful in many other areas -- if you don't know it, you really should.
If you're willing to forgo motivation, then this class is probably a good idea to take.  If not, then consider taking another class which motivates the material covered here in addition.
This class was, hands down, the hardest class I've ever taken - and I've taken math 55.
Hard work, but worth it.
This is a very challenging class, but I learned a tremendous amount of beautiful mathematics.
Professor Gaitsgory will have you working much longer and harder than your typical Harvard Mathematics professor.
If you get a chance to take a course with Prof. Gaitsgory, do it regardless of the subject.  You will work twice as hard but learn more than twice as much.
If Professor Gaitsgory teaches it again, most of the problems will be fixed.  The material is fundamental to algebraic geometry and number theory.
Some aspects of the material are a bit technical, but as my friends like to say, you have to eat your vegetables.
The first weeks are much much much easier than the rest of the course.
This is the best math class I've ever taken! It covers significantly more material than any other introductory commutative algebra classes. Moreover, Prof. Lurie has not only gone through a thorough, elegant, and inspirational treatment of concepts introduced in the textbook, but also enlightened us with complementary remarks that expanded my view of commutative algebra beyond the laborious definitions rendered in the textbook. He would always use concrete and simple examples to perfectly illustrate the ideas behind the abstract definitions. In particular, he frequently motivated the otherwise intangible algebraic concepts through geometric interpretations, which helped me to build a solid foundation for my future endeavor in algebraic geometry.Besides Prof. Lurie's scathingly brilliant lectures, the problem sets in this class taught me the depth of math and the paradigm of mathematical research. Every problem in his psets encapsulated a technique or a concept crucial to enhancing my understanding of commutative algebra. Many problems took me hours to solve, but through these challenging problems, I learned that the best response to a failed attempt is to continue to engage in substantive thoughts on every single aspect of the problem and meticulously examine the validity of each step in my approach, which is the exact discipline required for professional research.This class has tremendously expanded my mathematical knowledge, trained my problem solving skills, and most importantly, inspired me to become a mathematician.
Professor Lurie's lectures were excellent, and the course covered a lot of material. Know that commutative algebra doesn't motivate itself very well, though. Not knowing algebraic geometry made it hard to understand the material fully.
Professor Lurie covered a lot of material very meticulously. While the nominal pre-requisite is math 123, I found that this class drew on a wide spread of knowledge: topology, algebraic geometry, and whatever area vector bundles, line bundles, tangent bundles, etc. fall into. It was hard to appreciate what I was doing: at the end of the day, I was able to scrape together proofs about Noetherian Artinian local Cohen-Macaulay rings, without really understanding why exactly people care about such things. To his credit, the professor attempted to give some motivation via algebraic geometry, which I unfortunately didn't understand too well. It seems like it would have been good to take this concurrently with, or after, algebraic geometry.
A good preparation for abstract and classical algebraic geometry.
It's a graduate course: the more you put in, the more you get out. That said, the material was very well presented (though the pace was quite fast!).
Professor Lurie is a great lecturer, so I recommend any course with him (just be warned that his take-home exams are time-consuming).In general, I recommend caution with graduate level courses. You can learn a lot in them, or you can be miserable when you get hopelessly lost during lecture. Or, you can enjoy finally understanding the concepts that got you hopelessly lost during lecture. Figure out which kind of person you are, and then decide whether you want to take the class.
I would highly recommend Professor Lurie, but be prepared to work hard.
