I learned a lot-- both conceptually and technically-- about a field that's really colorful and important in pure math. It's too much work at times, but overall it's worth it.
You simply must learn about number fields.
The course is incredibly rigorous and satisfying, though very difficult. I would recommend this course to students who like to do lots of work and who have a good attention span during lectures. (I would recommend the course more if the textbook is changed.)
There are some really fun topics here.
Math 129 is a lot of work, but the material is fascinating and a lot of the techniques covered in 123 are put into real action!
I would warn future students of this course that if they take it they must be willing to devote nearly all of their time and energy to the course just to keep their heads above water.
Definitely take this course!  The material is very interesting and the homework assignments are a lot of fun (you may even learn a little bit about Saxons ;]).  Kisin is also an excellent professor, and you would want to have him teach again next year.  While admittedly not the best lecturer (though he is definitely not a bad lecturer), he is very conversational and friendly, and cares a lot for his students' learning always encouraging us to ask him questions.  Also, do not listen to anyone who tells you Math 129 is the hardest undergraduate math course.  Number theory requires often a little more creativity than topology or algebra, since it amalgamates these subjects and applies them to the study of, well, numbers.  It is much more fun than difficult :)
If you like to do algebra and want to see what number theory is like, definitely take this class.
Material is interesting and HW/exams not too difficult. Very fun class.
I really enjoyed the material in this class; if you like number theory and/or had a good experience in Math 123, this is a good class for you.I think this class was a lot easier this year than in previous years, so difficulty shouldn't be a reason for not taking this course.
This course covers very interesting material in an accessible way.
This year, the class was a nice and leisurely introduction to algebraic number theory (though I hear it was much easier this year for some reason...might change?).  Prof Kisin is very clear and encourages questions so it's pretty easy to pick up on all the stuff that happens in class.
number fields are pretty dope. no, seriously, the material in lecture is pretty awesome, even though (at least this year) the problem sets weren't really challenging... Kisin is a nice guy
This class is one of the hardest undergrad math classes. Kisin tries to make it easy with short homework and exams that are designed to be easy, but algebraic number theory is very complicated and a lot of the proofs are very involved and rarely intuitive. Many of the people who take it are really smart, so it can be discouraging. Still, things like calculating class groups and figuring out the ramification of prime ideals are definitely interesting, and if you want to see either more number theory or more algebra than 123/124 this is a good class to take.
If you like number theory and want to solidify your knowledge of ideals and number fields and the like, this is a good course. The psets aren't hard (at least this year) but lectures will challenge your mind for sure.
If you want a reasonably chill math class and learn some interesting stuff, then this is a good choice.  The easiest psets I've done out of all the math classes I've taken.  The exams are fine if you don't mess up your computations.  There's a chunk of the course in the middle that gets a little computation-heavy and not as interesting, but that material is unlikely to show up on an exam, so don't worry.
Nice material, and also the workload is not bad. As long as you study the class materials and homework, you will do well in the exams (which are just directly testing class materials and homework). So there is no need to stress in this class.
This course is a great addition to the other algebra classes in the department, and Kisin is a great lecturer.
The material in this course is really interesting, and the specific topics covered were good, if presented without a ton of context. Prof Kisin's lecturing is mag-NIFICENT.
By the time you can take this course, you'll probably already have fulfilled the 120s requirement and so you may not think you have reason to take it. Definitely consider it regardless. Algebraic number theory is an uncommonly beautiful part of mathematics, with very little of the grubby inequality-bashing that you find in analysis; though proofs presented in class may seem difficult, the core material is the set of computational methods that problem sets are meant to practice; though I didn't understand every detail of the course, all the material fell together and "clicked" inside my brain in a way that few other subjects do. Also, Hannah is an excellent TF and nothing on your problem sets will escape her.
Kisin is clearly a wonderful, fun person, but the lectures are kind of dull. There's a lot of repetition of already covered material, and the homework tends to be quite computational. Next year it will be taught by Mazur, however, so it should be fantastic.
This class is absolutely necessary. Number theory of the kind taught by this class is beautiful and indispensable to mathematical understanding. At times, the lectures could be a little confusing, and a bit rushed. Burt Kisin was a very fun teacher; the hour was never boring.
This class was epic, easily one of the bast math classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Kisin is funny and an effective educator.
This is an interesting course that covers some great material and isn't difficult.
As you can probably tell from the low enrollment but high Q scores, this course is a bit off the beaten path. It's certainly not the most important thing to take as a math concentrator. However, if you're looking for a math course that doesn't need to fulfill requirements, this is a good choice. It's fun, interesting, and not much work outside of understanding what happens in class. Kisin is a good lecturer and often presents multiple proofs of the same thing to illustrate a point.
Take good notes from the class and ask questions! Don't fall behind!
It is a great class!  Make sure you learn the stuff well during the class but also make sure review before the final!  You'll forget stuff!
This course is a solid introduction to algebraic NT. It covers important material and you will come out of the class with a good understanding of splitting of primes in Galois extensions, the ideal class group, etc. That said, it does tend to move slowly, and Mazur tends to lecture nonlinearly which can be confusing at first. The graduate version is likely better for students who want a challenge.
Really good material! As with all math courses, your experience will vary based on who teaches it!
Great class if you are interested in Algebraic Number Theory. Work load was very reasonable.
This course is low stress compared to most other offerings, but covers interesting material.  Mazur is a really clear lecturer.
If algebra is your favorite field of math, or if its of prime importance to you, or if your heart is split between two courses, then take Math 129, which should be an integral part of your math education. Every unit is new and fascinating. Part of the class involves briefly researching and presenting a special topic in front a group of your peers, which helps extend your knowledge to other domains but principally enhances your public speaking skills and builds character. Sometimes the material can be dense but during a regular week the homework load follows the norm. Overall, this is an ideal class and taking it will have lasting ramifications for your mathematical career.Note: You might have detected a trace of discrimination in this review, but that is only because Ive determined through trial and error that Math 129 is one of Harvards best math offerings. So just throw your hat in the ring and enroll!
The subject material is super interesting for anyone with interests in algebraic number theory!
129 with Prof. Mazur is very good, though the course is typically taught by Kisin. Marcus is an excellent textbook, although the homework problems can be a little dull. The class covers some truly beautiful materialin my mind, the splitting of primes in Galois extensions was the highlight. There were a couple of awkward periods; there was a strange few lectures at the beginning of the course where we seemed to be working towards Minkowski's theorem but abruptly swerved towards Dedekind domains, and at the end of the course there was a bit of complex analysis. However, the material includes a number of powerful results and overall was excellent. Mazur is a deceptive lecturer; he appears, at all times, to be going at a rather slow pace, and he always takes a bit of time to review at the beginning of lecture, but by the end of the semester you've practically finished the textbook. The presentation component was a useful thing for me, and there was a couple very interesting presentations given by other members of the class that I enjoyed very much. Overall, this is a very good class.I took this course without having done Math 123, but I was very comfortable with the 123's material. I would say that a knowledge of Galois theory at the level of 123 is useful, but it is surely possible to learn that material in 129.
