Harris is a phenomenal lecturer.  Seriously, just take anything taught by him.  The material for this course was interesting and the textbook was great, though the homework could be a little long and tedious at times.  On the whole, though, I'd definitely recommend.
Professor Harris is a very clear lecturer.
Just go petition the department for Prof. Harris to teach the class you'd like to take next (like, say, this one). Not even kidding. Also, Lie theory is hugely important, and it will come up in your life even if you make tomatoes for a living. I am kidding there. But it comes up in particle physics and number theory too, so close enough.
The material is useful (at least, useful for pure mathematics) and interesting. Professor Harris focuses on examples, which is a probably a good thing.
Professor Harris is an amazing lecturer, the material is interesting, and the textbook is great.
Any course with Harris is going to be good for developing intuition.  This course was especially good for getting your hands dirty with a lot of computations and therefore really seeing what everything is about.
Great way to get your feet wet in grad math, especially if Harris is teaching it. (And even if you're not new to grad math you'll probably get a lot out of it.)
This was a great class!  Very interesting and Professor Harris is an excellent teacher!
Joe Harris is awesome! You'll never get a clearer and more motivated treatment of representation theory.
When taught by Prof. Harris, you will go through a LOT of examples of the general theory which is great. Also, you will get a lot of long and difficult problem sets which makes for an intense and busy semester, but you'll learn a lot and will surely enjoy it!
This is an interesting class with a great mathematician. We work through many representations of Lie algebras, and the approach is quite instructive and visually pleasing. The course assumes a wide background in fields ranging from representation theory to algebraic geometry, however, so this may be something to keep in mind. The textbook, though nice and informal, is best supplemented with a text in Lie theory.
There is a lot more grunt work of computation than in a normal math class. This is probably good for you however, as it forces you to understand the material really well.
The content of this course (224) varies greatly from year to year; be aware of this. Two years ago it covered finite dimensional Lie groups, last year it covered affine schemes, and this semester addressed the representation theory of infinite dimensional Lie groups. The material was challenging; however, Professor Schmid's lectures were very clear and good references were given. Overall, an extremely interesting subject where a lot of different fields intersect: algebraic geometry, differential geometry, harmonic analysis, and number theory.
The material is pretty cool, and Prof. Rapinchuk's lectures are always very clear.
