Lie Groups are really cool!
Was a good class.  Instructor contributed greatly to the success of the class; I can't guarantee that it would be so interesting and well taught under a different instructor.
Beautiful material; a lot of work; Prof. Zhu's teaching is excellent.
Excellent course in Lie Theory - we covered lots of material, including classification of semisimple Lie algebras, compact lie groups and their representations.
Do eet.
You should take any class taught by Dennis Gaitsgory. (Well, okay. Any class that isn't stupid. So don't take Math 1a with him next year.)
It's a fun, elegant topic and helped me better understand some topics like representations theory and manifolds that I'd seen earlier in isolation.
One of the most interesting and beautiful modern mathematical theories. Incredibly useful, and very elegant.
I found this class extremely hard, even after having formally taken all the required topics. Nevertheless I still think the class is extremely interesting and worthwhile taking, especially if you have any interest at all in Theoretical Physics.
Lie Algebras and Lie Groups are a very fundamental subject in mathematics. The algebra and geometry interplay in a powerful way, so that everything you could ever hope to be true, is true. This course was very clearly taught and logically ordered to quickly develop the key tools for proving these beautiful results.
The course starts off a bit slowly, but later material is very interesting. I learned quite a bit.
This stuff is important to learn, and pretty cool.  If the course is run out of Kirrilov, the material is not overly difficult, but maybe a little dry.
This class has clarified so many things in physics for me. I'm really glad I took it.
Fabian is a good lecturer, though a bit dry and followed Kirillov quite closely. I had a lot of fun with the final project and learned a lot, though it took quite a bit of time. The problem sets were fairly dull however, and it often felt more like physics problems than proper math problems were assigned, which left me feeling quite unmotivated to work on them. That said, representations of sl(2, C) are magic and now I understand why we studied them so much.
Exceptionally beautiful subject matter, but was not a big fan of the textbook author's style (Kirillov). This may be characteristic of introductory texts on Lie theory in general though -- I have no reference point.
This course was okay. It will vary greatly depending on who teaches. This time, lectures were very close to the textbook (Kirillov) and the homework assignments were very easy usually compared to other graduate math classes.
You can learn a lot from this course, but you do need to work hard after class.
A Great Class! Fabian taught this course wonderfully, which really did give a phenomenal introduction to one of the most important branches of mathematics. Kirillov was the textbook we used - an excellent, and not overly-dry/technical book.  Problem sets were not hard, but were indeed helpful.
The subject of Lie groups and Lie algebras is a beautiful one. It is absolutely worth learning, and I really enjoyed playing with the tools we developed this semester. Alison's enthusiasm for the subject was palpable, and it often rubbed off onto her students.On the other hand, the problem sets were often riddled with mistakes and were painful to do because of unnecessarily heavy computations. This caused much confusion and grief for students in the class.
Lie groups and algebras are a really cool topic!
