You'll learn a lot, and you'll work a lot; make sure you're willing to put in the time for this class.
I took this class because I was told it was an easy math gen ed. It turns out that this class is actually very difficult.You probably shouldn't take (Siu's version of) this class without proof-writing (+LaTeX) experience, a solid knowledge of linear algebra (he basically assumes we know it all), and some basic knowledge of abstract algebra. This is necessary but not sufficient. Additionally, you must accept that this class will take over your life. Even when you're not psetting, you will spend a lot of time talking, thinking, and even dreaming about math. I recommend this course to students who need to fulfill their math gen ed and have a bit of extra time to burn. I also recommend this course to passionate students who want to learn the best parts of undergraduate algebra in one semester (the rest is trivial). Although I hated this course at times, I'm glad I took it.
This class is not the torture some dramatic souls make it out to be. Rather, it's a class which requires serious effort and time. A lot of time will be spent struggling with p-sets; this can be a good thing or a bad thing, depending on your mental preferences (for me it was a good thing)
If your goal is to learn a lot of math, this is the right class to take. Be ready to spend a lot of time on problem sets.
Professor Siu has good intentions but is sometimes very unclear. If you want to take this class, make sure to learn all of abstract and linear algebra beforehand because he assumes you know it coming in. But even that won't be enough--make sure you brush up on some differential geometry because we did the hard Lefschetz theorem in class. Also, be prepared for a surprise final. The hardest and most time-consuming class BY FAR at Harvard.
This course requires you to put an extremely large amount of time and effort into it. The psets were generally very long and difficult, and the presence of typos inn many of the probblems did not help. If you take this class, you should expect that Math 55 will probably become your single biggest commitment. The topics covered in this course are comparable to (or even go beyond) the topics covered in several different graduate-level (200-level) mathematics courses at Harvard. Expect to be frustrated at times at the difficulty of the problems and that you will be have to make significant concessions to other parts of your life (sleep, clubs, etc.). Despite all this, I would still take this course again had I known what it was going to be like; Math 55 is probably the only undergrad (freshman!) mathematics course in the country that covers such a broad range of topics in such depth in just one semester. For this reason, Math 55 is entirely unique.
This course is hard.  If you have Siu, don't take it with a difficult courseload in addition to 55 (I've heard with other professors, the courseload is easier so it is more feasible, but I discourage it with Siu).  Also, you do not learn as much here as you could in a class like 122, but you gain not only math skills but also a small community that can be very helpful for you (your problem solving skills also probably improve here more than they would in a class like 122).
It's a very fast exposition of abstract algebra. Don't take the class if you are not comfortable thinking abstractly and did a lot of math beforehand. While the psets never take 60 houes as stated by the math departement, they still take a fair amount of time, so expect to work a lot on the psets.
definitely take this class if you have a very strong interest in math
You get to pull weekly all-nighters in the math department common room with fellow 55ers. Which is kind of fun sometimes. Siu's choice of material is not ideal, and the problem sets generally involve lot of calculations, but aside from that it's definitely worth taking it.
It is a lot of work, and much of it is tedious, but in the end it is worth it.
Be prepared.
Professor Gaitsgory has the gift of arising the pleasure of doing math in others. I started enjoying some areas I was least expecting to like after his lectures.
I learned so much!
Do not expect to be able to pursue extracurricular commitments in great depth.
This class is very demanding, but could also end up being the most rewarding experience of your life.
This is a good introduction to Harvard, both academically and socially. It's also a good introduction to the subject that maths-contest people call "real maths". This is probably very helpful for students who are trying to decide whether to be math majors.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. It changed my definition of trivial.
Your experience will most likely be different from mine, as is always the case, since the professor changes yearly. However, what is true is that it's a class that will challenge you, but it's also a class where you meet some of your closest friends. Don't be daunted by the course -- it has a reputation that is overhyped, and you can always think of those hours spent completing problem sets as hours spent hanging out with other kids like you. Ultimately, have fun, and enjoy the beautiful math presented in a way you might not see in the near future.
Ignore the legends about Math 55.  If you really like math and spent a lot of your free time studying math in high school, I guarantee that 55 is doable.  When I was a senior in high school I worried that I wouldn't be able to do Math 55 because I hadn't managed to qualify for the USAMO, and I heard that 55 is filled with MOPpers.  It's true that there were several contest whizzes in the class (including an IMO gold winner, several MOPpers, and some physics wizards.  But you definitely don't need to be good at contests to do well in 55.  If you are looking for resources, I enjoyed Linear Algebra Done Right (Axler), Algebra (Artin), Algebra (Mac Lane and Birkhoff).  The last one was my main preparation for the class.  It's a bit overkill, and I couldn't cover all of it.In terms of material, 55a covered a lot of stuff that is probably pretty specific to Gaitsgory that you wouldn't normally find.  For example, we did a (very) generalized version of the Spectral Theorem for modules of finite length over commutative rings.  This can be specialized to the case of a finite length module over a PID, a finite dimensional vector space (considered over the polynomial algebra induced by a fixed linear operator), or finite abelian groups.  This was ridiculously cool.I'm pretty confident, though, that the main benefit to taking this class is  that you get to meet and become close with a number of very driven, very intelligent students.
This was my favorite class this semester. Gaitsgory's lectures were extremely clear, and he genuinely cared to make sure that everyone really understood the material, even if that meant explaining proofs (which were obviously trivial to him) over and over again in lecture and office hours. The workload was manageable, but still more than all my other classes combined. Take this class if you're interested in learning a lot of really cool math!
This course provides a strong foundation in group theory, linear algebra, and higher abstract algebra to any student who is willing and able to absorb large chunks of abstract mathematics in a short period of time. Because the problem sets are specifically designed to have the students redevelop the mathematics on their own, a very good understanding of the material can be acquired despite the course's rapidity.The lectures were wonderful in terms of their predictability and clarity; the professor always knew exactly what to teach and how to teach it. The course assistant made important contributions to the lectures that we all benefited from.The exams were a surprisingly good way of testing understanding; they were very challenging, but nonetheless rather fun.Overall, Math 55a was a great experience.
It might be kind of hard to catch up with the speed of lecture. It went so fast. Make sure take good notes.
Be prepared to have fun with math!
In one of the first lectures, Professor Gaitsgory walked into class and announced "If you think math is easy, then you must not know enough math." And throughout the semester, he proved that point very well. My only advice to future students is to know what you're getting into with this class. It will be a long difficult journey through the semester with many late nights of algebra, but the knowledge and friendships you will gain are undoubtedly worth it.
You will learn more math than you ever dreamed possible in the span of this semester, from the spectral decomposition theorem to principle ideal domains to category theory. But be warned: this class is extremely difficult. Do not expect to have a social life, and plan on sleeping at least two hours less per night than you are used to. You may find your other classes to be annoying distractions from the most important task: finishing your Math 55 pset. You will be thrilled when your pset only takes 20 hours. Your other classes' 5-10 hour psets will seem so easy by comparison. I had taken two years of math beyond multivariable calculus coming into Math 55, but in spite of all that I got less than 50% on the first midterm and took an average of 35 hours a week to finish the psets. No amount of preparation aside from winning the IMO can fully prepare you for what you are about to encounter. Fortunately (at least with Professor Gaitsgory) bonus problems are given at the end of the semester. Of course, they take 8 hours apiece...but what can you expect? We covered most of Math 25a in the first six or so weeks - that is how ridiculously fast this class goes. This extreme speed means that you're going to learn a TON of math...without a single number other than numbers used to index things. You will also make lots of really good friends, since you will be forced to work with others to finish the psets. This really bonds you together in what is a never-ending battle: Math 55 students vs. the pset. But this battle is fully worth fighting. After finishing a pset, you will feel invincible...until the next pset, anyway. If you truly love math, and are willing to devote your life to it, this is the class for you. Although this class is unimaginably hard, it is totally worth it. The sheer knowledge you will gain, the unique challenge it presents, are what make Math 55...Math 55. So when I'm asked what the answer to the ultimate questions of life, the universe, and everything is, I don't answer 42. I answer 55. You will too after finishing it...if you survive.
The class was excellent in delivering a concrete foundation for the rest of college mathematics, but do not underestimate the amount of work it entails.  This class will literally take up all of your time, so I would not recommend taking this class along with any other challenging classes.
You'll work your butt off, but it'll pay off. You'll have a foundation for math that can't be instilled in any way other than to do math for hours on end every week. You'll have great friends. It is very, very, very hard, and don't let anyone tell you otherwise. Feel free to keep in touch with old 55ers - we love being part of the occasionally demoralizing but overall beautiful cult that is Math 55
If you're enthusiastic about beautiful math, then you should take this class. The workload is significant, but if you find math interesting, it's definitely manageable and worth your time (unless you hate writing proofs).
A parable:A sister and brother are walking to the first day of Math 55a when they discover someone has built a towering brick wall across the way to Science Center 102b. The brother, irritated by the inconvenience, clambers up the wall and leaps to the other side. The sister, relishing the challenge, batters her head against the bricks until, many hours later, the wall collapses in a heap of dust.The sister finished Math 55a and enjoyed every moment; the brother gave up after the first problem set.
It's hard but so worth it.
If you have seriously considered about this class, I highly recommend you to take it! Even though it would make life harder than usual sometimes, it definitely deserves it.
This class is awesome!!!  It was by far the highlight of my first semester.  Be prepared to learn some incredible mathematics and to work on some really interesting problems.  Also, be sure you have a strong math background.  Professor Schmid, though perhaps a bit intimidating at first, is a really nice person and a great teacher.
The first thing to understand about Math 55 is that nobody will be able to sufficiently explain the concept of Math 55.  This is true for a variety of reasons, including the fact that the professor (and hence, style and material of the course) changes every year, as well as the fact that different people get profoundly different things out of 55.  Point being - the only way you'll really get a feel for this class is by showing up to it.That said, there are a couple of things that I think would be good to say about the course.  First, as Professor Schmid aptly put it, the value of Math 55 doesn't lie in whatever material the course entails.  The true value of taking this class is being put into an environment that throws you to the metaphorical wolves, but, by giving you ten of the brightest students at Harvard to work with, also gives you the best chance at surviving.  I've been privileged, over the past semester, to get to know some awesome people, and the value of such an experience cannot be overstated or, in my opinion, replicated anywhere else in the world.In terms of advice  form study groups, and form them early.  This particular Math 55 class was slow to form said study groups, and I wish now that we did earlier.  However, what I think needs to be said is that this course /is/ doable; dont feel too intimidated.  Dont waste your time trying to study up on concepts over the summer, but if you havent before, familiarize yourself with proof-writing.  If you really enjoy the mathematics and put in the effort, this can be one of the best experiences of your life.
This is a demanding class and will be very time consuming. That being said, the course is different every year and so will the amount of work. The only advice I can give is to try it out for the first couple of weeks and see if you can manage the work. The workload will not increase, but the topics will become conceptually more difficult towards the end of the class, so you should take that into account.
While it is a lot of work, it is extremely rewarding.
Extremely rewarding course that exposes the student to a lot of fascinating mathematics,
I took Math 55 with a reasonable amount of experience in contest mathematics, but not too much exposure to abstract algebra (having never taken courses on the subject in the past).Within this course, concepts are built up from a basic level, and they are difficult not because they all require startling insight, but because they are advanced (in the sense that they rely on other concepts, which in turn rely on others). It's quite different to competition mathematics, but it's still a lot of fun.I recommend that all students interested in mathematics at least try this course - aside from the material itself, this course is a great way to get to know other people interested in mathematics.
This course is an excellent introduction to higher level mathematics as well as the classmates you will be working with for the next four years. This class is very unusual in that many people taking it already know a large portion of the material covered. So, it is important to ask whether you would like to learn completely new material, or whether you'd rather gain a more solid understanding of fundamentals and practice problem solving. I highly recommend this course as both an educational and social experience.
If you know you can handle it, take it; it will be really good. If you are not sure you can handle it, you most probably can't.
Caveat: 55 will quite likely be the most challenging academic experience you have had thus far, and is really meant for those who are passionate about math. However, being the kid who very nearly dropped the class, but ultimately stuck with it, I would say: if you really love math, but are unsure about whether you have the background needed, give it a shot. I only had a formal background upto the equivalent of calc BC in senior year, and I had a great (if extremely hard) time in 55a. You can do other serious classes and extracurriculars and have a social life (within limits). Schmid was a fantastic professor and his lecture notes are really comprehensive and authoritative. But then, you don't know the next professor might approach it. Don't worry too much about getting stuck in the wrong class: if you're really not meant for 55, you'll know it pretty soon.
What a great class. We learned how to math like a bro.
Remember that the professor changes from year to year, and so can the curriculum.  There's a good deal of legend surrounding Math 55, but if you think there's the slimmest chance you could handle it, try it.  Be warned, though, that Math 55 assumes you are familiar with university-level proofs and comfortable with set-theory notation; the best way to familiarize yourself is to read through university-level math textbooks.  Also, a good portion of the course covers linear algebra from an extremely abstract point of view that can be unintuitive to apply to specific problems, so learning linear algebra in a more computational form (say, from MIT's OCW) will help you grasp it more conceptually.  And take the workload ratings seriously: problem sets are difficult, and if you take it with another difficult class that requires weekly problem sets (I took it with Physics 16, which I thought was just as hard as 55), you will suffer.
Enjoy it. You've never been in a class like this before.
If Siu is teaching it, then brace for an heart attack.
There will be a time in which you spend 40 hours a week on your psets. That being said, if you truly love mathematics. There is literally no better decision you could make than taking Math 55.
This is a fantastic thing that Harvard math has come up with. A truly fantastic thing. Don't be scared. If you're considering at all, and are willing to work, shop it. Then keep taking it. It is amazing. Also this class is the only way I made any friends. Without it my life would quite literally be in shambles.
It'll be a fair amount of work, but it isn't as impossible as the legends may suggest.
It's not what you get out of lectures (although that would certainly help), but what you get out of the problem sets that really matters in the end. Make sure you know how to write clear proofs. And be ready to sink many, many hours into psets. But it will totally be worth it if you do.
At times you will love yourself for taking this course; at times you will hate yourself. You learn so much about mathematics, and you're also forced to develop a good work ethic. But you'll also have a very limited social life. Don't take this course out of pride - take it if you really sincerely want to learn math. Else, you will suffer deeply... like, Mariana Trench deep.
I think that this class is a must-take if you think that you can handle it.  My other classes this semester seemed like a breeze compared to it.  Also, unless you've seen all the material before, I think the class is worth taking - I had lots of training in Olympiad math and still felt a lot of the class was quite difficult.  This class is also good for bonding with classmates - I can say that this is the only class where I've talked to every single person in the class meaningfully, and I find that I spend quite a bit of time with the people in class just by virtue of discussing problem sets.
Your decision to take it should be based on how much time you are willing to put into math instead of how good you think you are at math
If you love math, and you don't particularly care about anything else, take this class!!! It will change your life. Be prepared to work for about 40 hours per week on some problem sets; but after you finish the problem sets you'll understand math so well that you'll feel like a god.  Also, don't worry that taking this class will destroy your social life. Sure, you'll spend most of your time locked in Thayer basement trying to figure out what a Lie Algebra is, but if you manage your time well and take easy classes for the rest of your schedule, you won't have to pull any all-nighters and you'll be able to go out on weekends.Basically, if you want to turn into a mathematical legend, this is the class to take. It's survival of the fittest mind, for in Math 55, you're at war.
There is so much written about this class already on the internet, and I believe that these sources do not even begin to paint a picture of what is Math 55a. The best thing to do for this class is to expect the unexpected.
Instructors typically change from year to year - and since it's mostly up to them do pick the topics, difficulty/style can vary. That makes the CUE guide a bit useless, but nevertheless some things are always going to be the same:- the course is going to be really hard for most people;- problem sets will sometimes seem impossible,but:- you can (and should (and will)) collaborate with other people that are as confused as you are (or even more!) and try to figure everything out, which magically happens on the night before the day the pset is due.So don't despair! The add/drop deadline is also really important, because if you make the wrong decision you might have a really nightmarish semester. So try to figure it out before the fifth Monday!
It is essential to realize that this course is not meant for the general audience, but rather for those who are willing to invest the majority of their time in a fast-paced and broad study of abstract algebra. While starting from the basics, the course quickly progressed into fairly advanced topics, so some earlier exposure to the subject is useful.If that is not a discouragement, then the course can be a fantastic experience. Working around and together with some of the best of the freshmen interested in mathematics and under a professor renowned in their field is eye-opening and fundamentally constructive for one's own interests and motivations.
Be prepared to do a lot of algebra, and spend a significant amount of time on psets. Otherwise, you do learn a lot and get exposure to a lot of cool material.
This is a great class IF you have the ability to survive. You're classmates will be the best math students not only in the US but also in the world. However, make sure you know quite a bit of advanced math before taking it. The professor might say that the course doesn't assume any previous knowledge but having some background helps greatly. So make sure you use the first 5 weeks to verify if you can survive. Otherwise the course can become very, very frustrating.
(First, note that the professor changes every year, and so each Math 55 may be quite different.)Math 55 lives up to its reputation.A lot of people shop 55 and ultimately drop the class. This is normal; don't be ashamed to do so. 55 is not for everyone. It requires a lot of mathematical background and curiosity. If it's for you, you'll know, because it will be your favorite class.Expect to put in a lot of time and energy. Expect not to understand things the first time around. But also, expect a lot of challenging and beautiful mathematics taught by a master.The same old advice: Ask questions in class. Go to office hours.
This class is very rewarding given you have the time to put in. You will be surrounded by peers who are the best in the world at mathematics, and can learn very much from them and the class.
The professor will probably be different next year, so your experience will be quite different from ours. Suffice it to say that Professor Siu is... unique. The lectures didn't make much sense and the problem sets had way too many errors, but that's not really why anyone takes 55. Take 55 for the students in the class.
It's difficult and requires a lot of time, but it is also incredibly rewarding.  If you complete this course, you will feel that you have a deep, rigorous understanding of the course material.
If you really love math, and want to live and breathe it, then take this course.  Sometimes you will hate the course, such as when it's 3 a.m. the night before a problem set is due and you're still staring blankly at problem 10, but you'll always recall your love every time you come to class and the mathematical universe is laid bare before you.
Take advantage of the first 5 weeks before the drop deadline. It is really helpful to orient yourself if you are not sure whether to take it or not.
If you are willing to put in the work, this is an extremely rewarding class.
Don't be scared off by the reputation of this course, but also don't be attracted because of the reputation. You won't know if this course is right for you until you try it out.
If you were That Kid in your high school, if you looked at the course book and knew you had to come here because of this course, if you can find the mathematical errors in A Beautiful Mind, if you eat fractions and shit natural logarithms, this is for you.  If not, you've got a chance, but watch yourself.  Remember, there's no shame in surrender to a power greater than yourself.
If you have the necessary mathematical background, and are willing to put the necessary time into this course, it is definitely worth the effort.
This is a difficult course, but if you put in the time it takes, you will get a lot out of it.
The course was tough, occasionally even overwhelming,  but it's definitely worth it.
This is class is difficult, but very doable if you work efficiently. This is the right course for many people with prior experience, but it may not be the best way to learn new math.
If you think you might want to take it, try it out, but don't take it if you do not have time to dedicate to it.
If you have a strong interest in mathematics, this is definitely a course worth taking. It is demanding but very rewarding - it introduces the students to a lot of advanced topics and is a great basis for further growth in the field of mathematics.
It's a really rewarding class and you're learn a lot. Just know that math will be a big part of you life if you take this class. Most weeks, my problem set was more work than my other three classes combined.
This course requires ability but most of all it requires dedication and a love of math. It can be hard work, but it's a ton of fun and you'll gain an extremely rewarding understanding of the material. Take the opportunity to investigate it during the first couple weeks. Only by trying it out will you know if it's the course for you.
Obviously this course is not for everyone, but if you can handle it, it is life-changing. Don't be too afraid of the legend--if you're interested in the course go to the first few classes. Take advantage of the add/drop deadline to figure out if it's manageable or not. If it is, you will love it.
I filled in "recommend with reservations" because the course is only intended for those who have fairly sophisticated math background. In terms of requirements, I can't think of anything explicit (a very minimal amount of calculus is used on the problem sets), but problem-solving ability (if you did AMCs, something near USAMO-qualification level) and a decent preparedness for abstraction would be good things to have. You'll be able to share solutions with other people in the class, so the psets won't be too rough. Don't give too much weight to the hype; I found it to be much more manageable than I expected - although the instructor probably makes a big difference. If you can handle it, I think it's a great class and much worth taking over 25 (and not necessarily more work, at least judging from this year).
This is going to be hard, but probably worth it.
This class is awesomely challenging but also enlightening. It is the best introduction to college math I could have asked for.
It's Math 55. It's an incredible class, but be prepared to be challenged.
First of all: the workload for this class is overhyped by a factor of at least 5. Every person I talked to consistently reported spending 5-10 hours per PSet. This is less time than I am forced to spend on my Expos essay. Moreover, it is hard to not finish with an A.

If you are competent with proofs and are interested in math then I strongly recommend this class. After taking 55a you will have enough background to begin learning a lot of higher math on your own. You will know what a module is, what a wedge product is, what a short exact sequence is, what the Jordan decomposition is, and so on and so forth. Moreover, Gaitsgory genuinely cares about making sure the students understand the material and practically begs students to come to office hours.

I do suggest having someone to talk to that has seen the material before; the lectures move quite rapidly and often don't include bits of intuition or motivation that would otherwise make things much clearer.
This course with Gaitsgory is amazing.  If you are willing to work hard and passionate about the material, you should take it.
Don't be scared by the reputation of Math 55. The course is hard and you will spend many hours on the problem sets, but it's not impossible and will not eat your life away. In particular, prior experience with abstract math is not necessary; Professor Gaitsgory does a great job of taking you from knowing basically nothing to having a decent grasp of linear algebra and group theory. If you think you can do it, try it out for a few weeks and don't worry too much about your grade or the workload; you will be pleasantly surprised. Also, go to office hours. You will get your questions cleared up and Prof. Gaitsgory occasionally gives out hints/solutions to homework problems.
The course goes really fast. Great part of the course is about you learning by yourself, while lectures give you only a guideline. The course is all about abstraction to the extent that it lacks concreteness.
Gaitsgory is easily the best teacher I've ever had. I wasn't a big fan of representation theory personally, and would have preferred something else. However, it is an important subject to learn at some point, so I can't really complain. Even if you've come in with a reasonable amount of background in all the topics 55 is supposed to cover, the class is worth taking. It forces you to think about everything more abstractly, and gives a better understanding of everything at a fundamental level. I'd absolutely recommend the class to anyone who's interested in math.
For the first 3 weeks I thought I was still shopping the course, thinking that I would eventually drop to 25. In the 6th week I realized that I was taking 55. It is a hard course, but not unreasonably so. Work hard, learn math.
If you really love math, and have been years ahead of normal math curricula, this course will absolutely meet your intellectual demands. It is very challenging; be prepared to work 40 hours or more if you aren't already very familiar with the material. Overall, completely worth it though - nowhere else can you learn so much material in one class.
Gaitsgory is the man.
Perhaps evaluate niche individual skills
Problem sets form the backbone of this course.  Unless you're among the tiny percentage of people who find all the problem sets easy, do make sure to work with other people.  The class will be extremely rewarding if you do so, and potentially coma-inducing if you don't.
If you're reading this, you're probably wondering whether this course is right for you. While obviously not for everyone, I got so much out of this course, it's almost difficult to believe. I am so much better at math, so much better equipped to take on the rest of math here at Harvard (or anywhere, basically) than I was at the beginning of the year.

I didn't go to MOP, I didn't even qualify for USAMO - these are not requirements. If you're willing to dedicate 30 hours a week to math, and that sounds like a great use of a semester to you, then you really should take this course. Just do it. DO IT.

(I want to use this space to dispel the rumor I heard while deciding to take this course that Math 55 take SIXTY HOURS a week to complete the psets. I spent nowhere close to this amount of time, and I was among the slower people in the class in this respect.)
