This class was perfect in terms of difficulty level, workload and topics covered, but is often confusing and hard to learn the material.
The textbook sucks, but Bamberg's lectures more than make up for it.
Although sometimes it seems like the material remains elusive, by the end things gradually come into focus; not always the most enthralling, life-altering experience, but it was generally interesting.
Only take this if you can't do math 25 or are bored in math 21.
Only take it if you really like to learn proofs.
Choose carefully between 21, 23 and 25, make sure you visit all three and find the best fit for you.
Work hard. 15 hours, at the very least.
Although I grew to love the class, I know that many did not. Students who choose to take the class should keep an open mind, and really spend some time with the material. The rewards are great.
It is very difficult to attempt the work in this class on one's own. Ingesting the material often involves conferring with classmates when neither lecture or section seems to enlighten. Don't think the textbook will be much help, either.
Take 21 if you haven't already done multivariate.
Its a great class for those between Math and Applied Math because of its broad nature, preparation in formal proofs, and application of science and economics.
Textbook is poor, Professor is often confusing, differentials are interesting to learn about, proof parties are a strength, heavy emphasis on physics.
you'll have to work hard and learn a lot on your own, but if you do that, you'll get through and be rewarded
This course is difficult, but if you're looking for a theoretical basis while still getting application, it is good.
It's the best combination between theoretical math and computational math.
It's not for everyone.  This is a class you have to WANT to take.  You have to WANT to put in the time and the effort to take this class.
Paul is such a great guy--really, he's a teddy bear. I loved this class, and taking it was my single best course decision this year.
if you're willing to work hard, go for it
Those who pursue this course should be comfortable with proofs.
Tough, but worthwhile
The concepts introduced in this course (for example, topics in real analysis, differential forms and manifold orientations) may be hard to grasp, and the teaching may not be the best around.
Take this if you really like math and you ar ewilling to dedicate a substantial amount of time to it. If you are more interested in your extra-curriculars or other courses do not bother. And it really helps to have done math beyong Calc I or AP Calc.
A good mix of proofs and application.
This class really increases your mathematical maturity.I had no knowledge of formal proofs, and although I'm not an expert at doing them, I can read them and understand them well.
Don't take it if you have other choices.
Good introduction to higher level math, not very time-consuming (as math 25 is) or conceptually difficult, nor simply computation (as math 21 is). Ideas behind the theory and certain proofs back up ideas, and as Dr. Bamberg says "often, it is important to be able to get the right number" (so there is a bit of computation and number-plugging as well).
This class is difficult, but it is definitely, definitely, worth the effort.  I have a teacher in High School who had graduated from Brown with a double major in Math and Physics, and he told me that this course presented the material in a manner better than any he had ever heard of before.  I enjoyed it, thoroughly, and though it was hard, I am incredibly glad I took it.  It was very rewarding (and Professor Bamberg is really fun!)
Dr. Bamberg is a horrible teacher. He's very enthusiastic about the mathematics that he teaches; however, he just can't teach.
If you're willing to work hard, this class is a great introduction to cool math concepts.
The material is difficult, and I know a number of potential math majors who chose other concentrations after this course. However, the class will push you and you will learn a lot. I also made a number of very good friends through the study group in this class; shared hardship strengthens friendship.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time every week on the problem sets
Not as fun as first term. Integration is boring.
It is a painless and interesting introduction to math.
make sure you like proofs and math :)
if you tend to like some theoretical math, but feel not confident about doing pure math with lots of proof: try math23.if you really like math and feel bored with application --> math25
This course is challenging, but very rewarding and fairly graded.
The course is somewhat physics biased, but presents the material in a concise, easy to follow manner. Does a great job covering the basic concepts required to generalize calculus to multiple variables. Different topics build on each other nicely.
If you do the assignments, you will be repaid with significant knowledge and high grades.
You learn a lot of very interesting and novel concepts, but be prepared to not understand concepts on the first try.
I regret not taking (or at least trying) 25a because I was often bored in the course.  This is not the fault of Dr. Bamberg because I have done a lot of outside math reading in my spare time.
Awesome class. Tests are really fair. Grading is easy. Bamberg is awesome.
awesome material, can be quite difficult at times, though
Interesting course.  You get both the theoretical and practical approach, and there is a good balance between the two.  It'll help you with physics/economics, where as Math 25 will NOT.  Math 21 will always help you for those other subjects, but Math 23 provides more theoretical understanding, which can be cool if it's what you're into.  The problem sets are a lot of work, and they will get frustrating (harder than Math 21), but the teacher is great, and it's a good class.
If you want a good math class and have multivariable and linear algebra background, this is a good class to take because it delves a little deeper into the topics and introduces new methods.  However, if you want a basic multivariable calculus or linear algebra class for applications, Math 21 is better.  If you want more theoretical math and more analysis, then Math 25 is better.
It is a good base for multivariable calculus, with a strong focus on concepts
I would recommend that anyone into especially physics shop this course in lieu of 21a, which seems to be more time-consuming and less interesting and insightful.
Take it to get a strong background in multivariable calculus, especially as applied in physics, and/or to get an introduction to proof-based math.
Don't.
Only take this course if it is a requirement
Be prepared to work hard, but if you do the grading will reward you.
If you want to major in math, Math 25 is probably better preparation for theoretical and higher level courses; otherwise, it might be more useful to take Math 21 if you only care about applications or fulfilling a requirement. Take Math 23b only if you shop the other two and genuinely think you're completely in the middle. The combination makes the course much more disorganized and less intensive/focused.
This class uses some odd conventions, like measuring phi from the "equator" rather from the "north pole" on a sphere, and some things for partial derivatives, but since I haven't taken enough physics and math classes beyond this, I can't tell you whether this is a minor annoyance or a big stumbling block. I can tell you that it's surprisingly fun for a math class, particularly gorging yourself on Berryline during proof parties.
Be prepared to put in a lot of effort. Your success is directly correlated to the amount of effort you put into grasping course concept and finding answers to your questions- it wont be easy.
Very comparable to 23a. Provides nice exposure to some theoretical mathematics without the pressure of needing to completely understand all the rigorous components of the course. A good class if you're thinking of concentrating in Math and want to know what upper-level math is like, or even if you're not and you are interested in math for math's sake as well as its applications.
This class isn't terribly difficult if you stay on top of the material. If you go to lecture, and then watch through important parts of the lectures (or skimming the textbook) before doing problem sets, you'll breeze through the homework and not have much to study before the quizzes. Paul is very open, friendly, informative, and creative. Also, the CAs seemed to have a pretty strong network, and were generally smart and informative (and almost all from 23a/b).
the class is not super rigorous, mathematically speaking. it's leaning more toward the applied side, but it's kinda fun/easy~ so choose depending on how theoretical you want ur math class to be
Don't believe the hype!  Math 23 is a very unique course that ties together math subjects traditionally taught separately in a very unified and insightful format that will deepen your understanding of multi-variable calculus, linear algebra, and differential forms.  The proof system - though quirky - is nonetheless very helpful in that it forces you to present proofs, which is a skill that is good to practice no matter what.  You will spend less time every week on homework than the math 25 kids, learn a lot, get your feet wet with theoretical math and proofs, and be in a really good position for any future math class you want to take... so, why not?
Math 23b... is a lot of things. If you took 23a, well, you pretty much know what you're getting into, though I think some concepts from this semester are somewhat funkier (at the same time, there is also some easier/more calculational stuff). Paul's teaching is still the same: quite a bit of material, tons of examples, though you may or may not actually come out of lecture feeling like you immediately learned anything given the obsession with outline-filling and sometimes iffy explanations. For what it's worth, Math 23 (a and b, really) does serve as a fair intermediate between 21 and 25: gets into some theory but also with calculation and applications, hard but not too much so. However, if you want more mathematical rigor and can handle the work, or want less theoretical stuff and a more straightforwardly run class, do seriously consider math 25 or 21 (or audit/fangirl one for kicks!), even if you took 23a. But you'll never learn some life skills, like how much glaze to put on a doughnut. And tzi will miss you.
Great course, especially if you like physics.
Paul Bamberg causes a polarization in students. If you sit in on the class the first few classes and don't like his method of teaching, then move up to 25 or down to 21. If you took 23a, 23b is the same format. The material itself is slightly more difficult, but I feel that I've gotten used to Paul, so it doesn't seem as difficult.Students who took 23a will tend to slack off more this semester by neglecting proofs, etc. Keep on top of your work! The proofs are more varied in proof structure, so it's more of an effort to keep up.
Definitely harder than Math 23a. However, 23b is definitely taught in a more organized way than Math 23b, and be sure to take advantage of Paul's office hours as well as your CA's office hours - they are extremely knowledgeable and willing to help you in any way possible. Put the effort in, and you'll be able to learn the material!
Great class overall for both semesters. Final is tougher than quizzes. Course prepares you well for quizzes and exams.
Paul is very enthusiastic and loves teaching.  Make sure to start the p-sets early.
Harder than 23a: more theoretical. But if you took 23a, you have to take it - sucks to be you!
I strongly recommend this course to anyone who is interested in math (not necessarily as a career or concentration option) and wants a better understanding of the things you learn and to learn why things work.
This course can be confusing and easy to procrastinate in, but if you stay on top of lectures and proofs and reading, it is not as bad as people say it is.
For me it was challenging, but I got a lot out of it. I'm not a person naturally talented at math, but throughout the semester I trained a different type of thinking for myself.
Like math. Or else.
I probably liked 23b more than 23a.  The problem sets were more challenging, but the material wasn't inaccessible.
23b is definitely more challenging than 23a, the proofs are more convoluted, the homeworks are more rigorous, and the lectures are worse. However, if you're wiling to stick it out 'til the end, it pays off. Stokes theorem, form fields, and the physics applications are interesting and very useful. The quizzes are harder than 23b and the final will stress you out. As usual though, Paul and the CAs are very accommodating and if you work hard enough you'll be fine. If you're not friends already with a lot of people in the class, you'll become even closer this semester as you suffer through proofs and problem sets.
Some people like it, some people don't.  I thought it was a great course which offered a broad introduction to theoretical math and proof strategy as well as teaching the practical stuff you'll need later on.  However, for this course to really be worth it, you need to put the time in; otherwise you will end up memorizing proofs and being frustrated by the course's occasionally sporadic progression.  Another important note is the social aspect of this course.  For such a large lecture course one really gets close to their fellow classmates; by the end of the course late-night hw sessions and proof parties end up creating quite the social network of math geeks and humanities majors.
Bamberg is a great teacher.  Take this class if you are interested in the applications of math.
this class ended up as one of my least favorite experiences of freshman year. memorizing proofs was awful and pointless -- the emphasis was more on memorizing the proof than on learning what the proof actually meant or what applications it had. they say we just have to "learn the steps" of the proofs instead of memorizing them, but let's be realistic: that's just another way of saying we have to memorize them. besides proofs, by the end of the course it was almost a physics class. if you're interested in something else, much of the second half of 23b is pointless. there are a couple of contrived economics examples that don't seem to actually have anything to do with economics, and little else besides physics. for a math class that promises to teach both abstract stuff and "applications," there sure weren't many useful nonphysics applications. i also grew weary of having to hear about paul's fancy vacations and former career with some software company that's not nearly as big of a deal as he thinks it is. overall, i would just say to avoid this class (i sure wish i had) unless you really really liked 23a and also wanna do physics.
Difficult class if you don't have friends in the class. Problem sets can be very obtuse. Class is not for those interested in practical applications. Can become very theoretical. Harder than Math 23a.
This is a great class. If you plan to go further in mathematics this course will be great as you won't need to take other courses as pre requirements for some of the upper level courses in mathematics. I would definitely recommend this course over 21, but it also requires much more time. Stay on top of your proofs. Learning them as they appear in lecture will not only save you from a horrible fate at the end of the semester, but understanding the concepts behind the proofs are essential for understanding what is happening in lecture.
I found the material in Math 23b to be harder than Math 23a because it is more about geometric calculus than linear algebra. However, it was still a great choice because it challenges more than 21b, without taking over your life like the higher levels. Definitely find a group to do psets with.
I feel that this class is extremely well-taught, and extremely organized; that it is more thoughtfully constructed than almost any other class I have taken here, and that it has taught me a great deal about the subject and methodology. I am really and truly satisfied with what I have learned, and I've been grateful for this class for the entire time I've taken it--it's been a great experience.
This course is for you if you enjoy memorizing proof after proof, even though the proofs themselves do not help you understand the concepts in any way.  Bamberg spends way too much time in the technicalities of each step of the proof and too much time self-aggrandizing and talking about his expensive summer homes in the Adirondacks.  This is instead of actually explaining the significance of the results of each proof, and what the takeaway message of the proofs should be.  I found myself simply memorizing what to write down, without actually knowing why I was doing it and why the result was important.  If you are taking math in order to concentrate in something science related (physics, economics, chemistry, etc) i would strongly suggest taking Math 21a and b instead.
Similar in style to Math 23a. Work is tough but manageable. You will spend a decent amount of time on psets especially if you want to understand the material fully. It is interesting and especially good if you are looking to do something in physics.
This could be subtitled "Multivariable Integration with Physical Applications" so be conscious that that is pretty much all you do all semester.  Granted, I thought learning form fields was useful and interesting, but on the whole, there isn't as much interesting proof-based stuff to look forward to.  But Paul really cares about all his students and it shows.  Go to office hours and he will undoubtedly give you interesting supplemental stuff if you are interested.
Math 23 is by no means an easy class, but it's a perfect choice for students who want to try serious mathematics out without too much of a background. Math 23 also makes use of unorthodox notation that is generally not used in other classes. However, the concepts developed are extremely interesting and worth the effort.
My favorite class this year :) Paul is such a great lecturer and really cares about his students. It's an extremely social class, which I love - I felt I had established a great community of math friends by the end of the year. It's well-organized, well-taught, and the assignments/quizzes/exam are very fair. Paul knows how to perfectly time his lectures while still adding in funny stories and jokes along the way - he's so great!
It is a really tough course with a large work load, but it is extremely rewarding.
This class is good if you think you might actually get into math, or if you are going into Physics.
Take 25.
If you're not interested in theory, take Math 21. If you like proofs, take Math 25. Math 23 tries to combine the two and ends up with the worst of both worlds--stupid number crunching examples that you'll probably never do again in your life, or proofs of either trivial lemmas or vague textbook exercises.
So much to say here - I'll break it down component by component.Lectures:  lectures were mildly enlightening.  In general, I found them difficult to follow during the last month.  Also, guided notes are simply not an effective way to teach.  The projector was blurry and hard to read, despite sitting relatively close.Sections:  absolutely abysmal and useless.  We never did any practice problems, the Tf went on ridiculous and useless tangents.  Typical section attendance hovered around 3-4 people.  Homework:  the only part of the class where it was possible to actually learn.  Widely varied from reasonable to unpleasant computations to ridiculously difficult (we didn't have the background or motivation to really get at them).  Was ok overall.  However, a major disincentive to actually do the work was that they were essentially the same as the previous years' problems, all of which had solutions posted online on the course website for last year.  Among students, there was widespread copying of the solutions and actual understanding of the material seemed low.Quizzes:  relatively easy if you did the homework and actually understood it.  again, memorizing proofs - Dr. Bamberg claims its about learning and not memorizing but ultimately there is so much esoteric notation that even with a full understanding of the concepts, there was still a lot of tedium involved with learning them.  also, they were much easier given that the were recycled from previous years (for example, this year's quizzes one and two were the practice quizzes from 2007 - available online.  several people had seen the problems ahead of time and after the first quiz just studied the second one in hopes that Bamberg would recycle again and he sure did.)Which brings me to grading:  since the quizzes and hw were all essentially dropped in our laps (solutions online and available) the only thing that differentiates people in this class is the final.  also, the whole presenting of proofs systems, while theoretically good, is broken because:1) people form "proof cartels" - groups of 5 people that then host a bunch of proof parties at the end of term to maximize their extra credit that ostensibly is for bringing people together to do math2) there's absolutely no control on who approves who.   people just approve people for the points.In sum, almost every aspect of this course is seriously flawed, which led to the rating of unsatisfactory.  In short, future generations:  don't take this class or math 23a.  If you were good at math in high school (math contests or just did a lot of work) take 25.  You'll learn something and the course will be better organized.  If you just want to learn math for your other, non-math field, 21 is better.  If you want to take higher level math later, take the extra course and save yourself the grief.It's a shame that Harvard allows this class to be so poorly taught - there is a large niche of people who fit what 23 should be, but instead are left angry, bitter and resentful.
This is really a great course. Follows up well with 23a: the emphasis on differential forms towards the end of the class provided for a rigorous, but manageable to comprehend, treatment of multivariable calculus that you don't really get in either 21 or 25. Paul is an excellent teacher who really does his best to make the material interesting and understandable.
Contrary to what many people say, it's a great class!
Try not to skip lectures, be prepared to study hard
This class will expose you to a variety of topics in mathematics, and by the end you will be well-versed in both rigorous and applicable methods. However, you probably won't be satisfied with the level of focus spent on individual topics.
Do you want math that is actually useful? Take this class!
Math 23b is a natural continuation of 23a, focusing on integration instead of differentiation. I thought the topics were less "random" in 23b; the lack of logical continuity between subjects was one complaint several students had with 23a, and I didn't feel this was an issue here. You should be aware, however, that although the "standard vector calculus" topics are taught, they are presented in a very different way from traditional multivariable calculus classes. Line integral and surface integrals, for example, aren't presented in the traditional way but rather through integration of work forms and flux forms. This different approach will suit some students and be EXTREMELY frustrating for others. If you've taken 23a, as most students will have, you'll know what to expect.This class is also intended to provide a mix of applied, computational, and theoretical mathematics. The theory aspect is somewhat lacking however, and if you're interested in learning rigorous mathematics and have appropriate background this may not be the course for you. There is also still a lot of memorization of proofs, which is usually unhelpful and doesn't really give exposure to the logical strategies needed to solve proofs because you essentially memorize them and that's that.Finally, workload in the class is very fair. Problem Sets test advanced applications of concepts taught in class while quizzes present fundamental principles. Grading is fair and course expectations are clearly stated.
23b is a continuation of 23a, but expect the material to be more difficult and the quizzes, homework, and final to be harder than they were in 23a as well. Take the time to truly understand the material and you will find that you're learning about some really cool stuff! Be warned, the end of the course gets very physics-y which was frustrating at times because the calculations and equations did not hold much significance for those who have not yet taken Physics 15b.
This course balances learning proofs and solving computational problems. It is a good choice for those who have taken multivariable before or for those who want some exposure to proofs while still having a computational background. If you took Math 23a in the fall, you should probably take Math 23b, as the course has its own sequence of topics which is different from the Math 21 sequence.
Good class, more rigorous than Math21 but a little less proofy than Math25. I made the right choice.
In retrospect this was the right class for me. I have mixed feelings about the whole 23 series, but if you took 23a you should be fine. its very similar in workload and pace, but perhaps a bit lighter in both respects.
This course is very good. Paul somehow manages to take a completely ignorant high school student and turn him/her into a great economist/good physicist/decent mathematician. The language this course uses will come up again and again in probability theory, analysis, physics, etc...This course is definitely one of the best I've taken here.
I would suggest only taking Math 23b if you're certain you would not fit in either 21b or 25b... very few people enjoyed the course and I came away feeling like I had learned very little in proportion to the amount of time I put in.
When choosing a multivariable course, consider the teacher as well. Paul is very entertaining in the lecture hall and you won't regret choosing him to teach you.
A great class, but be sure you can deal with Paul's teaching style.
Keep up with the work! I got a lot more out of 23a because I put in more effort on the p-sets, kept up with the proofs, and generally kept better track of the material.  This semester, I ended up cramming the night before the exam, and the material didn't register as well as last semester.
This course is great for people looking for a more theoretical approach to math, but with some applications. I personally struggle a little more with math, so the course was consistently a challenge, but my peers were always glad to help. The opportunities for Texing quizzes and proofs and holding proof parties created a nice buffer in case of a botched quiz.
The course isn't as good as 23a. I don't really like integration, and this entire course was integration. It is useful though to stick it out to the end, but don't plan on it being one of your favorite classes.
Don't take this class if you don't like theory or find it difficult to grasp concepts without real-life examples.
interesting presentation of course material, good professor, nice class atmosphere; class structure (proof parties, etc) a little unwieldy
You definitely learn a lot of math in this class, but it is more applied and less theoretical than math 25. I certainly enjoyed the course. It is difficult, but the grading system is more than fair.
Math 23b is the same in presentation as Math 23a, so those of you who have taken 23a can understand how it will be run. The level of difficulty is slightly harder, but I found that I had a stronger basis for math due to 23a, so all in all, it evened out. Well-organized and Paul is very approachable and always willing to answer questions. If you liked Math 23a, then continue on with 23b!
if you want a little bit of proof but are not quite ready for 25 this is a good way to go
You'll probably regret taking this class. Just get off the fence and take 25 or 21, whichever is more appropriate for you.
Bamberg is the man. The problem sets are a pain, as are the proofs. But if you put a decent amount of effort, come final period, you will feel amazed at how much you learned, how well you know it, and how applicable it is.
don't take the course unless you like math a lot. how much you get out of the course and how much you understand the material is entirely up to you, as the quizzes are generally not that hard and there is a lot more to be learned than is taught.
Math 23 pushed me to exert myself harder on math than I've ever done before, and I'm proud of the effort I put into it, even though it ate a lot of my time
Even though the textbook is kind of bad, Professor Bamberg compensates by always being available to answer questions and give concentration advice.  If you approach him, he will always try his best to aid you.
If you're willing to work with your peers, you can complete this course.
Definitely take this course - Prof Bamberg is a great teacher, and both he and the section leaders are always open to questions,etc.  While the course is lacking in rigorous attention to the mathematics, it does give a nice introduction to the basic concepts of linear algebra and multivariable calculus (and some analysis as well) for the less theoretically inclined.  If you think, even just a moment, that you might enjoy a purely theoretical treatment of mathematics, definitely shop both this and Math 25 before deciding.
A midway between 21 and 25. There will be a lot of physics and sometimes the problems get annoying. However, Paul is very nice and always willing to help.
I took multivariable calculus and linear algebra in high school and was deciding between 21 and 23. My reasoning for possibly choosing 21 was to strengthen my multi/linalg background, as I felt like it was a little shaky from high school. But I also wanted to take a proof-based class, which I've never really taken before, and 23 might give me a deeper understanding of the concepts and proofs behind what I learned in multi/linalg.Not too long into the year, I realized that I had made the right decision by going with 23. I would not have learned anything more than I'd already learned in 21 -- 21 was taught much the same way and with the same textbook, and it wasn't any more in-depth than my high school class. However, I've learned so much in 23, and while it was a lot of work, it was definitely worth it. I feel much more comfortable doing proofs, I've learned LaTeX and Mathematica, and there have been so many times during the year when I've realized, "OH! THAT is why [something I learned in multi/linalg] is true! I never knew that! That's really cool!" Highly recommend this course.
This course allows you to understand and generalize multivariable calculus in a way that is much simpler and elegant than what it taught in most Calc III classes.  By the end of the course, you'll be summarize Maxwell's Equations in just two simple, practical expressions, like E=mc^2.
Paul...aka Bamberg aka Bambi aka the Bambino aka all around BAMF...is awesome. He is the nicest professor I've seen who actually legitimately and genuinley cares about his students. He is so nice and helpful and makes every effort to help his students get an A. After I had done fairly badly on a few tests, Paul e-mailed me and set up a time for me and him to go through the parts of the course and tests that were giving me difficulty. He is awesome! Besides Paul, this course also has really great material. While lecture can get a bit dry and the proofs can get frustrating sometimes, it is really interesting look at math and changed how I approached the whole field. It's perfect for kids who are scared by Math 25 (rightly so...is it true they use NO numbers?) and who think math 21 will be too close to multivariable in high school. The psets are manageable and the whole proof system and lack of curve make getting a good grade really realistic. TAKE IT!
Take it if you've never taken a theory-based class before and you'd like to try something. The class is somewhat rigorous, but the support system is really strong if you're willing to take the extra time.
This material is necessary for math and physics concentrators and helpful for astronomy, statistics, economics, and some biology and chemistry majors.
Lectures are boring, sections are bad, feedback is bad. It is not too hard to get a good grade if you are willing to put in the work.  And if you do put in the work, you actually learn the material.  If you have a group of people to do problem sets with and talk about the material, the course isn't terribly painful.  I can't imagine how it would be if you don't have this.  If you've taken 23a, then 23b is probably the best path.  Expect a similar experience to the first semester, with a little more work as the material is a little harder.
This class is a good balance if you're interested in math on a more theoretical level than Math 21 offers but don't want to devote your entire life to math (Math 25). Grading is fairly easy, and problem sets are doable if you work with others.
This course is great as long as you are able to process and cope with some of its quirks--the outline-projector system is a bit annoying at times, but my CA was usually good at ironing out stuff we didn't understand in section.  The problem sets are detailed and rewarding.  My most important recommendation is to be prepared for the quizzes.  You don't want to be in the unhappy situation of understanding a group of outlines better once the quiz is over.
If you took nothing past BC in high school, but you want to understand topics in math in a way slightly different from just being force-fed unsubstantiated "facts", Math 23 is a class that will challenge you, and make you think in a more sophisticated way, but it is eminently doable--I took nothing past BC in high school, and I had no problem doing well in the  class. It is ideal for those curious about more sophisticated math but who have no prior background other than high school calculus. The teacher is hilarious and dedicated, the hw is beautifully crafted, and you learn a ton---take it!!!
The course offers an interesting balance of theoretical and applied math for those who don't know which they want to continue studying.  Truly a mix between the completely applied math of 21 and the pure proof-based math of 25.The course involves working around a fairly complicated grading system that can sometimes take away from the material itself because students focus on figuring out how to work the system.  Additionally, know that lectures consist of filling in the empty spaces in pre-made lecture outlines.  If you want a class that offers you an uncomplicated and independent method for learning math, this probably isn't it.
Good mix of theory and application.  Less time consuming than 25 but more rigorous than 21.
AVOID AT ALL COSTS.  Lectures involve simply writing in blank spaces on lecture outlines.  Proofs were absolutely pointless - sure, I know the Arzela-Ascoli theorem, but I know absolutely nothing of real analysis.  The problem sets usually have such contrived problems that I don't really learn anything about the material at all.  Sections were miserable - the CAs didn't help you learn the material at all (and I went to more than one section).  The class assumes far beyond AP Calculus -- my CA was shocked when the majority of section said they didn't know how to set up limits of integration for multiple-variable surfaces.  The book is absolutely heinous, and doesn't help learn the material at all.  Take the exterior derivative of a form from the definition?  The book skips over this (among other things that Bamberg deems "all-important") and thus I must rely solely on what's in the lecture notes to get by.  Oh, and guess what?  The lecture notes don't explain it well enough to actually help, since they only explain specific situations and don't go into how to do it generally.  So let's turn to a CA.  Oh wait, I forgot that sections themselves are dedicated to pointless expansions on the material, weak explanations, and presenting the pointless proofs to the class.  When it comes to the final, how could Bamberg be shocked that few students actually do well?  For once he gives us problems that the problem sets should've reflected, and the students (or at least the ones who didn't come from higher-preparation backgrounds) have no idea what is going on.  The solutions to the problem sets aren't even accurate! The CA's don't actually do the solutions themselves, they just take solutions from previous years, which are ridden with errors, but the CA's don't proofread them apparently.  Also, we never find out the true answers to the practice quizzes - on some, half the students give one answer, half give another, and so you are stuck unsure which logic is correct.  And after all this, I'll probably get an A- in the class, which I don't even deserve.
This class is hard to understand and not taught that well...you will do a lot of learning on the psets, however.
This is an interesting class because it bridges both rigorous math with its applications.  It's not too much work, but at times the material can lean a little to the uninteresting side.  On the other hand, the professor is really dedicated to making sure we understand the material, and he gives a lot of opportunities for extra practice and such that really are helpful.
This class would be great, if Bamberg didn't teach it... Or realized it was a MATH class, not a PHYSICS class.
Overall, I enjoyed this course more than 23a.  Very interesting material and cool applications to physics, which is great if you are planning to concentrate in that.  Recommended over 21a/b for those who have previously taken courses in multivariable calculus and/or linear algebra.
Much better than 23a from a physicists standpoint.  Great applications to the things you learn in physics.  Still, don't recommend it unless you're actually enthusiastic about learning the proofs.
The material of this class is interesting, but only take the class if you want to be challenged.
For some people, this class works. For others, it doesn't. If you want to do high-level Econ, probably not worth taking any higher level course, but it's good to know proof strategies, so this may be the course for you.
Its not that hard/time-consuming. You can get a good grade if you want it. Yes, the material is harder than 21, but you learn so much more.
If you don't have much of a math background, this is probably a good introductory course to higher math. If you do, this course is not a lot of work, but is nontrivial, so it still takes some time.
This class takes significantly less time than Math 25 while still ostensibly fulfilling the same requirements. It is much less painful than Math 25, but even an excellent Math 25a student would still find interesting things to learn in this class. Also, you will probably learn more useful skills in multivariable calculus in this course. I dropped from Math 25a to math 23b to make more time for my other courses, and I don't regret it. Many of my former classmates now regret taking 25b, since the material can get very dry in 25b.
Unless you pursue theoretical mathematics, then take this class.
A lot of work, Paul's teaching style you will either hate or love.
It seems daunting, but the grading isn't bad and it actually is easier than it seems.
This class is a great way to get to know other students!  It is fun and challenging, although the spring final is MUCH more difficult than the fall final.
This class is good if you're good at working hard.
Of the multivariable calculus/linear algebra courses offered at Harvard, the 23 series is the best.  Bamberg is an excellent professor, and it's easy to get a good grade if one keeps up with the problem sets and proofs.
23b is harder than 23a. Make sure you stay on top of the material. It's very hard to learn everything at the end on top of having to memorize proofs. Go to office hours, Paul is very willing to help.
Difficult, but rewarding, especially if you study physics. If you like Math 23a, you will like this class. If you didn't like math 23a, you may still like this class nonetheless.
If you took 23a and are on the border of deciding whether to take 23b, TAKE IT! I wasn't so crazy about 23a but 23b really brings everything together into a cohesive whole. Also, since you already are comfortable with proofs and with the format of the course for 23a, you can really just focus on understanding the material. Certainly, the class was still challenging (especially the second half of the course -- quiz 3 material and on), but I think it is a great course.
About the same as 23a. A little easier because you are used to the style of the course.
Some linear algebra experience would be helpful. Also, familiarity with set theory symbols and conventions. Keep in mind that these "proofs" are very different from the geometry proofs you learned in middle school.
Try to watch the lectures (if you can't make it to class) and start the psets well in advance of the homework due dates. That will save you a lot of stressing.
This course is truly for those students who enjoy applied Math but want to learn some of the theory behind it.  That said this course will require a lot of hours worked on psets and the final is challenging.  Paul is also hard to follow in lectures and the course can seem a bit confusing at times.
Tough course, but learn a lot of neat things. If you've taken 23a, you'll know the drill - if you do all the proofs, some extra credit and tex a quiz you'll get a good grade. I found the material less daunting than 23a, and definitely more rewarding to get through.
A bit easy, and somewhat hand-wavey, but generally for someone without much experience in proofs the class is great
whereas 23a helps you think mathematically and for CS type stuff, 23b continues that thinking and applies it to integrals, which is cool. but some of the stuff Paul taught, which he claims will be useful for physics a lot, i found just straight up irrelevant at times. though it definitely had its moments.
This was the third class I was fortunate to take with Paul Bamberg after 23a and 117 and will surely not be my last. Paul is a phenomenal teacher. He presents the material in an effective manner and also generates enthusiasm for the class. The assignments are the perfect level of difficulty and very rewarding to the student.He also manages to create a class that is very rigorous but not stressful. Outside of class he is approachable and fun. This is a great class and a must take as an Applied Math concentrator. It is highly relevant to applied and pure math. Surely take 23a.b over 21a,b!
If you have lots of time to do math, do not take this course. This course is designed to program you into solving problems while still showing you the reasoning behind the techniques, but without emphasizing creativity on your part. If you want to do some real math, take 25 or 55.
Paul Bamberg is an amazing lecturer! Though the course may seem difficult at times, it ultimately leaves you with a greater understanding and appreciation of mathematics as a whole.
I am SOOO glad that I took Math 23 over any other option because I really value what I learnt from being able to do proofs and the material was integrated, cohesive, effective, and stimulating! Coming from 23a - expect the same thing, and just take the second half because you are really incomplete in your math knowledge without it! Multivariable integration is KEY skill!
Math 23b generates a lot of mixed feelings, but I really think its a great course. The curriculum is really brilliantly organized, taking us from different methods of integration into vector calculus and manifolds then back to integration. As Paul says, you'll be the "only kid on your block" who can provide an informal proof for Stokes' Theorem if you go on in physics, and you'll already be a step ahead in future analysis courses, knowing how to prove the Ascoli-Arzela theorem. I will say the problem sets can be a little tedious, and the final exam was much harder than I was prepared for. But the proof system is actually really fun and adds a social dimension to the course, making this overall the best multivariable course for someone who is too interested in mathematical concepts to take the number-crunching 21a,b and too sane to take the plunge on 25a,b or 55a,b.
A difficult class, but definitely worth it. I felt like I learned a lot of material and have a greater appreciation for math.
If you didn't completely hate 23a, you might as well continue because this is the only class that will round out this level of math education.  (Congratulations, you're stuck!)  I found people even more sociable than they had been in 23a, which was really nice.  The class is significantly smaller and I had a better chance to get to know other students and CAs.
Most likely you have already taken Math 23a, so you already have a pretty good idea of what to expect. Math 23b is more concrete than 23a- the last three or four outlines are almost entirely application. You also finally do a long unit of Real Analysis- you'll hate it at the time if you're like most people in this course, but it proves very, very useful if you decide to pursue other abstract math courses. Also, almost all of the applications in this course are Physics related- so if you hate Physics, you will hate Math 23b.
Math 23b is a good follow-up to Math 23a, but the same sort of issues arise. It's the awkward in-between class between Math 21 and Math 25, so it teaches analysis along with multivariable calculus and linear algebra. During the middle of the term it was frequently unclear how each topic that we looked at related to the previous ones. It wasn't until the end of the term that it started to come together. Also, during lectures, I'm usually too focused on filling in the lecture outlines to actually listen to the lecturer. The amount of work in this class is pretty comparable to Math 23a. One thing I didn't like about the proofs was having to memorize them. I felt that some were unclearly presented, and many students didn't fully understand them, so this leads to rote memorization. I don't think that memorizing proofs helped me become better at writing my own proofs. Although I enjoyed the proof party aspect of Math 23, I disliked memorizing proofs for the midterms and final exams because I thought it took away time to actually learn the material.Another thing to note is that this course goes heavily into physics applications, which some students will like if they've taken physics and understand what the physics terms all mean, but others who don't really understand it will be confused.
AMAZING!! So much better than Math23a. You learn way more in terms of applications.
Math 23b was one of the best and worst classes that I took freshman year.  People bond over Math 23- the proof parties, the problem sets.  Its always a great community of students, and a great opportunity to get to know people.  At the same time its very challenging, and requires a lot of work and dedication.  Take this class only if you like math.  Also get Isabel as a TF, cause she's the best.
Use your classmates, go to office hours! If you don't understand something, it's OK! Part of the fun is working through difficult problems together. Form a study group, work on the p-set on your own, and then compare answers/work on difficult parts together.
It was a good course, but could've been taught better. Also the lack of participation and enthusiasm for the course were downers.
It's very similar to math 23a in terms of structure and such. You do learn some more interesting topics this semester though.
This is a great class if the last math course you took was Calc BC. It introduced rigorous proof-writing very well.
Similar to 23a but the material all came together more in the end.  grades are a bit harsher but still well worth taking.  Favorite class at Harvard.  Proofs are easier to learn this semester as you already have some experience with them.
This class is the perfect mix of theory and application for physics or ec concentrators - much more useful than 25 (which basically doesn't teach how to do problems). The outline note-taking method is great, these are the only notes I really use.
Taking this class was the best decision I made this year. Extremely challenging, but very rewarding in the end. I recommend this as highly as humanly possible.
If you've taken 23a, you know what to expect. The course is taught in classic Bamberg style, with plenty of chances to catch up if you have a bad few days. I found the material this semester to be much more cohesive and engaging, but also far more computational and therefore tedious to work through. You're far more likely to make silly algebraic errors this semester. If you have the time in your schedule and thoroughly enjoyed 23a, then perhaps switch up to 25. If you get to the of 23a and still find that you care about applied math (which is beyond me) then stay with this class. I don't think there's much point switching down - the workload for this class is not that bad.
Paul is great! He has such a quirky sense of humor and makes lectures very enjoyable. He teaches through guided notes, and frankly, I wouldn't know what to do without his course notes. They are an absolute godsend. Studying for midterms and finals, the course notes contain the bulk of what you need to know. Looking back at a year of 23 (with no prior real proof experience), I'm really amazed at so much of what I have learned to do. 23 covers a wide range of topics that though seem pretty disconnected initially, are actually beautifully woven together as you'll start realizing at the end of the course,Kate is the best. She is so approachable, and this term she did eight of the Thursday lectures, all of which were really fun and great. She took the class not too long ago, so she knows the class from both viewpoints. Her insight in this way is hugely valuable. Her explanations are always very spot on. And it doesn't hurt that she is hilarious.Unfortunately, I don't think Paul will be teaching the 23 series next year, so everything can change dramatically. Kate will remain though, and she really is great.
23b is a bit more difficult than 23a, so don't stop working as hard as you did then!Also, try as hard as possible to get into Isabel Vogt's section.
It's an interesting course, but its very difficult and time consuming. If you aren't familiar with proof-based math, don't take this course (unless you're willing to work very hard). The textbook is in general useless (except the psets come from it).
The class will likely change, but the class is sandwiched between useful and theoretical, ultimately being neither (thanks to the density of the lectures).
I think that this course is probably best for those who don't mind learning a lot of the material on their own.  It tries to occupy the space between theoretical and applied mathematics, but sometimes the execution is questionable.  The lectures aren't particularly enlightening, but with the help of the notes and some time, it's pretty easy to figure out most of the material.  If you're trying to decide between 21 and 23, then I would definitely recommend that you try 23.
Don't take this class. Math 25b and 21b both exist as options -- choose one and stick with it. The instructor (Bamberg) is enthusiastic and well-meaning but seems to be completely unaware of how his own course unfolds. The proof system has no pedagogical value whatsoever, simply offering another avenue for weak students endowed with free time to seek extra credit. (As an aside: many students in this class have no dignity, a fact that the course goes all to far to accommodate.) By the way, what is the deal with extra credit? There is essentially a decoupling between grading and mastery of the course material; furthermore, however, there is a decoupling between course material "mastery" and actual proficiency in linear algebra, real analysis, or vector calculus -- a fact that the CAs freely acknowledge. Basically, this class will teach you nothing in a very painful way, while making you hate math for no reason and (probably) confusing you in later courses. Save yourself the trouble.
Be wary of being left behind. If you're on top of your work, and able to step back from it once in a while, you will realize the beauty of this course. It's the most well structured, transparent course I ever took. Paul is a sweetheart- he seems weird but he really is just a regular math prof. Get to know him better- he won't make you feel stupid, though you'd think he would.
You kind of have to take it if you did 23a. Honestly, the proofs are tedious, the third part of the class takes forever to start making sense. About the same as 23a, slightly worse.
This is a good class if you are unsure about where your mathematical future will lead.  I think it is easy to go in either a theoretical or an applied direction with the material in this class, so in that way it keeps the options open.  Definitely a better class than 23a, although it is still at times a little bit difficult to understand.
After Math 23a, I had hope that 23b would redeem the struggles of fall semester and make the entire 23-sequence worth it. I hate to say this, but I was wrong. The proofs in 23b become even more hand-wavey, the material becomes less interesting, and it's still the same exact format of lecture/section/extremely frustrating problem sets. It was a huge improvement over 23a in that the problem sets and group problems were shorter (and no more R in lecture!!!!!), but we never actually learn any concepts in lecture, and problem sets aren't so much difficult as they are frustrating. You spend more hours trying to decode opaque wording and fruitlessly searching your lecture notes for explanations than you will actually thinking about math. To be completely honest, I wish I had taken Math 21 or 25. I really liked the idea of this class because I wanted a taste of higher-level math but didn't have the proper preparation for 25. However, I ended up just memorizing proofs and not actually understanding any concepts. That being said, some of my best friends are friends I've met through this course. It bonds you in ways no one else will ever understand. I also have enough exposure to higher-level math to hold a decently intelligent conversation with Math 25 friends while also understanding enough computation to solve some fundamental physics problems. (Now that I mention it, the latter part of Math 23b actually feels more like a physics course than a math course.) All in all, I don't regret taking this course because it built character and discipline and connected me with some amazing people. However, it probably completely consumed my freshman year.
This class is about physics. If you don't enjoy physics, or at least don't know much about physics , then don't take this class. Paul's favorite question to ask in lecture is "So who here is in Physics 15 or Physics 153?". He will then go on to demonstrate some profound technique that makes the math in those classes trivial. The problem is, if you are not taking those classes, you will not understand the motivation behind doing it Paul's way. The first semester of math 23 wasn't so bad, because it's hard to tie together physics and real analysis, but once Paul had multivariable calculus, he sure took advantage of it. That's not to say this course didn't improve from the first semester: in fact, I think it was far better organized. The removal of R scripts and executive summaries was a huge plus, and the lectures were far better at building intuition. However, despite the promise of shorter, easier problem sets this semester, the questions on the problems turned out to be less in number but far more difficult. I get it. Paul taught physics for forever, he knows a lot about physics, and he loves teaching physics.
This course does a pretty good job at skirting the line between more applied math and more theoretical math. I found the lectures really difficult to get through, Paul mainly just reads and reproduces his past notes which is hard, and I honestly found going to lecture pointless. I also found the approach to the material to be slightly esoteric, and I'm not sure how much I will be able to use the material in the future. I might recommend 21 instead.
This class is very difficult but very rewarding. It is less difficult than Math23a, I think. I also think that the course improved a lot from the Fall Semester to the Spring Semester. Lectures were better without the use of R and the lecture outlines were better than the Executive Summaries (although we could not use them during exams, as we did with the executive summaries in the fall semester.) I highly recommend this course. I think it is more fun and easier than Math 23a. I also think that you know what to expect from the material and from Paul and Kate. It is still hard, but you know how to handle it. I would also recommend studying with friends. It makes it much more enjoyable and you learn more.
Keep up with the weekly group problems and proofs. You will need to go over them all again anyway before exam time, so it will be tough if that's the first time you're seeing any material. Paul designs the class to come together nicely over the semester and definitely over the whole year, which I didn't appreciate fully until well into this semester. Early section is very helpful, while I almost never went to late section; get to know the people in your section group so you can help each other, and also definitely establish a weekly pset group.
Go to class, pay attention, and make good friends! Some of my good friends are definitely from my pset-ing group for this class, and if you follow what Paul says, you will definitely take away more from the course.
23b is continuation of 23a, except now you will mostly be dealing with integrating situations. While the lectures were not the most engaging, the course material we are covering are both very deep and powerful, and could be used in many contexts (especially physics).
Paul took in and incorporated all the feedback that students in 23a gave him, and this course is so much better as a result. If you continue to give him feedback, this course could become one of the best.
This class is an excellent option for multivariable calculus. I would not recommend taking it without 23a, but it's a reasonably challenging class that does an excellent job of teaching you the material. Paul is a fun lecturer and a great professor to get to know.
The teaching staff is very interesting and kind.  I didn't find this course to be particularly wretched, but I took it at a time when I was discovering that math is not my calling.  Thus, I found myself resenting it.  Would recommend for math lovers who are deciding between applied and theoretical math, gives a good taste of both.
Be comfortable learning independently.
This year it was a great class because what I learnt was directly applicable in my physics classes.
This was a much better course than 23a. It really made me view linear algebra and real analysis as pieces of a greater whole, and the dealings of differential forms and exterior derivatives were wonderful.
This class is incredible if you're interested in learning more math, but note that a strong math background is absolutely essential. There a lot of very intelligent students in the class, so to keep up, it's very important that you have a very strong calculus and linear algebra background, preferably with some proof experience.
The material in 23b is a bit more organized than in 23a, and the amount of work this semester was much more reasonable. The elimination of R from lectures made lectures a bit more effective, though they still suffered from essentially being Paul talking while doing the problems rather than explaining the problems/talking THROUGH the process. Thus, as in 23a, I'm left waiting for how the things we learned fits into the bigger picture. However, Paul, as always, is very earnest and enthusiastic about the material, which almost makes it more of a shame that lectures are not very effective.
This class is much better than Math 23a. It is much more applicable and computational. Get proofs done early.
If you're reading this, I'm going to assume that you're a student in Math 23a considering taking Math 23b or changing levels. I'm going to say that if you made it through 23a, you should DEFINITELY continue. At least this year, Paul heavily front-loaded the course and more than half of the material (and work) is in Math 23a. The second semester makes a lot more sense because you don't have to struggle with learning how to write and understand proofs and can focus more on the content. I got to see a lot of cool applications of stuff from 23a, and by the end of 23b, I really started to realize how much math I had learned thanks to Math 23 and Paul when all of the topics started to come together. At the end of the 23a, about 10 students met with Paul (at Paul's invitation) and we talked about our concerns about the first semester. Paul did a fantastic job of taking in our feedback, and 23b was a really good course because he was so receptive. While many of us had some unhappy feelings about 23a, I felt much more positive about the course overall after this semester and am glad that I chose to stick with Math 23.
Good, solid class- I loved the format
Do it if you are serious about math.
This class is at a weird spot where it's not quite rigorous but it's also not quite computational. As such, the class tries to get the best of both worlds but gets neither.
Stick with it. Paul's a cool guy and if you can see past the math to the magic, it can be worth it.
This class is rather frustrating because it is a strange mix of theory and applications. The class seems very jumpy becuase it is lacking connections between many topics. Do not take this course if you have taken any math past BC calc. However, Paul is a really nice guy and there are some great TFs, so if you have little experience with math beyond BC calc but would like to try a higher level course, this isn't a terrible option.
I would strongly encourage students who have taken Math 23a to continue with 23b. The course is much less demanding time-wise, and it follows very nicely from the linear algebra approach to calculus introduced in 23a.
Don't learn the proofs mechanically you really have to understand them, if you do so, you will be able to apply the same "tools" to other situations and you will also understand the material more fundamentally.
Suppose you took Math 23a and are now deciding whether or not to take Math 23b. 23b is basically the same as 23a, although this year we had shorter psets. In general, the material makes more sense conceptually than 23a, since it is easier to visualize than, say, lim sup stuff. However, it's still a lot of time, the proofs are still annoying, the lectures are still not the clearest, and the psets, while shorter, ended up having longer problems than 23a, so they still took quite a while. Paul is still a very nice man, and the course staff were helpful. I'd say that if you hated 23a, don't take 23b, but if you found 23a annoying but still like math, you might as well do 23b. However, if you want a very solid applied multivariable calculus foundation (say in order to take physics later on) Math 23b will not give you that, since much understanding and ability to do calculations gets lost in doing proofs- if that is the case, then you should take Math 21a instead.
Read the textbook! That will really help you learn the concepts properly.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU DON'T NEED TO. The material isn't interesting. I never ever attended a lecture because Bamberg puts you to sleep. If you must take the class, play the lecture videos at 2-3x speed and hope Kate/Kenneth is still TF/CAing and go to them if you need help.
I think that this class is really great, especially if you are not prepared for the time commitment of 25 and would like more of a theoretical base/challenging course than 21 (as well as have an interest in higher level math courses). Often 23 gets a bad rap, but it is a good course if you are not entirely confident with your background in mathematics and if you want some exposure to proofs. The entire team is lovely, and Paul is a fantastic person. Go to his office hours and talk to him. He gives fantastic advice and is just a great person in general!
I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in exploring theoretical mathematics. This course provides a really nice blend of rigorous theory and application. The course faculty are very much invested in all of the students and make available numerous resources (office hours, section problems, course-wide reviews) to best help students succeed. The faculty are also constantly looking for ways to improve and there was a clear improvement in experience from Math 23a to Math 23b. I think this is a very encouraging sign for the future of the course.
23b was much better than 23a this year because the lectures were re-structured and the R component was removed. The workload was also fairly manageable and the assessments straightforward--you're pretty much used to the pace of this course by the second semester. Just finish the year. Stopping after 23a is kind of awkward because then you don't know how to integrate.
Honestly, I would only take this course if Math 25 is not an option for you.  The course material is very similar, but 25 is taught in a much more classic format.
There is no other first year math class that offers a blend of proof-based and more applied math. That being said, don't expect to get much out of lecture  the course's strength is in its TFs and CAs, and in the learning you do while collaborating with other students.
Make sure you're really prepared for the course. The amount of work escalates.It's a hard math course, with a lot of work and not a lot of help. There are many things you'll memorize for the quizzes, and you might not really learn.Most people were struggling with the course, and overall felt like they didn't learn and internalize anything.Study the material before the early sections (and before the lectures if possible), and start the PSet as early as possible. Also, start proving things very early in the module.
I enjoyed this course quite a bit. Lectures can be dry, but if you seek out the course staff, who are great and always willing to help,  you'll have a much more engaging experience. The material was interesting, and I strongly encourage you to study for understanding rather than memorization. You'll enjoy the class more, learn to appreciate math,  and you'll do better in the course
This class is definitely more difficult than Math 23a. However, it is a very nice and comprehensive approach to the theoretical aspects of integration, including Lebesgue integrals, one of the highlights of the course, and the more practical aspects of integration, such as change of variables techniques. There is a nice balance between the practical and the theoretical with a solid taste of analysis. The treatment of differential forms was very well done, and was certainly another highlight, and unique area of the course. You will very much appreciate this class, if you have a physics background, because many of the applications are in physics. However, if you do not have a physics background, many of the applications will have no meaning, and it becomes rote memorization of some integrals, such as moment of inertia. Well done class, identical style to Math 23a. Take this class for its insightful and unique take on the Lebesgue Integrals and differential forms!
This class was a useful addition to my understanding of math, both theoretical and applied: while I wouldn't suggest it to someone with any proof background, I felt that the proofs and general strategies (induction, "epsilon-over-three" tricks) gave me a far better understanding of the material as we went through.  "Late" section with Isabel Vogt was particularly useful in lending insight and intuition as to the applications of the material (especially in terms of physics).  A word of caution if you want to take this concurrently with Physics 15b: you can get along just fine, but don't expect to learn Stokes's Theorem, div, grad, or curl in this class until long after you've been applying them in physics, and be careful with your coordinates, as the physics courses' coordinates are different from those used by Paul.  Proof presentation, while interesting, can be a huge time commitment, so either plan ahead or be willing to lose a bit of study time during reading period.  All minor faults aside, though, I'm glad I took this course and have found it thus far useful.
This class is more challenging than 23a because the subject matter builds on itself more. Therefore, early on, you should always reread the lecture notes and try to understand the material, even before attempting the psets. When doing psets, first try the problems alone, and then check them with others as necessary- this is the only way to absorb the material. Stay on top of your proofs, because they are integral to learning the material because they usually contain crucial concepts.
Math 23b is a good course, but I got the feeling that a lot of people look down on the class. Paul is a really good lecturer and is incredibly qualified and respected in the department. Alongside 23a, this course gives a solid foundation of theoretical mathematics, enough so that I was able to take theoretical C.S. courses alongside it. The material is fun, you get to know a lot of smart people with the structure of the class (proof parties, early sections, etc.), and I highly recommend it.
Prepare for late night PSets, and find friends to struggle through it with. Go to office hours. Do your proofs and proof parties early. Bamberg can be confusing, but Kate is great.
You must be prepared for a challenging course with proofs. if you are more interested in applying math to science, take math 21. If you somewhat enjoy proofs, take math 23.
Math 23 was very difficult for someone coming from limited math background. It's a completely new way of thinking about math than in high school. Math 23b does not quite have the elegance of 23a, but combined you have a pretty solid understanding of where math goes after calculus. There were many times in this class where I felt overwhelmed, but if you keep pushing, you will suddenly see the light and it's wonderful. I would say if you started with Math 23 in the fall, stick with it for the spring unless you know you're never doing math again. I was very reluctant to continue after first semester and almost switched down, but I am very glad I stayed in the class. Math 23a and 23b together give you what you need to know from 21a and 21b without all the messy numbers, and with a bit of work, it seems like you can continue into higher math next year. You also learn random things like Lebesgue integrals. This class is really good for people interested in physics. Outside of the material, the class itself can sometimes become annoying between proof presenting and the section problems. It's sort of an annoying class at times, but with some hindsight, it really had a positive impact on my freshman year.
If you are not specifically looking for a proof-based mathematics class, or do not yet know that you like it, I would suggest taking 21b instead.
At this point you've taken 23a and can't really go anywhere else. 23b is easier than 23a and gives you a good computational basis for e.g. physics, though it's hard to care about differential forms if you want to do anything other than that.
Hard but doable... light some candles and get into the mood to do this work.
This course is definitely difficult. The best way to get the most out of Math 23 is to go to ALL of the lectures, ask questions whenever you can, and get all of the help that you can. Go to office hours and review sessions. Start studying for exams early, and do NOT put off doing your proofs until the last day! This course is hard, but doable--as long as you commit. Courses like this are what you make of them; take advantage of all of the resources the professor offers you, and spend extra time making sure you understand the material. This is quite an undertaking, but, if you're up for the challenge, can be quite worth your while.
It's a pretty solid and comprehensive math intro course.
this class should only be taken by those people in a particular situation (i.e. have not had BC calculus); people above this should probably take Math 25 and those below should take 21; those interested in science, in an applied sense, should also take 21 - 23 does not provide sufficient practical work to get very comfortable applying the concepts
It's somewhat theoretical, somewhat applicable-- if you put in intense time and effort, maybe you'll learn both, but you can also very well leave feeling like you didn't learn either. Pacing is fast, problem sets are tedious and long, and for anyone looking for "real world" application, you're probably better off taking 21. That being said, I really only survived the class because of the other students in it. We formed study groups immediately that just kept growing in size, and I often learned a lot from listening to my peers explain different approaches.
Interesting problem sets and a large number of relevant topics covered. Theoretical concepts were not as well-explained as they were in Math 23a.
Personally, I had to take about 12 hours a week on P-sets. The first P-set is more difficult but it gets a little easier afterward. I can't stress this enough: KEEP UP WITH PROOFS! If you don't keep up, which most people don't, it'll really come back to bite you during reading period. Rather than being able to use the time to study for relevant material, you'll be stuck presenting proofs that won't show up on the test or concern material you're already comfortable with. Take an hour or two each week to learn and present that week's proofs at office hours. Plus, if you have all the proofs when reading period comes, everyone else who's way behind will be flocking to present proofs to you and you can just rack up some easy points from listening.
Take this class only if you are thinking of doing math as a concentration/ secondary, or if you really love math, but you have not had BC Calculus or have never seen proofs before. Otherwise, I would recommend trying 25 (though it will require more hours), or just take 21.
Math 23b is useful for the material that it presents - understanding change of variables, integrating over manifolds, differential forms all form the heart of what one uses in physics. I thought M23b excelled here.However, that being said, I did not like the way the course was setup. I do not like Prof. Bamberg's way of teaching even if he is a great person. I don't like filling out outlines while he reads things out. I didn't enjoy the 'proof parties'. The tests weren't great. I mean after forcing you to go through real analysis, it's almost never tested.
I took Math 23 because I wanted a compromise between the rigorous proof-based approach of 25 and the purely computational 21. Instead I got this fiasco. 23a was fine, but 23b is a trainwreck. The "proofs" are banal, useless, and not even close to rigorous. The application questions, where one should theoretically learn to actually do multivariable calculus, were so few in number I was surprised that Paul never called them a set of volume zero. Avoid at all costs. Do yourself a favor and take 21a if you need multivariable for something useful, or 25b if you already know multivariable and like proofs.
You need mathematical background, and taking Math 23A is definitely helpful. I didn't take 23A  but I still learned a lot, and didn't feel behind. It's better to take this class as a freshman - I took it sophomore year and didn't really have a group of people to do homework with. Because I always had to work alone, psets took me longer than usual, but in the end I learned so much!
It's a fantastic class, especially when taught by Paul Bamberg and Kate Penner.  They put a lot of effort into making the class a tight knit community.  You will NOT get the same in any other freshman math class.
Math 23b is a really good course that bridges the gap between high school and college mathematics. The course allows to exposure to a lot of really cool topics in mathematics, and after taking it, you are in a good position to evaluate what specific area of mathematics you are interested in. That said the course is not flawless -- lectures a bit difficult to follow, section often proves not to be as helpful as you would like it to be. Being aware of these flaws from the get go will make this course easier and more enjoyable for you.
Math 23b was fairly similar to 23a. I thought 23b was better-organized; for the most part, I could see how each topic related to the next/previous topic, which wasn't always true in Math 23a. However, I also thought the subject matter was drier in 23b compared to 23a, but that's probably a product of personal preference. As with 23a, the grading for this course is not particularly hard, though the concepts sometimes are not very easy. Paul and Kate's lectures were similar to last semester; they were generally informative and worth going to, but nothing mindblowing.
Math 23 makes you a completely different math student by the end of it. You do learn a lot, that's true. But it's an insane amount of work; you're made to basically memorize the proofs, the psets take a lot of time even working with people, and the psets are totally unindicative of what will be on the exams.
I loved Math 23 for the reasons that:(1) it made me stay up at night thinking about the intermediate value theorem(2) it made me run to the quad every week for office hours (a 2 hour nearly-one-on-one q-and-a session with the best CA -- (get Tyler if you take this course!! and if he's still a CA))(3) I learned about cavemen and Wyoming and manifolds at the same time (Paul lectures in a informative and yet entertaining way)(4) I came out knowing a little more about *math* -- not the math that is done in high school (at least a typical high school)-- but real mathematics. The introduction to proof-based math that was Math 23 gave me a taste of the beauty of truly understanding math and really sparked my interest in the subjectIf you want a challenge and are in between 21 and 23, definitely choose 23. It changes the way you think, especially if you haven't done proofs.  I made this choice after struggling for countless numbers of hours after the first lecture (Paul really throws the hardest stuff at you in the beginning) because I enjoyed the "aha!" moment when I finally understood a theorem that looked misleadingly straightforward.  I can't be more glad that I chose 23 over 21, because even though 21 may have been easier/less of a time swamp, I understand so much more; I also don't think I would be looking into more of mathematics had it not been for 23.If you're deciding between 23 and 25, I'd say 23 is perfect for someone who wants to learn about proof-based math while also applying the concepts.  However, if you're already well-versed in proofs, I'd advise shopping both to see which flavor of math suits you better.For me, this class took up an enormous amount of time because I really wanted to get all I could out of it; you can definitely get by with minimal effort, but you're sacrificing so much knowledge if you do so.
You get in what you put out: it's very possible to get through the course by just memorizing, but you obviously won't get as much out of it. Paul offers a lot of ways to get points to get an A, so the course is very possible to get an A in, but it's a question of how much time you're willing to put in.
The Math 23 sequence has made for a long year, but at the end of it I will say that I learned a lot. 23a in the first semester was a tad frustrating, but by reading period, reviewing for 23b made the whole year come into focus and I'm glad I got to see both the abstract parts of multivariable calculus and its concrete applications. Lectures are sometimes paced slowly, and watching them later with the CS50 plugin to speed it up and allow for pausing was very effective for me. Section is also incredibly helpful - don't hesitate to ask questions and really buckle down to understand each concept as it comes up. It's hard to catch up in this class, but the mathematical maturity you gain is truly valuable if you put the time into it. I was very hesitant to continue with 23b after first semester, but if you've made it through 23a and found it at least somewhat interesting, you will gain even more in 23b. That being said, if 23a was really not your style, I would switch out to 21 or another math class - you still have proofs and 3 midterms and the same professor.
Not for everyone.
If you're a math wienie not sure if you should take 25, you should just take 25. If you know math is not your calling, that it's just a means to an end, take 21. If you're not sure, or think you may go into field like economics or physics where complex math is commonplace, 23 may be for you. They content is well chosen and (in retrospect) well-arranged. It undoubtedly is useful stuff to know if you're going into a math-heavy discipline and lends itself very well to go on to study applied math. The class also can be fun with the proof system. Two disclaimers, however. First, Paul's teaching style doesn't work for a lot of people, and requires that you spend time with the material outside of homework time. Second, if you are or may become a math wienie, the laxity and loose definition of a proof may frustrate you.
If you are thinking about doing anything related to mathematics (CS, economics, applied math, etc) you should really consider taking 23 instead of 21. Not only will it save you time on other classes (you don't have to take math 121, 101, or 112), but the class itself is very well organized and the professor is excellent. Paul really cares about his stories and he's been around for so long that he can tell so many cool stories about his time at Harvard. Having only taking BC calc, I struggled at the beginning of the year, but if you put in time you will do well and find the course to be very rewarding.
Don't take this class if you are considering physics. This class requires a very specific type of student to benefit fully from the course. For me, and most students, getting a good grade isn't difficult as long as you're willing to put some time into rote memorization. However, I did not gain anything meaningful from this class. I took the Physic 15 classes at the same time and I think taking Math 23b actually hurt my ability to succeed in physics. Math 21 would have been a better choice since the students in that class get a chance to practice and apply the practical math that is required in physics. In Math 23, you'll learn a little of why different types of integrals exists, but with very little practice of how to actually evaluate the integrals.The class attempts to teach multivariable, linear algebra, and real analysis all at the same time, while also exposing students to proofs. In my opinion, it takes on too many things at once. Each chapter jumps from subject to subject with little interaction between each chapter (though it is not as bad as in Math 23a).Logistically, the class is extremely complicated. There are assignments due each week, with an additional assignment due each "quiz period". On exam weeks, you not only have a P Set, you also have to submit an extra assignment and you have a "practice quiz" that you can turn in for points. Furthermore, throughout the year, you have to keep track of your "proof points", which is a complicated process since the policies outlined in the syllabus don't match the points the tracking program will show.
This class is a lot of work! I thought it was very interesting, but I'm unsure if it was really worth the amount of suffering I went through in order to finish it, and I'm also unsure of what exactly I've learned throughout the course, although I'm fairly sure I learned something.
Significantly more challenging than 23a. A very significant portion of the class is already familiar with multivariable calculus to at least some degree - if you're coming in with 0 knowledge you should be prepared to work extra hard to catch up. However, the proof-based ideas in 23b were much more engaging and interesting than in 23a.
Professor Patel tries really hard to be a great professor; unfortunately, the way that the class is structured I think stymies his ability to teach effectively. The Hubbard book the class is based on is very confusing, especially if you skip sections as we did in 23 this year. If you are looking to learn how to actually do linear algebra and multivariable calculus for other purposes in the future, I would recommend taking 21. Most of what we did was abstract rather than computational. For example, 23 leaves many of its students still unable to perform the div, grad, and curl operations, three very important and basic multivariable operations.
I'd say be prepared to do a lot of work with your friends to learn the material and survive problem sets.
Prof. Patel is a gem. I am very sad that he may not be around next year (which future students should be aware of when choosing whether or not to take this course - the course as taught by another professor would likely be different). Honestly, the professor is so nice and it's quite clear that he truly cares about his students and the subject of math. He really tried to give to us an intuitive understanding of and a passion for the material, and I honestly feel like the final lecture to the course where he told us some life lessons is a Harvard moment that I will always remember. On the course itself (rather than the professor), problem sets took a fair amount of time to solve - not on the same level as 25 but definitely a few steps above 21. Math night is really helpful but if you don't want to stay up all night, you should definitely solve most or part of the pset before math night. Reading the textbook and attending lecture will allow you to more quickly solve the pset's and do better on tests. Study well for each test and do a lot of practice problems since 23b is much more applied than 23a.If you want to do math in the future, or if you're a physics or CS person looking for a proof-based class that still gives you some applied skills, 23 is a good fit.
Great class with Anand Patel teaching. Less work and less material covered than in previous years from what I've heard, but he emphasizes in-depth understanding of concepts, which is definitely important.
I enjoyed the course - you get a good background in multivariable calculus and linear algebra.  In terms of real analysis, I'm not as convinced.  Professor Patel was a good lecturer (very entertaining and informative) although sometimes it wasn't immediately clear how the lectures tied in with the homework.  Still, overall, you can begin to learn about higher level math (without the time commitment of 25/55).
Become an avid textbook reader. You likely won't work out the kinks of your understanding by only watching the lectures. Seeing how both Hubbard and your professor present topics is advantageous, not inefficient.
Be excited. The course is challenging, but more than rewarding in not just your math career, but your time as an undergraduate at large.
My favorite course at Harvard yet! Prof Anand is an amazing lecturer! This course will make you think deeply about math and mathematical objects.
Great class, especially with Anand. He is an entertaining and passionate lecturer who really wants to teach us how to become a *true* mathematician.
Professor Patel is a very inspirational professor: Not only does he teach you how to appreciate the beauty and simplicity of Linear Algebra and how to visualize and understand the properties complex mathematical geometrical shapes only using two mathematical objects (tangent spaces and determinant), but also he spends a lot of time, both during class and also outside of class, to make sure that his students understand the topics covered in the class very well. I am so sorry that he will not be here next year to teach this course again.
Prof. Patel is a guest professor, so I will talk more about the material and structure of the class. The material is generally that of a standard multivariate calculus class, although from a more theoretical perspective (so we use k-forms, integration over manifolds, etc.). There is a good balance between theory and computational examples, although homework mostly of basic proofs and computations. I think this class would be a good fit for someone who is interested in math but either doesn't want to commit to an extremely heavy workload (25, 55) or completely abandoning numbers.
I think this is a great class for people who are interested in theoretical math without necessarily wanting to commit to the intense workload of math 25. Though there are some math majors, the majority of the class is physics, stat, computer science, etc. Math 23 teaches proofs without being overwhelming. Anand struck a good balance between explaining theory during lecture and also teaching practical math skills that I've used in other classes on the problem sets. I would recommend this class for any student who is comfortable with single variable calculus and wants to learn more about math than just formulas.
Anand was a great lecturer and in my opinion 23b covered a lot more interesting topics than 23a.
Though the class isn't perfect, it does give you a deeper understanding of multivariable calculus than something like 21a. You're going to have to put effort in if you want to learn; lecture and sections won't teach you by themselves.
If you have taken Math 23a, then definitely take this class. It will introduce you to rigorous math and symbols, giving you the opportunity to further develop your interests in math.
The course has no real form - you'll meander rapidly through a number of different topics. The class is said to be computational, which it is initially, but the theoretical underpinnings really come into play in the second half of class - and are immensely rewarding after self study. Would recommend taking this class after 23a.
This course is really brutal most of the time but can be fun sometimes.
Good class if you want to learn some proper (pure, proof-based) math, but do not want to go into pure math too deeply. Second semester has very little proofs because the content itself is harder and less introductory, which has the effect of making the psets much easier.
Don't judge Anand from the outset - go with him, and you'll learn just how right his approach to mathematics is.
The course material isn't that interesting but doing the problems can be fun.
23 is a very weird class. Hubbard can be a weirdly arrogant and confusing textbook, but if you want a more rigorous treatment of multi/lin alg than 21 and think 25 is kind of out of your level, don't be dissuaded by the mediocre Q scores. This was definitely the right class for me, and I took a lot away from the course.
Take 23B if you liked 23A and want to learn mathematics from a more proof-based standpoint (i.e. you don't just learn formulas but actually learn how to derive those formulas from basic principles).
You don't appreciate Math 23 until the end. It's worth it.
This class was excellent when it covered theoretical material and slow and unpleasant when doing computational math. Unfortunately, computational math took up most of the semester (I don't think we proved anything in the last half of the course). Math 23a had a better balance.
This class offers a great overview of practical multivariable calculus and manifolds, with some theory/proof-based motivation.
This class is hard; we're out of the world of high school math, so expect things to get theoretical and sometimes scary. It will be worth it though: very interesting, a lot of growth, and the perfect amount of challenge.
This class made me look at calculus in another way. I loved analysis through the lens of linear algebra. I feel like a learned a few abstract things very well and the rest was all computation, but I really enjoyed those few things. Professor Anand changed my life with his wise words. He is perhaps one of the greatest teachers I have had the experience of meeting.
The class is honestly not that bad. I'd highly recommend working in a group for the psets. The midterms are OK. This year, we had to write a final expository paper on manifolds rather than have a final exam. This was actually a pretty interesting assignment that you can have a lot of fun with, but start early.
The course covers a lot important topics, but you really need to be proactive about learning if you want to understand the material.
hard but rewarding (or maybe not hard for people who've already done this stuff before...)
There is no way to really prepare for this class or for exams other than to have learned the material independently outside of the course. Do not rely on staff to be able to explain anything effectively enough to teach it to you for the first time or for sufficient prep materials to be made available
Math 23 will be a much different class next year since Anand was a visiting professor, but I enjoyed learning about the more theoretical side of calculus. Overall the class was ok the material was interesting but I think the efforts to make all of this seem applicable was lacking.
This class is hard and not necessarily the most edifying. Anand is a great lecturer, in my opinion, but the material was very tricky especially if you hadn't done multi in high school.
Don't take this class!!! Unless you absolutely adore proofs and writing completely unnecessary math papers during your reading week, you're much better off taking Math 21. One of my biggest regrets of my freshman spring was not just dropping down to Math 21 instead of doing another semester of Math 23. I was forced to teach myself all of the material and spend unnecessary time on what should be a much more straightforward course.
Came into this class from Math 23a fully expecting a similar experience to the last semester. Perhaps take my review with a grain of salt, since I was not as big a fan of Anand as a person as other students in this class. Math 23a was a breeze. The midterms and final exam were fair, and thus were super easy. Perhaps due to unfavorable reviews last semester, Anand decided to step up his game this semester and make his exams a little less logical. Based on my experience from the last semester, I skipped every lecture, didnt watch any of the videos, and often had a friend hand in my homework so that I could focus on different priorities. Literally only saw Anand around once a month for the midterms. Learned just from reading the textbook-Hubbard is pretty good, though confusing at times. Midterms had either a large question that focused on one obscure concept mentioned for 2 minutes in one section, or had a large troll question. Actually enjoyed the final paper on manifolds, though it definitely took more time than studying for a final exam. Hopefully Bamberg makes a more consistent class. I will say, however, that I do not regret taking this class over Math 25, if only for the amount of time it saved me.tldr; Bambergs class should be a lot different, so these reviews will hardly be applicable. However, multivariable calculus and real analysis is really fun and important to know!
To be honest, this course has been extremely different in the past and probably will be in the future. It's hard to give a useful impression of it to future students. I'd say take this course only if you enjoy math and its deep implications. Unlike the 21 series, 'chug and plug' is rarely something you will do in this course. It really prepares you for higher mathematics
Although some people may express frustration with Anand, I do believe I learned a bunch from this course. Whereas I have taken classes where the professor has come off as unthusiastic, I feel like its clear that Anand not only has a passion for the course material, but genuinely cares about his students. I enjoyed the material more than 23a. I found it easier to visualize and enjoyed the more computational problem sets.
Everything connects together in a way you would not expect and you truly come to understand math in a rigorous way that you will not regret if you take this course.
This is definitely a pure math course. If you want to learn multivariable calculus, take Math 21.
I know many things will be changing about Math 23 next year, but I'd encourage people with any enthusiasm for math to take this course. It really goes quite beyond Math 21, and the material is a good introduction to the style of longer proofs.
This might be a little painful if math is not in your primary interests but at least seems quite a bit easier than 23a. To get a full understanding of the material here will take some time. Paul is an odd duck in lecture but a good person who is quite willing to help you out. Speaking of that: Do not be hesitant to ask for help from course staff if you do not understand something; you will be much less frustrated in the end. As has been stated in previous course evaluations, Kenneth Wang is God.
I self-studied the Math 23a material (lectures, text, and psets) over winter break. Single-variable real analysis and basic linear algebra (mostly determinants), accompanied with a knowledge of elementary proof techniques/structures, is needed for 23b. Homeworks are nontrivial and require serious thinking; even still, it is possible to do most of them on your own without too much time commitment. Also, Paul is a solid lecturer, and peppers his lectures with enough summary and story to justify watching them; know, however, that the lecture videos are of good quality, so you may end up, as I did, appreciating his lectures online at 2x speed.
You will cover some interesting material in this class; it is a decent followup to Math 23a (although the former was better in my opinion).  One cool thing is that you will see how Linear Algebra is very applicable in the study of Multivariable Calculus, which I never thought was possible.  That is definitely a significant advantage you would have over Math 21 students.  That being said, this course definitely lacks some direction.  At times, it was difficult to see how working on current topics would prepare me for my study of future topics.  The course felt more like a hodgepodge of different ideas than a unified approach.  Nevertheless, the material was certainly interesting.  Paul seems to try very hard in his lectures.  Just be wary that they be a bit confusing/boring.
The material covers a lot and manages to go in depth as well. But you won't come away really knowing how to take multiple integrals or derivatives in general. Only in the specific cases that are covered in the class.
Quite a bit of work and please get the proofs done early
This was a very interesting course, but the lecture format may not be ideal for some students, and students should be prepared to commit a significant amount of time outside of class.
Math23 is definitely challenging and requires a lot of time, but it is quite rewarding after seeing how much material we learned in such a short amount of time.
Good way to learn how to write proofs and helps with other proof based classes. It's really helpful to look at the scans beforehand! Especially for people who write more slowly, 23b lectures were a lot more helpful when using scanned notes because you could understand material without having to try and copy everything down.
It's a good class.  If you've taken 23a, 23b is a class worth taking.
Beautiful course! Many math concepts were interwoven and at the apex we developed the theory of differential forms, which is very useful for physics applications. In general the class was a perfect mix of application and proof.
The course is very structured and organized, so there are few surprises. As long as you do the problem sets and study for the exams, you can do very well (since you essentially know what will be on the exams). However, the teaching is quite ineffective and unclear at times. Also, the workload during the two midterm weeks may be a bit heavy (lectures on Tuesday and Thursday, problem set due on Wednesday morning, and midterm on Wednesday night).
This class does a good job teaching differential forms and Stokes Theorem.  However, the lectures are not the best.
I like the fact that this course addresses the abstract components of the material and explains both the how and the why of the material, as opposed to 21, which only explains the how. However, the lectures are often difficult to follow and it is easy to lose track of the material.
This class definitely has a more manageable workload than Math 23a, but you won't learn as much. Problem sets are more computational and require less thinking and deep understanding of the material. If you feel that 23a was too easy, then 25b *might* be the way to go. However, if you feel that 23a was hard, then 23b is kind of a tossup, as it will not be as tedious or difficult as 23a. That being said, Paul will not be teaching this class next year, so if you're planning on taking 23a and/or 23b in the 2016-2017 year, then talking with the new instructor might be more helpful in determining what class to take.
People generally know if they are the type who will enjoy 25/55, but I think it is hard to know ahead of time whether you will enjoy 23. Course difficulty is much more than 21 and also of a different flavor. You need to be pretty self-motivated to put in the time, but can be very rewarding. Definitely use the TF's OHs and sections as a resource, since lecture can move quickly. Exams are quite reasonable as long as you redo the group problems repeatedly and memorize your proofs -- if you do that, plus listen to proofs for bonus points, your grade will be fine!
This class is the logical class to take after 23a, so I recommend it; the structure is identical, and the content is comparable.
Math 23 is the perfect solution to the Goldilocks and the Three Bears dilemma. I found Math 25 to take up too much of my time (although a perfectly interesting a fun class!) and Math 21 to lack substantial challenge. Math 23 makes me think and pushes me academically, but I find the workload to be very manageable and otherwise not burdensome on my life outside of the class. If you want to know why things are the way they are in math without needing the painstaking details (physics concentrators!!!), I recommend this course enthusiastically.
Great course with Prof. Bamberg. Unfortunately, he may not teach next year. If you want a more applicable, bottled down version of the rigorous math 25, take this course.
Take this class if you liked 23a or 25a. There aren't many changes from 23a.
way harder than 23a. You should take it though- it brings everything you have learnt together to prove some cool results. Also, learning differential forms is pretty powerful.
The course is a good balance of theory and application. It is the logical continuation of 23a so many students take both semesters of this course. The content is very interesting and the work load is manageable. Lectures were not super engaging but that depends on who is teaching it.
Math 23 is great! And 23b specifically is much better than 23a. The topics are more interesting, the psets more manageable, and the skills you'll learn are more applicable to physics and such.
This class was the weird unwanted child of 21 and 25.
It is probably the best course to take if you want something between very applied and rather theoretical, as it has both. This however would be the main reason I would recommend it; I was quite disappointed with the lectures and notes.
