If Prof. Hopkins is teaching a course.... just take it! You will not be disappointed.
Mike Hopkins is fantastic, a great lecturer, very fair and kind, and just overall a wonderful professor.  This classes really engages you with the material hands on, so you learn a lot, but it not stressful at all.  Group midterms were a blast.
The class is great for learning more on linear algebra after taking 21b while learning how to write proofs. Take the class if Professor Hopkins is teaching it. He makes the material very accessible. You will learn a lot and enjoy the lectures.
Professor Hopkins is awesome, the sweetest professor I've ever met. You'll get a lot if you read from the book and pay attention in class.
I liked Math 121, but I really think that it depends on the professor you get. Prof. Hopkins was great and made the class feel like you were learning much more advanced math. His problem sets really show you how far what you're learning can go.
The class this semester was unusually small with only around 9 people, so I don't know what it will be like in future semesters with more students. We had group finals, which we kind of came up with and were actually really conducive to learning since we had to collaborate, so the dynamics of the class really depend on the amount of students. However, the material is interesting, providing the proof-based explanantions of topics you learn in math 21b. But this class isn't 21b, since you learn new material too. Prof.Hopkins lectures are pretty clear and the book assigned is actually really good if you don't understand something. Great class overall!
Despite some of its drawbacks, this is an ideal sequel to Math 21b and a painless way to acquire experience with proofs.
Perhaps if the course was taught with a more independent professor.
you better really like math to take this course
It would have been good if we had learned more about how to prove things.
This course looks really appealing: it has a ton of interesting topics, and looks like a course that would strengthen your mathematical reasoning while introducing you to a lot of areas. However, there is simply too much material to really learn all of it in depth; for example, we cover topology in 2 lectures. The speed by which topics goes by ensures that a) I never really engaged deeply with any of them and that b) instead of strengthening my proof ability and general mathematical reasoning, I spent most of my time blindly memorizing the problems that were going to be on exams without really understanding them. If you have a TON of time to put in this course - at least 20 hours a week, if you've only taken 21a/b - then you might be able to really engage with each of these topics. Otherwise, I suspect that it might devolve into barely scraping by and not really learning anything due to the sheer volume of material, as it did with me.
It is not an easy class and workload is kind of heavy
It gets really difficult towards the end. I think I was mostly fine up until the second midterm, then I started getting pretty lost. You should definitely take this with friends or make friends in the class, because you're going to need a lot of help with the psets as the course progresses.
Make sure you really think about whether the structure of this class works for you. Paul is a great teacher and a really cool person, but if you don't like juggling lots of moving parts (presenting proofs, typing up solutions to problems done in section, doing regularly scheduled homework, etc.) then you are not going to enjoy the course. One thing that is great: there are no surprises. If you work together with everyone in the class (proof parties are great for meeting people), then you will know the solutions to all questions on the tests. This class is very much a course where you need to cooperate with others. The bad thing: in preparation for tests, you can get by with memorizing solutions and get away with not understanding the material, which just isn't good from a learning standpoint. In summary: Shop this class.
Make sure to start studying early. If you actually pay attention and do the small group problems, there is no reason you shouldn't get an A. That said, the material can get tricky and pretty abstract at times so you might just be memorizing the answers to small group problems to do well on the tests, rather than actually learning the material.
This course requires increasingly more time with each new module - I would say the course becomes measurably more difficult after Quiz 1, and even more difficult after Quiz 2 - so please do keep up with the material. You will be very lost if you forget to read Paul's notes/do the recommended warm-ups before lecture.
This course is very well designed and it trains you well in proof writing and logic thinking. You will gain a deeper understanding of linear algebra by learning how it is related and can be applied to other areas of math, e.g. topology, group theory. However, a trade-off is that the course cannot go into details of those topics and sometimes you need to do some extra reading in order to truly appreciate the beauty of the application of linear algebra in those fields.
Overall, a very good class. It's a little more of a time commitment than what you may think with 2 hours of lecture a week (you must attend two hours of section, probably go to office hours, LaTeX some problem solutions and find time to present proofs to others in the class). That said, most of that stuff is quite helpful, so it's not too much of a burden.
This class is great! I took it without taking 21b, and self-studied the basics of linear algebra over the summer. I learned a lot from this class, from proof-writing to topology. It was a lot of fun, and the format of the class emphasizes learning over grades. Paul and Mariel are excellent teachers!
Paul teaches at about a million miles an hour. You will understand just enough to get by with the homework and small group problems, but little beyond that. That being said, the workload is manageable.
Sometimes Paul assumes that you learned things in your linear algebra course that you probably didn't, so you need to make sure you learn that stuff before moving forward. It's not all that bad, though. Also, do the proof log ahead of time.
This is a fantastic class! You should take it if you're looking to ease into proof-based mathematics. It is also one of the best ways to fulfill a concentration requirement.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time understanding the later material.
I wish I liked this class more. Unfortunately I think I didn't really agree with the structure of the course...Paul goes a bit too fast when he's teaching, and doesn't leave time to let things sink in. Right after lecture, you go to section where you work in groups to solve problems that you just learned. Unfortunately, most of the time I needed to go through the lectures probably two or three more times on my own to understand the material. The section was mostly pointless and generally a waste of time.
It's a fair amount of work but if you like linear algebra or Paul Bamberg you can't miss it.
Great introduction to proof based mathematics. However, the physics towards the end was pretty boring and did not enhance my understanding of the mathematical concepts
This class introduces very idiosyncratic topics. but it can be a nice sampling class for advanced topics in mathematics.
This is a great course for learning proof-based mathematics for those who have never taken any math class with proofs. Also, the course reviews several different interesting applications of linear algebra. Although, Paul's lecture tend to be confusing due to his pacing. Make sure to pay close attention during class. However, even if you don't, the lecture notes tend to be detailed enough to teach the material even when lost during class. Overall, this class may be tough at times, but its generally very doable.
Take this only if you're willing to take a very tough course and do a good amount of work. But if your'e into that, it's a really, really great experience. You should also be into thinking and figuring things out on your own. I found this to be the type of math class I've been waiting for--because I felt that it really gave me the opportunity to think rather than just regurgitate memorized formulas. Paul is a lot of fun.
The subject matter is interesting, but this course is a lot of work. There are a lot of little assignments in addition to the problem sets that make the workload heavier than it seemed like it would be. It's a great course if you're willing to put in the time.
If you didn't take 23 and feel like applied math classes are too easy, this class is great.  Not a harshly graded class, but very intellectually stimulating.
This course is a fun way to see a lot of interesting math and break out of the 21 series into the 100-level series at Harvard.  I would definitely recommend it, and this course is as much of a great experience as it is an interesting class.
Really great way to learn how to do proofs while being exposed to highly applicable linear algebra along the way. Bamberg is a great teacher who is truly enthusiastic about sharing his passion for math. Also he is a baller.
This is a great class with great lecturer.  Paul is not only passionate about the subject but he is also nice and approachable.  He also cares a lot about students.  I really enjoyed doing small group problems with classmates.  It helped me walk through materials we learned that day.  Hope many people take this class.
So, this course has positives and negatives.  The positive is that Paul Bamberg creates a grading scheme that allows anyone to get an A who's willing to put in the time and effort.  Midterms and exams contain all problems that are straight from class, so if you review/memorize all of the problems covered in class you can easily get a 100.  That being said, there is a lot of material to cover and a lot of work for the class overall.  Every week there are homework problems and for every week there are 6 problems that you need to find time to learn because they can show up on exam.  As far as the content of the course, often I felt like I wasn't learning that much because we moved too quickly for me to keep up. Also, while lots of profs are done in this class which is useful preparation for other classes, a lot of the proofs were less rigorous.  Consequently, I don't think I learned to write proofs the best way possible.  That being said this is still probably a better introduction than most math courses. Finally, Paul is an enthusiastic and approachable teacher so the learning environment is a comfortable one.
Make sure you know what you're getting yourself into.  I enjoyed most of the course, but this is NOT a class that should be called Linear Algebra with Applications.  You will learn a lot of proof techniques if you take it.
This course was great.  It was very well organized and you will learn a LOT more than you expected at the beginning.  It's a lot of material though.
This is a quality class overall. Bamberg is brilliant, accessible, and focussed on teaching. You'll come out knowing important proofs and some cool and unexpected applications of linear algebra. We even do a little bit of topology and real analysis, preparing you for other 100-level math courses. The courseload is generally reasonable but sometimes can add up with some difficult psets in addition to all of the proofs you have to log. The problem solving sessions in class are fun and are a good way to get to know other students well.
You'll learn a lot of important and interesting material in this course. Be mindful that while the section component of lecture provides an opportunity to do problems, it also is harder to put a time limit on.
This class is great if you took math 21a, 21b and regretted not taking 23 or 25.  Covers a lot of more abstract topics and is a great introduction to proofs.  Don't need any experience writing proofs to take this class, but afterwards I feel much more comfortable writing math proofs.  Helped a lot with CS 121.
If Paul is teaching, take this class.
A great step into proof-based math for those who took 21a-b. Some material is akin to 21b, but there's enough new things throughout to justify it.
This course really helps solidify the material from 21b.  It's also very manageable in terms of difficulty and course load compared to other 100-level math classes.
As far as upper level math classes go, it was one of the best ones I've taken. It was really hard but well-taught. With other classes I've often felt like I learned enough to get by in the class, but a year later I wouldn't be able to tell you what I was supposed to get out of it. With this class I feel like I'm walking away having learned a lot of material really well. So yes, it was difficult but not unreasonable, and I actually feel like I learned something. That being said, different people seem to teach it every year so that may change with a different instructor.
You'll learn more than you do in 21b, and this is certainly a great class to hone that proof writing skill.
get a more fundamental understanding of linear algebra
Problem Sets required a fair amount of time so be prepared for that.
Problem sets can be long. Material is interesting. Joe is a great guy, and really cares about his students.
This is a very good class to develop proof writing skills and the material is taught differently enough from 21b that it is still interesting. It always helps to have a good teacher and course assistant.
This is a good first abstract math class.  Enough of the material relates back to 21b that even if you're not a math major or inclined towards abstract math, you can still struggle through.  However I thought entering into it that this class might help me gain a deeper understanding of the linear algebra underlying statistics and that did not turn out to be true.  Despite the title which includes the word "applications," we did not really study any applications of linear algebra.
Great class to take if you're interested in the mathematical principles behind linear algebra rather than just its applications.
