The course material illustrates some fascinating mathematical concepts, and the class goes through the interesting and exciting part of the material without getting too bogged down in detail.  Professor Gadre is a good lecturer and very friendly.
Like many upper-level math department classes, it will depend with the professor teaching the class each term. Personally, it was interesting and not too painful, and overall a fun course.
Very interesting material
this class was much harder than advertised, especially for a non-math concentrator.  the problem sets take a long time if you don't work with someone else, and the lecture material is difficult.
This is a trivial class which promises interesting material but mostly fails to deliver. It gives the most basic of ideas about various topics, but does so unrigorously (which is unhelpful) and never goes into any meaningful depth. The lack of textbook is annoying. It does help build a little bit of comfort with proofs (for those who took math 21 or something), but is not a class for serious math concentrators.
It is a great class that provides a comprehensive introduction to various mathematical topics that are often left out of other courses.
Insanely hard lectures. Embarrassingly easy homework.
-
An excellent choice for senior spring.
I very much enjoyed Math 118R! It was a great blend of both some proofs and how to apply them. Examples gone over in class were interesting to further see how to use what we were learning. I thought that the material was interesting, problem sets were instructive, and Professor Cain was a great teacher who was enthusiastic about the material and also very much cared about the learning experience.
Amazing class in ODE. Many useful theorems and very organized course!
It is a well organized and friendly class, and a great way to learn a little bit about dynamical systems. If you are looking for meaty analysis, 113 would be more appropriate.
It's a nice class if you've taken a lot of abstract math and want to learn something that's rooted in physics, chemistry, etc.
Wes is an amazing professor. Generated great enthusiasm for the course material, was very clear in his teaching style and always available for questions outside of class.
Cain is a fantastic instructor!  You'll learn a lot.
