Really great class.  Your experience will vary with the professor.  Prof. Mazur gave very interesting lectures and gave us the opportunity to present individual topics for the rest of the class.  I learned a ton, and LOVED my introduction to Number Theory!
If you like prime numbers, you will like this class. If not, it probably won't be fun.
This class is a really great class on an interesting subject, but it covers a lot.
The material is quite interesting and the workload is pretty reasonable. A really good application of Math 122, but it would be okay to take 124 without 122 as long as you're willing to read up on some of the stuff on you own.
Number theory is an interesting field and this was a great course overall. The course sometimes felt a bit scattered because the topics are so diverse, but this is somewhat inevitable for a number theory class and didn't detract much. Mazur was awesome and did a great job of explaining the material, and the workload was manageable. Kevin is also a very helpful CA. The key results and proofs are very interesting (with some rare exceptions). I suspect that this course probably would be very hard if you haven't taken Math 122 before, but is fine otherwise.
Mazur is generally a good lecturer, but he's occasionally just a little slick, which can make it hard to follow at times. Lecture is important, though. Make sure you understand everything on the course notes he gives out, and you'll be fine on tests (tests are _exceedingly_ fair).
This is an excellent introduction to number theory
anyone with any level of math knowledge can get something out of it
Good overview of interesting topics in Number Theory. There is very little stress.
This is a very fun math class.  It was not stressful at all and the teaching staff was kind and accommodating.
Shankar as an instructor can sometimes be a bit frazzled, mostly because he's so new at this. But at the same time, the content is important and is very interesting, as long as you spend time on the problem sets
Take this class. Number theory is beautiful and Arul was a great lecturer. The first few weeks of the course are pretty easy, but then it becomes more challenging and towards the end, we went through many interesting topics such as elliptic curves. If you are looking for an interesting, but not too time consuming math class, then this is it.
Unlike other math classes, number theory requires a lot of cleverness. The only way this can be developed is to solve a lot of practice problems. So be sure to practice extra problems and read the textbook, which is very well written.
The material is interesting and the lectures can be quite enlightening. However, sometimes the lectures are a bit confusing and that can be difficult as we progress through more difficult material, although the book can usually help clarify the main points of the lecture and more. In other words, be prepared to read the textbook to supplement lectures, but otherwise the material is vey interesting.
This class can be petty hard; the exams are tricky and there's three of them, which can be inconvenient.
If you've done any sort of number theory class or contest math with number theory in high school, you will not be challenged at all in this class, and will likely get bored. If you don't know anything at all about number theory, though, then take it, because it's a great subject and easily accessible.
It's a good course. Compared with other math classes I've taken, it was harder than 122, easier than 123, and on par with 25ab. Lots of surprising and interesting results, but I'd say 122 and 123 featured more diverse, interesting proofs.
Number Theory is really fun. Also, if this Mazur is teaching again, I highly recommend taking this class with him.
This class was a lot of fun, and not very difficult.  Definitely consider taking it!
This course is a motley of random number theory topics. The beginning is really trivial, but near the end it doesn't get hard, but a little boring. Don't skip class, because you will not be able to catch up.
This class is awesome. The material is interesting and Mazur is an amazing teacher. Go to his office hours. He will make you understand things.
Great class! You'll enjoy the material if you have any interest in algebra
This is a great course with some very interesting math.  It is a beautiful subject matter that generalizes to some pretty profound results.  The course really gives you a feeling for how fundamental the concepts you learn are to ongoing research in number theory.
Math 124 was interesting and approachable. More than anything else, the material is just really cool.
This class is the most fun math class that I've taken at Harvard in a while.
Math 124 is fun, and really easy. It's a very warm and fuzzy introduction to a lot of basic problems about the whole numbers (the distribution of primes, etc.), and as far as I could tell is mainly supposed to motivate  later, chunkier courses in algebraic and analytic number theory.The only complaint I would have is that in covering classic topics in the field, it seems slightly haphazard and non-sequential, but I suppose to see big unifying themes you probably have to ante up and take a more serious course.In any case, Harris was absolutely awesome (a great lecturer, very friendly, entertaining, made good psets), the topics were pretty interesting, but if you take it do so only as a fifth or sixth class.
This class provides an overview of one of the oldest and most ecxiting branches of pure Mathematics - Number Theory, called by some the Queen of Math.
Joe Harris made this class great, but even if you won't be taking 124 with him it is still a worthwhile class.  Most of the motivating questions are drawn from classical problems in mathematics and it's just really good material to become familiar with.
I had a lot of fun in this course; it's a great math course to take "on the side" of another math course, because you'll still learn a lot but it's not as much of a time commitment as some.
This class is easy, fun, and interesting.  Professor Harris is phenomenal about making sure that everything is ridiculously clear, and I never found myself dreading work for this class.  It really deepens your appreciation for mathematics.
I would recommend anything taught by Joe Harris.  The material by itself is not interesting enough.
Joe Harris is very good, the structure was generous, and if you're interested in the algebra side of things, this would be a great follow-up to 122 or 123
This is a leisurely and fun introduction to number theory. To those who have done math competitions, some of the material will have the same flavor as competition preparation problems.
It is easy and interesting class. It touches some interesting topics in number theory and makes you want to study more on its own - generating functions and combinatoric number theory. But if you want more through introduction to Number theory take 129.
It's an easy and laid back course, but the material can be very random, involving random tricky manipulations rather than deep theory.
Good class.  Manageable difficulty.  Harris is great.  His enthusiasm makes lectures really enjoyable.
If you want a low pressure introduction to number theory this is a good course.  I would not recommend it to someone that wants a more theoretical and higher level introduction to the topic (take Math 129).
not easy but fair, and interesting (albeit irrelevant to life) material.
As an intro to number theory, it probably doesn't get much better than this.
The level of this course will certainly depend on whoever is teaching it. Some years it is appropriate for math majors with less background, and some years it is not. The tests count for an unusual portion of the grade, and it is difficult to know how you're doing throughout the course.
Great class.
I would only take this class if you have a genuine interest in number theory. The class becomes much more difficult after the initial weeks and requires a lot more work than may be expected.
The course is a fair introduction to many topics in number theory.
Number Theory is one of those classes you take because you legitimately think the subject is beautiful and interesting, and this class does not disappoint in highlighting that. Benedict Gross is the best lecturer I have ever had, the material is fun to play with, and the workload is extremely manageable. Like anything else in the math department, this review is entirely contingent on who is teaching--I would give rave reviews about anything with Professor Gross, but he is a number theorist and therefore particularly effective here.
Fascinating material, not too difficult, not too time consuming. A really solid math elective.
This was a good class. Gross is a good lecturer, although he tends to rush through material. Take it if you're interested in number theory!
This is an excellent choice for someone looking for a mathematics class to take for pleasure. The topics are beautiful and relevant, and the lectures of Prof. Gross's are a pleasure to attend.
Number theory is among the most beautiful areas of mathematics
The material was great, and Davenport was one of the few math books I actually enjoyed reading. Only complaint would be that I only got back 1 complete pset. I did not get back half of 7 of the psets.
If you've taken 123 already, consider skipping 124 (and maybe taking 129 instead). That said, Dick Gross is an awesome dude and a good professor, and the class was pretty enjoyable.
Great course, although if this year's problem sets are any indication the class will be more demanding than it initially appears.
This is a very interesting course that provides a great survey of topics in number theory that goes far beyond what many have seen at math camps previously.
Professor Gross is amazing, and this class was wonderful. Listening to him teach is always great.
This course has some really neat material. Plus, Professor Gross is a really friendly guy. However, the TFs (which are just random undergrads) really dictate the course. They're the ones that write the homeworks and grade it. And most likely, yours won't be that great. For this iteration of the course, the TFs had some awful homework problems that were less instructive about course material and more just tricky/hard proofs. Plus the TFs never turned back homework (except for the first few). Lastly, I got the impression they just didn't care too much about the course. One time, I went to section and the TF just never showed up. Plus, he never provided an explanation later, despite me emailing him. To make matters worse, one TF was especially reserved when it came to providing assistance with homework. Plus they used language like "this problem is easy" or "this should be obvious" which always is a No-No for teachers. Basically, good material, crappy staff and homework.
A super fun and fairly easy math elective.  Prof Gross is awesome, really passionate about the subject and engaged with his students.
A good entry-level course in number theory. Workload is very manageable, and the material is pretty interesting. Gross is also a great professor who wants to see his students succeed!
Professor Gross is fantastic. He weaves in the history of mathematics into his lectures and knows the material so well he doesn't even use notes. He covered a bit more material on groups and fields than expected but it was all enjoyable. Highly recommend it.
Professor Gross is an awesome teacher and number theory is super interesting. I really liked the way he taught the class this year, keeping the material approachable especially for people who don't necessarily have a strong math background. That said, the organization of the course was pretty poor in some areas, with limited communication about how many midterms there would be and when they would be. Moreover, the TFs failed to return psets in any semblance of a reasonable timeframe, which really hurt my ability to learn from my mistakes. All in all, I would recommend the course because the material is so interesting, but I'd recommend just taking a course with Professor Gross even more.
although your instruct might say that math 122 isn't necessary, you probably will need it.
Dick Gross is an amazing lecturer who generates plenty of enthusiasm
This is an excellent course that will not take up too much time, compared to other math courses, but will still give you a solid insight into number theory and some open problems in the field.
