fun, enjoyable class
It's a good course, but it's different every year, so I can't vouch for it next year.
Course is well taught, material is good, but hard to grasp.
Combinatorics is a really cool subject that is worth exploring.  Sukhada Fadnavis is a very good teacher who does not just lecture to, but engages the class.
A very fun and interesting topic.
Really fun course.
Taught by different professor each year with no set material. Scope out the professor.
Combinatorics is a fun subject, and it's easy to conceptualize.  It's a good math elective.
Excellent class. Relatively easy for a math class. The problems are reasonably easy. Overall not very demanding.
Combinatorics is definitely a black sheep in the math family. If it's a topic that interests you, go for it! But if you're not genuinely interested in the subject and are just looking for a fun math elective, it will definitely drag by later in the semester.
Combinatorics is a lot of fun (very different from algebra, topology, analysis etc that you'll also study in math) and this is a pretty relaxed course. That may change in future years, but check it out anyways.
Very interesting dive into combinatorics. Challenging but rewarding with a great teacher. If you put in the time you will get a lot out of this class.
This class will be pretty easy. A lot of the work is out of the textbook which was really helpful and made it easy, whereas the things you learned in class are never texted (so it's up to you whether you ever want to go to class)This is a great discrete math if you don't want to get to in depth or you just want a broad introduction. Also the class doesn't really build on itself so you can't fall behind.
Fun class, interesting material
Super fun class! You will learn a lot about combo, with little stress (take-home midterm, final paper). Sukhada is a great lecturer :)
Sukhada is a great teacher! She is very good about not moving too quickly in lecture (unlike most upper-level math profs).
This is a gem of a course tucked away in the math department. Sukhada delivers very clear lectures, and the assignments are pretty manageable and even, dare I say it, sometimes fun. Combinatorics is definitely unlike any other kind of math I've taken, and it also uses some methods from other disciplines in ways you wouldn't necessarily expect. The course is also a survey of the subject as a whole, and Sukhada makes it clear from the outset that if there's any specific branch of combinatorics that you'd like to learn about then it can be incorporated somehow into one of her lectures. Seriously consider this course if you're looking for a math class to add into your schedule.
This is by far the best math class I've ever taken, and Sukhada is among the best professors I've had. Very interesting material, especially if you're interested in theoretical computer science (the majority of the course is spent on graph theory). Class was mostly spent problem solving, which was a fun different format than most math classes.
Fun and accessible, pure and practical, challenging and non-stressful, Combinatorics with Professor Fadnavis was one of my favorite math classes Ive taken so far. As a teacher, Fadnavis is clear and engaging, keenly aware that students of various levels of background and ability take her class, and teaching in a way that caters to all. Next year is her last year here at Harvard, so take advantage of her while you can. You can expect reasonable p-sets, a take-home midterm, and a short final research paper  your choice of topic. What more could you ask for? I dont think its possible to regret taking a course like this.
This class is not especially time-consuming, and it covers some interesting material. Take it if you want some fun math problems!
Combinatorics with Sukhada was great. I would not pass on this course if you're interested in combinatorics at all.
It is a very interesting topic, the class is structured in such a way that you take away what you want from the class.
This course was a lot of fun.  There was definitely a focus on group discussions.  There was enough work so that the course should be treated seriously, yet not once did I feel overwhelmed by this class.  The midterm was take-home and the final was an expository paper, so the course is overall a low-pressure and highly engaging experience.
I would recommend taking this course, although with some reservation. The material is engaging enough and Professor Fadnavis tries her best to stimulate a collaborative problem solving environment, even if the material sometimes it's not too deep, possibly due to the vast amount of different areas in Combinatorics covered in this class.
Take this class seriously as it's a decent amount of work and pretty challenging. Definitely not what I was expecting when I signed up, but a very pleasant surprise!
Professor Fadnavis is great, she really wants her students to succeed and is very understanding. She makes lectures fun and the material is cool and useful.
This is a really great class to take for math concentrators (or really for anyone with an interest in learning math and with some proof experience). I think that it's likely to be the lightest workload you'll ever have. Even so, I felt myself really improving as a problem solver, and I also learned a lot about many topics in combinatorics. Sukhada Fadnavis is also one of the kindest people ever, and she is a joy to be in class with! I would highly recommend this class!
Combinatorics is a fun subject!!
If you like combo you might as well take this. It's really easy and will fill in the cracks about some stuff you didn't already know.
If you're looking for an easy math class, this is it. The problem sets are pretty doable without going to lecture (take it from someone who knows...) but there's still a lot of really interesting material. Make sure you spend the time to read the text; if you do that, you'll be able to kill the problem sets for the most part. One of the TFs from my year was kind of a jerk, but you'll get over things like that. Start the problem sets early - even if they're easy, they're not easy enough that you can throw them together the night before and still get a good night's sleep.
Joe Harris is a great professor and makes thing really clear. Take a math class with him if you get the chance.
I really loved the class. It is very dependent on the professor teaching it and changes from year to year (it is a repeatable class, hence the "r" in "155r"). It is very relaxing because it is a pset-only class and is great as a fifth course.
As with most math classes, it all depends on the professor who happens to be teaching. Professor Harris was great! He used the same notes that Jacob Lurie used when he taught the class some years ago and that syllabus is great. Combinatorics is a big field and your experience with this class will largely depend on the professors predilections. If it is Harris or Lurie teaching it, I would greatly recommend!
Really interesting material, and Harris is the best lecturer in the math department. Drisana is really nice and helpful
Interesting introduction to combinatorics.  It's a good first step into a field not represented in many Harvard undergraduate math classes.
This class is what you make of it. All of the material is there in the lecture notes. The problems are not too challenging but they are good practice. The TF and course head were very flexible and I learned a lot from them.
This course covers a wide range of interesting material at a pretty relaxed pace. Professor Harris is an engaging lecturer.
Joe Harris is a great teacher, and the class does exactly what it says it will do. Our only assignments were problem sets (no midterm, final of any sort) which was very helpful, both in managing workload and in grading. Take if you're a math concentrator looking for another class to add that's nontrivial but not too hard.
Pretty awesome, Professor Harris is an amazing lecturer. You'll need a little background in algebra, but not a whole lot (just some basic stuff about groups and such). Some formal experience is definitely good to have, maybe at the math 23 level.
Take it if Prof. Harris is teaching. Grade based entirely on problem sets. Interesting material though not too unified.
Great, fun math class that provides a a solid foundation on many topics in combinatorics.
This course will be very different based on who is teaching it, which varies greatly from year to year. We had exams, only problem sets, which led to a vary laid back atmosphere in the course which I appreciated. What Professor Harris said on the first day is an apt description of the course: it's less one coherent body of knowledge than a series of techniques for solving different types of problems in combinatorics. The material and problem sets are fairly challenging, but the grading is somewhat relaxed, which, coupled with the lack of exams, mitigates a lot of stress.
This class will obviously be very different depending on the instructor, but Professor Harris is a great lecturer and it was nice to take a math class where the only assignments were problem sets.
Harris is a lovely teacher, and lectures at precisely the right speed and level such that someone not well-versed in mathematics (and whose group theory is rusty) can still enjoy the ride. Combinatorics was essentially a class of fun problem-solving, with Harris introducing us to some cool new techniques in class that we got to play with on the homeworks (which were really pretty straightforward). The lack of exams was amazing. Lurie's notes were a bit confusing at times, but generally a good resource and well-structured.
As with all math classes, this depends highly on the instructor. While combinatorics is not difficult, it is incredibly beautiful. You will encounter some really beautiful niche mathematics that ties nicely into other applications. The class closely followed Lurie's iteration of the class however; hence there was little incentive to attend class. Overall a great class that is not too difficult. Definite recommend to all as a chill and interesting 5th class.
This course had really interesting material with Professor Harris and a pretty light workload: it was a really good class overall :) Professor Harris is also a really good lecturer.
This class changes every year depending on who is teaching so make sure to take advantage of the shopping period to see if you like the teaching style. General advice: Take any class Professor Harris is teaching!
This is a fun course with a moderate degree of challenge. Combinatorics doesn't really "fit-in" in any one place during most undergrad math pathways, but it is a good general "toolbox" of mechanisms for approaching these types of problems.
Joe Harris eats $wag for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
By taking this course and studying finite sets, you will not only learn how to count without counting, but also discover a seemingly-simple yet fundamental branch of mathematics,  Ramsey's Theory.
