The resources in this course are great. Professor Hall and Adrian are always willing to meet, even outside of their office hours, to help you. For those of you who have the attention span of a fly, all lectures are videotaped and posted online. This course is similar to a seminar. There are about eight students in my class and all the lectures are presented by students. So there is an active participation component.
Great introduction to proofs with a unique seminar style, really depends on fellow peers but this dependence works.  Lots about groups and abstract algebra and not really about graph theory
This was a great way to break out of the 21 series and learn some proofs. It wasn't particularly challenging or time-consuming. I gained a lot from preparing to present proofs to the class.
For me, this class was a lot of work. You have to do a problem set and teach a concept every week since its a "student taught" class. Professor Hall does sometimes teaches some of the material and the times he does, I always understand it because he is an awesome lecturer. However because students are teaching other students most of the course (though they have to go over their lesson with the professor beforehand), teaching quality varies across student to student. Quizzes were fair, final was kinda difficult for me personally. Despite the work, I feel as if I did learn a LOT about groups, fields, rings, etc. and this class was a nice introduction to discrete math. This class is more like a general overview of a lot of topics rather than going in depth about them (my friend who is a math concentrator, after looking at the syllabus, says that we don't really delve too much into group theory.) Overall, I recommend it! Professor Hall and Adrian are super nice!
I'd take them to take it because it is a nice change from the normal math class where the professor lectures the whole time and things go over your head and you're too scared in lecture to ask. In this class, you are not scared or feel intimidated to ask a question.
It's fun and easy.
Do not take this class if you are a serious math major and planning to take Abstract Algebra.
fun math class
for a senior, it's a great review of some past concepts, while approaching them from a new perspective
I would tell students that this class is very enjoyable, and that they should take it if discrete math is something they could use in their concentration.
Bret Benesh is outstanding.
Get to know Bret, he's awesome.
a fun and painless math class
If you want an easy course, this is for you.  But don't expect to learn anything.
If the class is with Bret, go for it!
Attendance is important.
If you like a lot of busy work and teaching yourself a lot of material, sign up!
Icosahedra were never this cool before.
Teaching the material you are trying to learn is a fun and unique experience.
It is a good class and you learn a lot. Be prepared to work.
Take the course when you have ample time
The workload isn't that bad and you learn about a lot of cool math topics.
Take this course only if you are willing to put in a lot of work on content that very few other students know about/understand.
Good way to satisfy applied math requirements.
It's a rewarding class, but it's alot of work.
I found it strange but in a very good way. I loved the material and have come away understanding it better than I have understood any math class since coming to harvard. There were lots of moments that made me feel like I had accomplished something and really made a breakthrough in understanding. All of that being said, it's important to know that this class has a _lot_ of extra work on top of hw. It's a pain and takes time but if you really do it you'll learn a lot and in retrospect I'm glad I had it.
This is a great chance to learn in a small, seminar style environment some interesting, new, but not overwhelmingly difficult, material in abstract/discrete math. Also you get practice presenting on the whiteboard.
Take this course! Paul is an endlessly interesting professor. You will come out of this course having learnt a variety of topics in surprising depth. Not very challenging, but very interesting nonetheless. Good second or third math class. Covers very important mathematical concepts.
Very enjoyable, fun, and easy math course.  Great way to be exposed to multiple areas of abstract math while learning how to present math.  If you did well in 23+ maybe consider 122 though for a more serious introduction to group theory.
Fantastic way to fill Applied Math requirement
Some busy work but you learn some really interesting math that underlies a lot of the stuff you already know. If you like math and just think it's cool to think about you'll love this class
This class is an extremely good introduction to higher-level math topics. It gives a very good overview of group theory (as well as many other important topics). It is taught seminar-style, with students presenting topics at the board during class, so be prepared to not sit and be lectured, for better or worse. The class is small and moves at whatever speed is appropriate for the students. Paul will often include or exclude topics depending on what the class wants. Midterms and final are very fair, and problem sets are very reasonable. If you've only taken Math 21 (or not even that), have no proof experience, and are considering higher-level math courses or a Math/AM concentration, this class is perfect.
This class is great. If you're a little hesitant about taking a math class and what that's all about this is the class for you. The pace is set by the students but that doesn't mean the class isn't demanding and rewarding. It is challenging but accessible. Classes are engaging and instructive. One of my favorite classes at harvard so far.
Paul and Aaron (the TF) are a dynamic duo that take you on an adventure through a wide variety of mathematical topics, along with a bit of FAS politics and ancient Celtic poetry. It's a great, relatively easy course where you get a fair amount of say in what topics you want to learn. The math we study is very elegant, fascinating abstractions of things you've learned before, but isn't hard to understand. The exams are pretty easy, and the problem sets aren't too long; overall a low commitment yet rewarding class.
This class was a lovely surprise from start to finish.  The material seems dense, but somehow seemed easy to learn at the same time.  You'll do better on the tests than you expect.  And of course, there was a certain kind of community at the end of the course, since we had all gotten to know each other through the presentations and everything!  No proof background required at all.
This is a class that you can do very well in, and learn a ton of fun (and at times bizarre) mathematics if you're interested and put in the work.  A great course, and bravo to the teaching team of Paul and Aaron.
The class covers some interesting materials and the instructors are very helpful in engaging interest and providing support.
This course is a lot of fun, and you learn a lot. The small class size is also nice. The exams were a bit tough but on a whole it was definitely worth it.
A great class to consider for requirements of Applied Math. This is my first time to try discrete mathematics and to my surprise i enjoy it a lot. Probably my favorite math class so far at Harvard. You are responsible to prepare individual problems to present but normally they wouldn't take more than an hour, and most topics are a lot of fun. The professor doesn't lecture a lot (which saves him quite some work lol) since most of the time it's the students who explain each problem and you gradually learn all the concepts through this process. Class size is small so it's very interactive, and sometimes you even get to vote for what you want to study next and what you hope to be in the exams. Exams are super easy, very basic, all the proof are literally from class.
This is a great course to take if you are Applied Math and need to fill your discrete math requirement. Prof Bamberg and Aaron make an amazing combination. I had zero background in theoretical math and had never done a proof in my life. I had only taken AM 21a and 21b, and it was definitely sufficient. You learn a lot of really important topics in theoretical math (groups, sets, category theory, rings, fields, isomorphisms, etc.) without the difficulty in higher level math courses. I was skeptical of the small, seminar-style of the course at first, but it's really neat. You get to know everyone in your class and you wade through the material together. The problem sets are never terrible, and the presentations are pretty straightforward. Honestly, I wouldn't even call them presentations. You go to the board and give it your best shot, and Bamberg and Aaron will offer help whenever you need. The exams aren't bad at all either. Bamberg will tell you that everyone will get a near 100% on the exam, and you won't believe him at first because the material feels so difficult. And then you go and take the exam...and you do really well. My favorite part of the course is that everything is very straightforward. No one is trying to trick you on any of the questions. It might just be the nature of the concepts themselves. By far the best course i've taken as an Applied Math concentrator. It's a gem of a course. Try and be there on the first day because there is a strict 15 student limit.
I think it is important to note that I came into this class as a sophomore only having done up to 21b.  This class was very difficult.  The concept were things that I had never seen before and while the course said you did not need any previous proof knowledge, if you don't have any there is really no explicit into or how to component of this course to teach you about it.  Generally, you are expected to know a lot of things about upper level math and things are not really explained to you unless you go to office hours and have Paul explain them himself.  Paul is an amazing professor and is very helpful and encouraging.  While the presentations were quite stressful, they were generally easy to prepare for and were really good practice for interviews or explaining math in general.  The psets were manageable and very applicable to what we discussed in class and what was on the tests.  This class was quite chill and I feel like I learned a lot. I recommend it but probably to mostly Juniors and Seniors with more math experience.
Easily one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. I thoroughly enjoyed (almost) all of the material, and the workload was relatively light. Paul and Aaron make the perfect course staff since they are so incredibly enthusiastic, patient, and accessible.
A great way to be introduced to a wide array of mathematics.  If you are a CS student or like math and logic, this is a must take course.  Aaron is probably the most enthusiastic TF that you will ever have and Paul is very understanding.
this class is awesome and you learn a lot of really great math. exposed to a wide variety of topics.
