this isnt a really demanding course, but dont take it lightly--it will require a decent amount of work from you.
The math is not very interesting, but certainly easier that multivariable. However, the lack of interest can hurt you, and your grades.
The course did teach me a great deal, although it was difficult for the second half.
I would STRONGLY recommend this course to people in the life sciences who need to take a math above 1b as its topics will be useful for topics covered in the future after college.
It's harder than it was last year (according to general consensus among the students I talk to), but it's worth taking if A. you like math, and B. you need a good math class for your concentration or pre-med reqs
Midterms are much more difficult than one would think considering the problem sets
It's not as easy as you might expect.
It's a math class for a biology concentrator. Do not take as an elective unless you like math.
The key thing about this class is that it isn't difficult and is interesting only if one is interested in biology. The math is for the most part quite simple and easy to understand, but the biology and application of the models is more interesting. However, without an interest in biology, there's really little point in taking this class.
take advantage of office hours, professor hall is very helpful and willing to meet with  you as needed
It's not a horrible class, but it's not a great class either.
it makes the work feel worthwhile to learn about the interesting applications of the math, like modeling the activity of the heart!
If you have to take math beyond 1b, then you should definitely take this class
This class was truly interesting and I am very glad I took it
If you appreciate appliable math, and are interested in the material, then it is a good class to take. if not, it can be a bit boring.
The best option for a math class beyond 1b.
It is a hard class, but a very interesting and applicable class. For bio majors this is the higher math to choose.
The class is definitely manageable.  There are two midterms and no final during reading period.  However, the second midterm is very near the end of the semester and instead of a test during finals period, you'll have to write a paper as your final project.
This class is much more difficult than it was in the fall semester. This teacher teaches more material at a faster pace. You need to learn the material in essence on your own or with a TFs help.
This class is good if you are not a really big math fan, but need to take another math course above the 1B level, and you are a science concentrator.  It is interesting because of the scientific/biological component, although the readings are sometimes tedious and not very helpful.  The math you learn is interesting in the sense that you really see how it is useful and applicable to the real world.
Do all the problem sets with as much effort as possible.
This class is manageable and actually sort of relaxing because it's so low key. Just keep up with the material!
Do the appropriate section reading before lecture and you'll enjoy how lecture puts everything together. If you're a slower learner, as I am, this can change your experience in the class.
The course focused alot on applying mathematical concepts to biological systems, so some interest in biology would be beneficial for the class.
An excellent way to satisfy the mathematics requirements for premed students.
This material taught is highly applicable and interesting
the class this semster was hard, but the teaching staff is ready to help
This class is good for students interested in the Life Sciences, but if they are planning to concentrate in another field, Math 21 or 23 may be a better option.
The problem sets in this class take a long time, but can definitely be done. Office hours and problem sessions are so helpful and you should take advantage of them. The professor is incredibly nice and sweet. I would encourage students to ask her for any help.
This class wasn't that hard in the end but I was pretty confused for most of the semester and could only do the problem sets by going to Professor Taylor's office hours for help.
Only take it if you absolutely have to
For me, I thought this class would be very interesting and had heard from various people that it was fun and much more accessible than math 21b.  While I agree the material is more applicable to what I will be doing as a science concentrator, there is a disconnect between the bio articles and the lectures.  That is, I can see how the math gets applied to the articles, but we never really talked about it in greater detail than that.
The material is very interesting, but it was sometimes too much work for me to handle in conjunction woth three other full-scale classes.  I did appreciate the fact that there was not both a final exam and a final project, though I'm not sure which one of the two I would prefer.
the course moves fast and sometimes the material can be confusing and intimidating, but the course is worth taking because there is always help available and the teacher is always willing to explain things in office hours until you understand, the grade breakdown for the class is also pretty fair since your whole grade isn't solely dependent on a final exam
Be prepared to work through hard problem sets, but the midterms are much easier than them! Having a final paper instead of a final is a plus.
It's really confusing and the textbook doesn't help, but the TFs are great and will get you through it.
I heard that in the past this class was painless, but this was not the case this semester.
Try to avoid if possible, but it is mostly that the material is difficult to understand in the format presented.
Choose carefully between Math 19A and Math 21
It is really pretty difficult, and there are 2-3 scientific journal readings that you have to read every week. The main focus of the class is on differential equations.
TL;DR: This class is awesome; definitely take it if you are sure you want to do something in the life sciences.What really makes this course is not necessarily the material (which, to be fair, is interesting and relevant) but the bonds you form with fellow classmates. The psets are fairly substantial, so you spend a while working on them with everyone else. As a result, you end up spending a lot of time with a lot of awesome people - it's a great class to make friends in and, from what I've observed, is a lot more fun than 21a.The teaching staff is also top-notch and genuinely wants everyone to succeed; work hard and you'll probably earn a decent grade. Dr. Hall is a great lecturer, and he is extraordinarily devoted to the class; he makes an effort to meet students out of class and even listens to neuroscience lectures on his commute to better understand the biological aspects of the class. The CAs routinely stay past the end of office hours to help with problems and are in general awesome people who understand what you're going through. A word of warning, though: the difficulty of the material ramps up significantly (emphasis on significantly) after the first midterm, which kinda hurts since Bureau of Study Counsel doesn't have tutors for the class. Also, 19a and 21a cover very different material; think twice about taking 19 if you're considering further work that requires knowledge of multi. If you're set on pre-med/life sciences, though, you'd be silly not to take this class.
This class is really difficult. I didn't really enjoy Calculus BC and only took this class for pre-med and concentration requirements, but I found it extremely hard. The professor is great and extremely intelligent, though moves really quickly through the material. The readings, in addition to the lengthy psets, are extremely difficult to understand but interesting applications on the math. I do find that this class is easy to relate to the outside world, but it's difficult.
Dr. Hall is an amazing lecturer, and though this course was my most difficult, it was definitely my most rewarding. I had a brilliant time.
It was my hardest class, but I liked it the best. Dr. Hall is an awesome teacher who makes himself accessible, and the TFs and CAs give 110%.
It was seriously a fun course. There was a lot of bonding going on over office hours when a good handful of students show up to freak out over the upcoming PSet and we struggle through it together. There is an odd sense of community to this class.
Do not fall behind in this class. You will never catch up again. Also use all of the resources they provide. Don't treat anything optional as optional. Prof Hall knows what he's doing but the course moves quickly and the material only gets more difficult as the semester progresses. Also make sure you choose a final project topic you actually find interesting; you'll be slaving over it and might as well enjoy learning about it.
If you are concentrating in Neurobiology, this is a requirement.  While I was not necessarily engaged in all of the course material, the teaching staff is absolutely fantastic and helpful.
Students should be prepared to dedicate time to understanding the concepts. However familiar I became with the math, I had trouble applying it to the studies we were presented. Dr. Hall, the CAs and TFs are very helpful when sought. The tests are pretty fair based on the problem sets.
The course is really dealing with the modeling of differential equations in biology. If you aren't a math person and a biology person, it's not the course for you. If you are interested in math's applications in biology, this is a great course and you learn a great deal.
If you're looking for a non-traditional math class that avoids a generic multi-variable calculus curriculum, I would recommend Math 19a. I found the applications to biology very interesting and made the math more real. However, you have to be okay with reading 1-2 articles every week and writing a 10 page final paper. I thought the paper was probably an easier process than taking a final.
If you are an international student like me and are trying to decide whether your Math background is sufficient, then I think that A-level Math is a sufficient level for this course. John Hall is an amazing lecturer, a great guy, and it is much easier to stay engaged with the math because it is applied to the life sciences throughout. Don't be concerned about understanding everything in the readings, just a general understanding of what the reading is about is sufficient each week because Bio discussion sections cover this well. Most of all, you get to know other people in this course really well so it is a great course to take in Freshman fall if you're considering it
This is a great class. Take it for a unique math class that shows connections between math and biology. The teaching quality is the strength of this class. Dr. Hall is an amazing professor, one of my favorite here at Harvard. He teaches in a very clear, straightforward manner and makes himself available for help outside of class. Also, go to problem and bio sessions! They really helped cement my understanding of concepts, and the TFs/CAs are excellent. The class definitely does require work though: be prepared for long readings and difficult P-sets, but going to office hours and taking advantage of all of the resources really helps with all of this. Overall, definitely a class I encourage prospective life science concentrators to take. Some really cool material here.
It is really difficult and the math is far more complex than anything I had seen. It is totally doable but you have to be proactive. Getting behind and relying on the CA's and others to help you with the pests will fail you on the midterms. The readings seem intimidating but they are not. The actual mathematically computing is far more challenging. It is also much more heavily weighted on the midterms. The fact that there was a final project was a life saver.
John Hall is a tremendous teacher. If you have a choice between 1b and this course, take this course.
This class is probably very different any other math class that you've taken before.  Much of the material isn't inherently difficult but the thought process required to understand the concepts can be hard to get used to.
Math 19a is awesome! Dr. Hall is an amazing professor; he really knows what he's doing, but is also hilarious and quite a character! He manages to engage the entire class even though it's a decently large class. Honestly, it's a difficult course, but the problem sets and exams are very fair, and the TFs/ CAs/ Dr. Hall are always more than happy to help or answer any questions. Also, while you're taking the course, you'll learn so much in such a short period of time that you'll be amazed. It's definitely the best math course I've ever taken.
It's great -- you learn a lot. But be really, really, really prepared to work. It's a lot more time-consuming than you'd initially think it is, and you'll have to learn how to approach math in a completely different way from typical plug-and-chug curricula, and you'll have to learn that fast. The exams are hard. The material is hard. Worthwhile if you start putting in the work early on and keep it up for the entire semester.
John Hall is a fantastic teacher who gives a lot of one-on-one help. If you need help in this course, it is ALWAYS available. The final project is really fun, too--whatever topic interests you and no final exam.
It is very science based
This is a great class for people interested in the life sciences. If you are definitely going to be a life science concentrator, I would take Math 21a because more concentrations require or accept it for credit. I really enjoyed this course, but I also took advantage of everything they had to offer. I went to one office hour session, one discussions section, and one problem session every week. Also, start pests early so that you can ask people for help if you get stuck. Go through your first run-through by Monday night, for instance.
I would not recommend this class if you have a heavy course load. This class took SO much of my time and I almost want to say that I could've had a more exciting freshman year if I had not taken this. I spent endless hours in the library before the midterms and don't expect to do anything your Thursday night. Lectures are interesting but it's hard to focus and follow along sometimes, so often you need to go back and rewatch. That being said, it's definitely a well taught class with a lot of help offered. You definitely learn a lot and through this class I've gone further with math than I ever thought I would've gone. Personally, I think 21a is less work, but if you have a really strong math background and interested in the sciences, you should take it. It would be really helpful if you're a math person or if you've taken multi or lin alg. This class really puts you at a whole different perspective. Through this class, you will see that people actually use this stuff in real life and it's often very interesting.
While a really great course with a fantastic teacher, it is just pretty difficult and would be much better for someone who does have a deep interest in mathematics, as well as someone with a schedule that allows them to dedicate time to this class. It can be hard to stay afloat otherwise.
Many students thinking about concentrating in the life sciences decide between this course and Math 21a. If you are looking for a high-school style multi-variable calculus course, taught straight from the textbook, then choose math 21a. However, if you are interested in how math plays a role in biology, take math 19a. The teaching staff is amazing and always willing to help, and the psets, exams, and grading are very fair. This course does not go as in depth into multivariable calculus as math 21a but may be more applicable if you are leaning towards a life science concentration. The course is completely focused on mathematical modeling through differential equations and covers cool topics such as the dynamics of infection and populations. This class also involves a fair amount of reading, but the topics are generally interesting. Overall, this is a great class with a great teaching staff, especially if you are interested in math and biology and how they connect.
This class, while interesting, requires a lot of work because assignments include both weekly readings and problem sets. Make sure you are willing to dedicate around 10 hours per week to math related assignments.
This class was a lot more challenging than I expected. It requires a lot of work and patience but there is a lot of support.
This course is a great way to integrate biology and math. The teaching staff is great and attentive. The one longer problem set due per week is nice, instead of three problem sets per week.
It's definitely an interesting and applicable class, and it's cool that they relate everything to biology and other sciences.  Definitely not easy, and the psets usually take a while every week, and you'll need to either talk to a friend or a TF or go to the office hours party that happens every Wednesday and Thursday night.  However, the TFs and the rest of the staff (and Dr. Hall) are great, and there is a ton of support and lots of office hours.  The exams aren't easy, but they're not the end of the world either.  Just make sure you actually study and actually understand everything.  Re-watch lectures, because I guarantee you didn't really catch everything the first time around.  Also only one pset a week!  So much better than three.  Also no final exam.  Also you really don't need much calculus at all except some derivative and integral stuff the first few weeks.
so much work. Now feel confident modeling in life sciences and reading scientific papers that deal with math / differential equations. It can be a lot of fun if you seek help and connect with students.
If you are actually interested in the subject matter, this course is great.  Otherwise, it will be incredibly painful, because it is hard and the readings and lectures can be boring. John Hall is so great!! There are also a lot of ways to get help, but you will need to reach out and go to office hours!!!
Professor Hall is what makes this class great. He truly cares about his students and their success, and it is a beneficial class if you are willing to put in the effort to learn somewhat difficult material.
Take advantage of all the extra help this course offers.  Also, form a study group for problem sets early!
Do not underestimate this course - it was the most difficult course I took this semester. Professor Hall is endearing and everyone loved him, but his lectures glossed over so much material that I found myself feeling completely lost even when I payed very close attention. We began new topics every lecture, and it felt like we were picking up from where we left off in a lecture that never happened. The only time I learned things was in biology section or when I was struggling through 7-10 hour psets with my classmates. If you give yourself 2 hours of personal review time per lecture, you will be fine.
This class will challenge you, but it is completely worth the work.
This is a difficult course but definitely worth the effort. Don't get behind on psets and take advantage of meeting with TFs if you're confused. Dr. Hall and the TFs are amazing, and they are always willing to help.
pretty hard; lots of time spent
This class is difficult but you learn how to think more rationally.
Take this class if you like math in the least bit. It is a very interesting and engaging class! John Hall is a great teacher and the CA's are fantastic too!
It's not quite as easy as some people say, the problems sets can be somewhat time intensive
This course demands a lot of time and effort. It addresses interesting topics, and I definitely felt like I left with a better idea of how to read papers and apply math to biological problems, but do not take this course just because you think it will be easier than 21a or other alternatives. It isn't. The math is hard, and you need to be able to synthesize many different topics and apply them. Problem sets are long and difficult, so start early and utilize the CA office hours. The readings are interesting, but I feel like I didn't have enough time to get as much out of them as I would have liked. I would recommend this class to people who have time to devote to it, want to learn to apply math to biology, and have a genuine interest in this. Also, if you are concentrating in the life sciences, it's probably a good choice. If you're not sure about your concentration though, or want to take this to take an easier math class, this class is not for you. You will get the most out of this and retain the information if you actually are motivated to learn and pay attention in class.
This class is great! Get all the help you can, though! Problem sessions are great for psets. Bio sessions are great if you don't want to freak out before the exam. The class is not tooooo hard, but be prepared to put in hours of work and have your life dominated by it.
Problem sessions are probably a good idea, since the full process for completing problems isn't always covered in class. It's a fun class, despite the fact that it's math. Dr. Hall is awesome.
If you're interested in how math and biology can coexist, this is definitely the class for you. John Hall is a great lecturer and very accessible, but you have to go find him.
This class is difficult but very interesting and very rewarding. It led me to think about math in a completely different way and was the first time I understood applications of math. All the course staff are wonderful, helpful, and really enjoy teaching/talking about the material. If you put in time and get organized in terms of making a study group, working on psets with people, getting help from course staff you will be fine. I wish I had made better use of the resources available to me.
It's too specific to the life sciences, and by the end of the course you will feel like you haven't learned anything.
This class will most likely present a new approach to math that can be daunting at first. Professor Hall has an answer to any question you could possibly have, and also does a fairly good job at presenting all of his high-level knowledge in a way that students can understand, although you definitely need to meet him halfway with effort and office hour attendance.
Be prepared for A LOT of work, but also to gain a lot of knowledge.
It's a fun course! But it's really difficult. Don't take this course unless you're inclined to think that difficult applied math is fun.
This course requires a lot of time.
It may be difficult, but the material is fascinating. I enjoyed taking the course and highly recommend taking it despite the difficulty in some concepts.
This is a very challenging class. Do not take this class because you think it will be easier than 21A. Many of the things in this class are conceptually harder to understand. Nevertheless, even though the material is difficult the teaching by Dr. Hall and the support structure with the TF's and CA's is phenomenal. However, that does not make the class any easier.
Dr. Hall has constructed a really great course that integrates math and biology well. Coming out of Math 1a and 1b, I dreaded having to take another math course, but I was really pleasantly surprised by this course and would recommend it to science concentrators or really anyone who likes math and science.
I'd recommend this class to people who are really interested in math beyond calculus, but not to a life science concentrater who would take it as an elective rather than a requirement.
If you are interested in the sciences and want to learn math through specific articles and scientific examples you should absolutely take this class. You will learn a ton at a challenging but doable pace with outstanding instructors who want to help you.
This is a really interesting course that I would certainly recommend taking. A significant part of the classand one of the main reasons for taking itis a difficult reading component. You need to be able to struggle through a reading without giving upin short, you need to be able to spend the time trying to understand each reading (ie looking up terms, etc.) Dr. Hall and the TFs are a lot of help, though!
This class is very hard. Dr. Hall was not straight with us when he told us that BC Calculus would be all the preparation we needed for the class. The material before the first midterm is reasonably difficult, but after the first midterm the course speeds up tremendously and you can get lost very easily as Dr. Hall powers through multivariable and into linear algebra. Problem sets are very long and exams are extremely hard. Also, 2/3 TFs had not taken the class before and were not prepared to teach it, making problem sets and week-to-week work very difficult.
Keep up to date with lectures!  Get help from Danny and Evan; they really really help!  I haven't been able to make Julie's sessions so I don't know.  Help is everywhere for this course.
Professor Hall is really great about getting to know students and making it feel like a small class. However, it's a hard class that I found most people didn't really enjoy. I don't think I really learned anything that important for being a life sciences concentrator and wish I had taken Math 21 instead.
More apt for juniors and seniors, choose 21a if caught between 19a and 21a
interesting class and im glad that i took in the end but may be more manageable classes such as 21 or applied
Simply put: if you are planning to concentrate in the life sciences, take this course over Math 21a or 21b. The mathematical topics are interesting and relevant, and their applications to a variety of biological fields are considered. For those that have previous experience with multivariable calculus, differential equations, or linear algebra, this course is still worth your time and effort, although you may wish to consider Math 23a or 25a if you seek more of a challenge.
Do NOT take this class unless you are passionate about modeling. Math 21a is a better class, fulfills more requirements than 19a, and is less time consuming. I have not spoken to anyone in the class who understands how this class had such a high Q score. The tests were also difficult because of poor teaching - especially the second one.I wrote this on other parts of the course evaluation:Suggestions for improvement1. - Better teaching. Meaning go through the steps that are required to solve a problem and why those steps are taken instead of just going from the problem to the answer. The reason why many people didnt have questions during lecture was because many people didnt understand how the professor got to that point. There was a lack of adequate teaching of the concepts and the steps involving them.2. - Shorter problem sets. Many of us devoted over 10 hours per week working on the problem sets. While the process of working on prblem sets would have been expedited by thorough understanding of the material, even good understanding was not sufficient to complete the problem sets in a timely manner (less than 10 hours).Additionally...The fact that this class has no textbook is a big flaw. This is because when one's understanding of material is shaky, lecture notes become the only thing that a student may turn to. The lecture notes distributed in class are very general and skip too many steps to allow the student to gain a comprehensive understanding of the material.
It is a great class. The teacher is cool. and the material is sick.
Even though it's a tough class, it's a MUST for pre-meds.
Really different from any math class you've ever taken before (i.e. you have readings to do each week and you have a final paper instead of an exam) but interesting if you like the life sciences.  John Hall is great and actually makes an effort to get to know you even though it's a lecture class.
I wasn't sure how useful this class was until I had to analyze a random article (grounded in mathematical biology) for the final paper. I realized that the models presented in this class are ubiquitous in scientific literature. I was actually able to decipher the equations in my chosen article independently. This course definitely makes scientific papers seem more approachable. However, the problem sets are unreasonably difficult. If you're not willing to spend a substantial amount of time in office hours, don't take this class.
This class is extremely difficult!  If you want to do well, you are going to have to put in a lot of thought and a lot of dedication to learning the material.  It's rewarding in the sense that it's far outside any math or science class you've ever taken, but it's still stressful and confusing.
This class is a Neurobiology requirement, so might seem like just a necessary evil to get out of the way, but if you take a step back every once in a while, you will realize that the material is actually pretty cool.
This class is less work-intensive than Math 1b, but that does not mean that it is easier. The first half of the course is doable, but the second half picks up quickly and the concepts are considerably harder. You will probably have to take this course because it is a requirement, and in all honestly it's not that bad, just be prepared for the second half. The final project is not that hard if you start early and pick a paper that you can understand well.
This class is tough...The psets are brutal. But the resources for help and the extra problem sessions are great if you have time.
Extremely difficult class -- John Hall is a great professor, but the material itself does require a lot of effort outside of class time to understand. Problem sets take 6-10 hours a week--usually, students stay late during office hours the night before the pset is due (impossible or at least extremely difficult to do psets on your own). Definitely was not expecting this class to be this difficult--in retrospect, probably should have taken Math 21 (which, judging from my peers, is a relatively painless plug-and-chug class). Though I personally did not find the class particularly inspiring, the material itself could be pretty interesting at times. The bio articles we read were actually kind of cool (gave some concrete applications to what might otherwise be very abstract content). Good news is, the final is a paper and not a test. Also, John Hall is a great prof and person (though, with a soporific voice) -- he really makes a genuine attempt to get to know his students and will know your name well before the semester is over. And suffering through psets = good bonding opportunity with fellow students.
Take this class as your math class if you're for sure interested in doing the life sciences! Many of my friends took Math21 while I was taking this class and from what I've heard, this is a much more manageable workload, more enjoyable class, and overall much more relevant to what you'll be doing later on in life.  Definitely start psets early in this class and go to the CA office hours! Also, don't be afraid to ask for help on anything.  Professor Hall is awesome, he gets to know every single person's name, and he is crazy smart too.  You have to be sure you're going into life sciences though when you take this class because it won't carry over to some of the other concentrations.
This is not your typical math class: there are no textbooks, the material cannot be easily found outside of class (e.g. BSC does not have tutors), and it requires you to really look at the applications of the math that you're doing (a lot of "what does this mean physically"). If you like that,  then this is a great class (it really answers the question "when am I going to use this math"), however, if you're looking for a typical (high school type) math class, you're better off taking 1B or 21A. The class offers  A LOT of help (problem set review sessions 3 times a week, 5 sets of office hours, and 4 bio review sessions a week) that are EXTREMELY helpful. If you go to those, you are VERY likely to average near perfect on your homework category and the TF's and CA's and Dr. Hall really do a nice job of making sure that you not only know how to do the problems but that you UNDERSTAND the math. Also, the first midterm is very fair but the second one was significantly more difficult, however, the course staff was VERY generous in letting us redo some of the problems (so that we can LEARN the math) in order to receive a curved grade. Also, there is no final exam, rather, a final paper. A math paper may be confusing to think about but in actuality was a good experience because you interact with a lot of these papers throughout the semester and then the TF's and Dr. Hall are really helpful in helping you craft your draft and revision.
Be up to date with assignments and make sure you fully understand past concepts or else you will be lost understanding future ones.
GREAT CLASS. The second half is super difficult, but don't let that daunt you! Take the challenge.  The grading is very fair (in my opinion) so if you work hard and use all resources given to you to understand the material, then you will definitely be rewarded.
This class is a difficult but rewarding one. The TFs are very helpful and are willing to make time to work with you and make sure you understand the material. Be sure to utilize office hours to the fullest, and work with other students - it's very helpful!
Be prepared for quite a bit of unfamiliar material and a different perspective on how to use math. It is not your typical calculus or variable based math.
Don't underestimate the problem sets, they are difficult and can take a long time. The support isn't as good as a larger class like Math 21a. However, it's a good introduction to modeling, and feels much more relevant for life sciences concentrators.
If you enjoy understanding the way that mathematical concepts relate to biological phenomena, this is a great class. John Hall is a great lecturer, always clear and willing to help inside and outside of class. Problem sets can be difficult and be ready to think outside the box on the tests. Final project is fun and forces you to engage with math in ways you may not in other classes.
You will learn practical mathematics
This class is great for science concentrators who don't like straight math. The instructor is engaging and the material is presented in a very interesting way. There is a lot of support from TFs and CAs- you never feel alone. The exams are fair and no final is a huge plus. Overall, probably the best and most fair intro math class you can take at Harvard.
Only one p-set a week which is great! Problem sessions aren't as helpful as in math 1b but still provide a good resource.
This class does a wonderful job of getting you to think in a mathematical way.  You may not get the highest grade of your life, but the class is well worth your time.
If you like biology, you'll love this class. That doesn't mean its a biology class. Its basically modeling things like the spread of a virus of movement of other things. Even modeling the heart beat.
John Hall rocks
Excellent! This course made me like math for the first time in my life!
Really great course: definitely challenging, but the resources/help are there when you ask for them!
Its not for everyone.  A fairly decent background in biology is expected.  At the very least, you're expected to have an avid interest in biology.
This is a very hard class, but after struggling through it, you will be a more confident student.
its a great class. you'll enjoy it
It's a great course, the staff is really helpful especially John Hall, and having only one PSET a week is great for any math class!!
The project was nice when I think about it in retrospect.  It's an opportunity to truly view the link between math and biology.  The readings throughout the course were okay, but most often I did not understand them and had to rely on Mauricio's section for explanation/clarification.
It's maybe the best run class I've ever had, and hands down the best way to learn the math that you need to know for later classes. It was an extremely pleasant surprise.
There are many readings that we have to complete and blog about for this course; but they are interesting and show how math is applied to very specific real-life situations and research projects.
this class is a lot of work and kind of boring...at least there is no final
It's a great class to take if you would apply math to something bigger.  It was fun to see how calculus actually does get used in real life!
It's a great class, very well taught but it requires a lot of work out of you and a lot of outside work if you don't have an excellent calc foundation.
This is a good class if you're interested in biology from a math perspective. That being said, if you're not interested it might seem irrelevant at times.
You definitely don't need to take Math 1b for this class-- the few things you do need from 1b you can teach yourself and it's much less painful that way
I already loved math, but John Hall made me think of math from a completely different point of view.
This is a fantastic class. It is very well taught, well organized, and fair. The teachers are on your side and really want to help you learn. The material is fascinating, and will help you develop basic modeling skills in biology and other areas. Neither too easy nor too hard. I strongly recommend this course.
This course is a bit random in terms of the material covered, and can be difficult even if you think you understand the concepts.
If you are interested in the life sciences and you have to take a math course, this class should definitely be a consideration.
You should only take this if you need to take a math for your concentration. That being said, it's great for the life sciences, and it's relatively easy for a math class.
It's not bad - just start the problem sets early.
seems like an easy class, but it really isn't. John Hall seems to have changed a lot of things this semester, so don't be fooled by people who have taken this class telling you that it is an easy A. The problem sets are extremely difficult, the midterms are fairly challenging, and the final paper is time-consuming.
this class is a good way to fulfill the math premed requirement if you pass out of 1a and 1b. it is a lot of work--the problem sets are really long and tedious. the readings also seem daunting at first. but the material isn't too bad and Dr. Hall is a great teacher
The materials are hard so sometimes you just know how to do a problem and don't know why you are doing certain steps and the concepts behind it.
Great class, professor teaches well. Sections help you understand the material.
Go to the problem sessions for problem set help. Also take the practice exams before each midterm.
It's a great class. I think that it is definitely worth taking if you need to fulfill a math requirement at this level.
This class isn't bad, but it's apparent that there is a lack of CA's and extra help.  The problem sets can be extremely long and tedious to the extreme.
Thinking back, I wish I switched concentrations so I wouldn't have to take this class.
It's pretty enjoyable, and the workload isn't terrible.
It's a solid course, but I would only recommend the course to those that need it as a requirement.
I never thought I'd be writing a positive review of a math class in the CUE, but alas I am.... Math 19a is a really phenomenal course. It lets you put math into action and realize that math isn't useless! I was nervous about taking this class because I hadn't taken any math since 11th grade, but just stick with it. The first few weeks will be a little bit confusing but you can totally get back on track. The entire class has quite the learning curve, but eventually you get it and Dr. Hall and his very devoted teaching staff will help you the entire way. I think this class is extremely valuable and I would encourage anyone interested in biological or epidemiological research to take it!
This class is really great. There is a good amount of work that needs to be put in, but you really learn something at the end of the day. It is also a really nice feeling knowing that the math you do is actually really applicable to science in real life. The support from TFs and Dr Hall also helps tremendously in keeping up with the content.
This class gives you a lot of information that may seem foreign if you've never taken on differential equations. That being said, you must keep up with the material every week or it will be very difficult studying for exams and doing problem sets.
The teaching staff was great, if it weren't for them this class would be miserable. But they're awesome and it was a decent class given how hard I thought it was and how much work there is.
a challenging class that's worth every obstacle, material is refreshing, perspective on math and bio gets revolutionized
If you like biology, you will love this course. The material presented allows you to look at biological systems in a new way, and gain a much better understanding of why certain biological phenomena occur.
Go to office hours! Go to problem review sessions! Go to CA office hours! That's how to be successful in the course. There is a lot of help available, it's just up to you to take advantage of it. Also, start thinking about the final project early,
If you are interested in the life sciences and have a strong foundation in calculus, then I could not recommend this class more enthusiastically. I can honestly say that Dr. Hall is one of the kindest teachers I have had as well as one of the most organized and knowledgeable. He had lecture notes prepared for us at the start of each class that walked through everything we did in the lecture, which was very helpful when studying for the exams. We read two articles a week (life sciences articles that had mathematical models in them) which were very interesting, and I feel  a lot more confident going forward reading scientific articles. The psets were challenging but reasonably so, and CA office hours were very helpful for finishing them. I found the exams to be very fair. The final project (to create a math model for a scientific article or modify an existing model) was an extra challenge and made me realize how much I had learned in the class but also how much left there is to learn about mathematical biology, and I hope that I have the opportunity to learn more about it in the future.Again, I cannot emphasize how great Dr. Hall is, so you should know that, even though the course is challenging, it is extremely worth it. Our TF, Ben, was also very kind and helpful, and his biology sections and expertise about pattern formation helped us relate the math that we learned in class to the biology in the articles that we read. Shop the course and see for yourself, but expect to be challenged and enlightened if you choose to take the course.
This class is hard, but well worth the work. The teaching team is wonderful and will help you as much as you need to understand some really fascinating concepts in math. You'll get to apply math to important real life phenomena like language death and heroin use.
This class is amazing! Dr. Hall and the teaching staff are extremely helpful, so even though the material may be difficult, there are always chances to get help. For neurobiology concentrators, I highly recommend this course over either 21a course simply because it is applied to biological concepts and really improves primary reading skills. Make sure that you attend problem sessions! Also, be sure to prepare for the second exam far in advance. Putting in the extra effort to do well on the second exam will pay off. Lastly, enjoy the final project! It's a nice break from the typical final exam expected in math courses and it really allows you to reflect on the skills learned in the course.
A math class heavily weighted on using differential equations. Biology is always incorporated
This course has a great support system and teaching staff. All exams, problem sets, and readings, are challenging but fair. Get a group together to work on problem sets with and ask CAs for help if you need it!
The grading scheme is more than fair. Don't be afraid to take the course if you're just worried about marks. The concepts are interesting and well-taught, and the course staff is very helpful!
Great class because the staff is really willing to help you out and lectures are done really well. However, it is a challenging class that requires your effort and time.
Great course if you are interested in the actual application, great resources but definitely a huge time commitment. Sometimes lacking structure
This course is great, if you're willing to put in the effort. I'm not the greatest at math so I went to almost every office hour during the week in order to understand all of the problem set questions. The TFs were great and John is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard. He really makes the effort to make sure you understand what is happening in the course and you don't have to be worried if you got lost in the first 10 minutes of lecture. He will take the time to explain things to you until you get it. Fantastic for a math class.
This is an interesting math class, and I definitely recommend it for those who plan to study biology. John Hall is a great professor; he really makes an effort to get to know you and actually remembers your name. You will leave this class with a much deeper understanding of how to apply differential equations to real-world situations, and of how to derive insights from mathematical models. The workload is not too heavy- you have one problem set per week, and although it is fairly long and I would not recommend leaving it for the night before, this is what I did each week and it was still do-able. Make sure you pay attention during lecture, though- Dr. Hall can move through topics pretty quickly and it is easy to become lost if you aren't following along. Luckily, he posts great lecture notes online for each lecture, so you can refer back to these if you don't remember how to do something. If you put effort into this class, it should not be too hard to do well.
Good, solid class.  Reasonable amount of work, no final.  (Final paper instead.)  Connects to real world.
I would tell future students not to be discouraged by this class. Although it may be difficult at times, the staff is extremely helpful and willing to help. The problem and biology sections and office hours all help make this class much easier to understand. I would tell students to take advantage of these resources, because they do make a wealth of difference.
This is an absolutely fantastic course and John Hall is the best professor I have had and probably will ever have.  I am not a math guy but I REALLY enjoyed the class because it focuses on how calculus can be applied to biology and used to understand the natural world, medicine, etc.  Take your time on the problem sets to reinforce the material.  You will love this class and John is outstanding! Take it!
The class is very interesting.  Throughout your entire academic career before college you have told yourself at least once that this month isn't going to benefit you in the future well it is and this class will prove you.  Many problems we have in life can be explained with math. You will need to put in a lot of work but the class is worth it and John Hall is an amazing lecturer and a nice person.
This class was unlike the other math classes I've taken at Harvard (math 1a and 1b).  The material was much more interesting and applied to real life situations.  It was not dry material like I had experienced in math 1b.  I am very glad that I had to take this class for a requirement.
Don't underestimate this class just because it's not Math 21a. You may have one pset a week instead of three, but it's still a comparable amount of work due to the additional biology articles. This is one of those classes that I took because the information is essential rather than strategizing my GPA. This class is key to anyone looking to do life science research. I came in viewing science journals as written in another language. But now I love how I can actually interpret natural phenomena mathematically. Don't take this with more than one other science/math class so that you can get the most out of it.
John Hall is very nice and a clear lecturer. The second half of the course is more difficult than the first. This is a much easier, more pleasant option than 21a/b.
if you want to do well, and not the strongest with math, be prepared to spend a lot of extra time in sections, office hours, etc. to gain understanding.  but if you seek help and put in the time, you will be able to succeed!  I personally enjoyed the bio component, if you're not interested it may just seem like a lot of extra work
If you really want to take an application math class, then I would recommend this course.  Also, you only have one pset a week, so it's a lot easier than some other math courses in that sense.  However, if you are looking for your typical math class, this is NOT it.
The teaching staff is excellent. There are lots of ways to get help. The project was a great way to end the semester (much better than a final).
Even if you're slightly considering taking a math with some application to science or real life scenarios, I'd recommend taking this class.  Having taken Math 1b prior to Math 19a, I thought it was a very smooth transition, but a much more enjoyable class.  Dr. Hall is a great professor and I had some very helpful TFs and CAs.  The course material is manageable and very logical (follow formulas, little digression) and the research papers tie in perfectly (once you understand them with the help of biology sections and TFs).  The first exam is very straightforward.  For our second exam, it was much trickier, but Dr. Hall is very lenient and let us "redo" several problems.  Final portion is a research paper, an analysis of a research paper of your choice, which can be difficult but not too stressful with the help of TFs.
Keep up with the weekly homework assignments because doing the problem sets is a good way to review the material. Make use of the CA office hours.
Well-organized and well-taught, this course effectively hybridizes the concepts of differential equations and relevant biological articles/topics.
GO TO HELP-SESSIONS!
This class is a lot of work and can be quite difficult at times, but it keeps math interesting by applying the equations to real situations.
I think  this course is very well taught with great, interesting mathematical content. But, I think you should be aware that the course material is still difficult and it also takes time to learn.
Be sure to start problem sets early.  Don't put off the final project until the final week.  Go to office hours! John is willing to help!
This course did a good job of introducing mathematical modeling methods while showing how these methods are used in the literature. Wes was an amazing professor, and while this was his last semester, his replacement will probably really know their stuff as well. A piece of advice on the final project is to start early, especially if you don't need to use PDEs (partial differential equations), since you cover most if not all of the ODE stuff that you'd use on the project in the first two months. The bio discussion sections are also great for ensuring that you truly understand the articles.
Wes was a visiting professor so unfortunately I don't think future students will have the pleasure of working with him but he really made the class as awesome as it was! As did the CA, Ethan (who I think is teaching math 1b next year). I really liked this material anyways it was a really interesting new way to study biological systems.
- Much of mathematics is profound, beautiful and easy - but only provided you put the hard work in it, since mathematics most definitely is NOT a spectator sport. You do it hands-on, or you  don't understand anything. Conveying that it can be all of these three things -profound, beautiful and easy- is not an easy job, and the teaching staff at Math 19a did a superb job for it.  - Math 19a provides an intuitive understanding of differential equations and of their use in biology. It teaches the student to understand, use and apply a number of ODE and PDE models. it is taught in a friendly way, such that you feel it's easy even when you later realize it's not. Thhis teaching style is the opposite of intimidation. Here the professor and the teaching staff try to make you feel that of course you can do it, instead of trying to make you feel that they're smart and you're not (which sometimes happens with professional mathematicians - who sometimes ruin mathematics because they are incapable of teaching it without showing off and make it seem way harder than it actually is). - The hands-on is less for proving theorems and more for how to apply the methods and understand if they work and if the answers that you get make sense. - You do a lot of calculations (this is a proper math class, not a "qualitative answers" class), which is good.   - The problem sets are hard work (they take many hours), and they are harder than the exams. If you do well at problem sets (for which the teaching fellows help), the exams will feel pretty easy. There are two exams. - You will work hard but then feel you learnt a lot and that you can now use differential equations.- The final project is right after the second exam. There isn't much time for it, but the idea is to apply what you learnt for a real research problem - from the literature or your original idea.
A great class that gives you a lot of mathematical tools to work with and context for when and how to use them.
This is a great class to take because you are exposed to completely new material that is actually applicable to the life sciences! It is very interesting and you learn much from it!
As a biology person, this class was really interesting, as it made the math relevant and useful. Small class with so much help available, and surprisingly no final either.
this class was a pleasant surprise -- i was expecting to really dislike it, as i am not typically a fan of math courses, and was taking it to fulfill a neuro requirement. i found the topics covered really interesting, and ended up really enjoying my time in this class. the course overall was well taught, and there were always plenty of resources available for help on psets. it was nice to have a fairly small, intimate math class.
I took Math 19a for concentration credit, but it reminded me why I had once enjoyed math. It was a good balance of biology and mathematical techniques, all presented at a level that was interesting and thought-provoking without being difficult for the sake of being difficult. The assessments of our knowledge (hw & exams) were fair and really helped learn and cement the material. It was a great class for biology concentrators with an interest in modeling/math in general or those who just need to take math for credit.
I am so happy I took Math 19a this semester! I feel fortunate to have taken the class while Professor Wes Cain was teaching it. It was really neat to see how he connected the mathematical concepts to his research in cardiac rhythms and application of mathematical models. The course staff is incredibly dedicated to the students. Professor Cain, Raymond, and Ethan are the best! That said, Math 19a is a challenging course. You must have a strong background in Calculus II to succeed. Be sure to stay on top of all of the problem sets and readings so you never fall behind.
This class is great for pre-med and bio students who want to study math that they can apply to what they're passionate about. But, like any course, you can only get the most out of it if you put extra work outside of class to review the material, which I frankly didn't do and now regret.
This class was taught by a visiting professor, so I have no idea what it will be like with other professors. However, I think the general course will be the same, and I found it very interesting and rewarding.
This course is very interesting for those interested in the scientific, particularly biological, application of multivariable calculus.
This class was absolutely amazing. I was initially in 21a but really struggled with the material; switching into 19a was the best decision I could have made. Math has never been my strong suit but this class made the material approachable and extremely interesting. The classwork is manageable, the lectures are extremely well taught, and there are a ton of resources to use. I highly recommend this class to anyone who has a math requirement but doesn't necessarily love math.
This class is super solid overall, though definitely expect to put in the time!
This class is actually quite applicable and will arm you with the skills needed in understanding a mathematical approach to the life sciences.
The TF, Stephen, is awesome. If he returns, get to know him. He's a bro. He talks really fast so make sure you pay attention. On the reading questions, don't freak out. A lot of what stephen talks about- like all the algebra and 'scaling/nondimensionalization' is not going to be on the test, so when he starts spewing algebra all over the chalkboard, don't worry! It won't be tested. Wes is funny, caring, and he is definitely a good guy. While his lectures aren't super helpful, his notes and lecture videos are great for exam study. Make sure you sit through lecture with his notes open and to see what he's doing.Go to CA office hours. Alex is amazing. He does everything. He stays for 2 hours after his official 'office hours' end because he cares so much about the students. He's been in the job for years so he's a genius. While he's a senior, don't worry. Matty is the other CA and while he wasn't this year, I think he will be the next 'alex' type guy and he seems pretty cool. The midterms are easy and great if you understand the psets. start the pset the day it's posted and do a little every day. Did I mention that Wes holds office hours? Go to those. Somehow, only the same 10-15 people go to those every week, and they're not surprisingly the people who do best in class. If you have something scheduled during his regular Office hours, at least go to the CA office hours. I'm glad I took this over Math 21a or AM21a. They seem much harder and my friends struggled in those while I was working hard in 19a, but getting nicer grades. The final project is a godsend. Pair up with someone smart and you'll do fine. Psets aren't bad at all, due once a week, and you can crank those out pretty easily IF and ONLY IF you work at them day by day.
If you are interested in being introduced to modeling population dynamics and performing basic analyses of system behaviors, this is a great course for you. Also, I thought the weekly readings of scientific literature were a great idea; it was useful to apply mathematical techniques taught in class to real biological systems.
This is an excellent class, the best I have taken at Harvard. Wes Cain is superb. His speed was perfect, he did a great job reviewing the previous class before diving in to new material, and lectures were well organized. The notes were quite helpful and the problem sets did a great job of helping us cement learning without being impossible. Importantly, the teaching staff put a tremendous amount of time into helping students learn and succeed. I was so, so impressed that there was so much individualized attention available to each student. The project was great -- it took lots of committment from the teaching staff, but we were encouraged to use it to follow our own interests. I learned a ton!
I would recommend this course to all biologists (and in particular ecologists) to follow this class. It provides the necessary background to understand fundamental quantitative aspects of these disciplines. In addition, it fosters a very appreciable understanding of mathematical modeling encountered in the scientific literature.
In my opinion, this course is good for students who have already taken Calc I-III and Linear Algebra and want to do something a little different. (As was my case.) It's very fascinating to port biologic processes over into mathematical equations and somehow have it all work out. And what's great is that much of the material taught in this course stands alone. You actually don't need any linear algebra background or advanced calc to take this course. Great math course for bio majors and knocks out a pre-med math requirement. Win-win.
Great course for people who love math and are also interested in the life sciences. Wes is a phenomenonal instructor and explains the math very clearly. Exams were a fair reflection of the material taught in class/problems on the pset. You definitely have to keep up with the work and do the readings (both lecture notes and the journal articles) in order to not only do well, but get the most out of the class.
Wes Cain is a shining beacon of warmth, kindness, and sarcasm.  You will fall in love with him instantly.  #wescain2016
The lectures were very clear, and I loved the integration of the biology into every discussion about math. It was a fascinating class! I really loved the readings and the reading discussion sections.
For the biological articles, you definitely need to read the teacher fellow's reviews. The articles can be confusing, but the teacher fellows' notes help incredibly. Also, make sure you read Professor Cain's lecture notes when you are confused about a lecture because they help a lot and prevent you from falling behind in knowing the topics. Take advantage of the notecard that Professor Cain allows you to use for the midterms: make sure to put notes from both lectures and the articles. Take advantage of the office hours, especially from the student aides (Alex) because they are very helpful and it is easier to do the p-sets when you are working with other students with you. You should dedicate a lot of time for studying for the midterms because they can be difficult and there are no curves.
This was a very well-taught, enjoyable class. I liked the concept of learning math for the life sciences from the start, and was pleasantly surprised at the effectiveness of the lectures, lecture notes and psets in teaching the material.
I was never much of a math person, but I thought that this course was probably the most enjoyable and interesting math related class that I've ever taken. The professor is really wonderful and loves teaching his class, and he's just a great teacher in general. The content in the course can be challenging at times but never impossible or undoable, and there is plenty of help in the form of office hours, lecture notes, and problem/review sessions. One thing is that even though you don't have to have any background in biology or the sciences to take this class, it really helps if you've read through scientific articles and papers before, since a lot of the class involves reading things with a lot of science jargon and it can be really challenging if you're not familiar with that sort of stuff. But there's also a lot of help provided in the class anyway, so don't let that prevent you from at least shopping the course.
Well, don't take this class if you'll be an Ec major because you need Math 18/21+. OTHERWISE, take this course because it will eat up less of your time than M21/AM21 and because of Prof Cain, who is an incredible lecturer and such a nice man. This math course is the first one I've taken that is so wholly focused on application that you learn to appreciate the power of mathematics. I fell in love with the sciences after taking this course (originally considering a math/stat concentration).
Wes is willing to do everything he can to help you, but ultimately what determines whether or not you succeed in this class is your own effort. Do not fall behind in the class--keep updated with the material because a lot of it comes at you very fast. Be aware that it is easy to fall behind in this class being that there is only a midterm and a final.
Because my background in AP Calculus was not as strong as that of most of my classmates, I struggled, even at times when my classmates found the material more manageable.
Professor Cain's enthusiasm makes this class worth taking to fulfill math requirements.  It does a great job applying mathematical concepts to the life science, which is very valuable for seeing math outside of abstractions.
Please please please feel like you could navigate BC calculus with ease.
It's a very well taught course, and is useful in understanding mathematics depicted in biological papers.
A great course if you want to learn about the interplay of mathematics and biology. Alex Heyde is by far THE BEST course staff I have ever had at Harvard.
It's an extremely difficult course, but really interesting and rewarding. Also, the professor makes it an amazing course.
If you are reading this and deciding between 19a and 21a or some other higher level math course, take 19a if you are interested in life sciences. It is not the hardest class, though it will require a good amount of work and studying. Grades aren't hard, although I wouldn't say its inflated. Overall, a good class for any pre-med, as many of the examples are very interesting.
This class is interesting if you are interested in both math and science, as it relates the two in a relatively new and potentially useful way (depending on your future career). It can be challenging at times, but the problem sets help guide you through learning the course and preparing you for exams. The teaching staff is also very available to help, offering many opportunities for assistance if you don't understand something. Overall, I enjoyed this class, though it was challenging and occasionally took up a lot of time finishing psets.
Consider what kind of math class you would learn best from -- the typical high school-y math lecture (Math 21a, 1b) or an applied, very differently structured math class.
It's great if you like math but want to do something more meaningful than solve textbook problems.
I definitely recommend this course, especially if you concentrate in a life science or read a lot of papers and want to understand the math. The workload is definitely manageable and all the assignments and exams are fair, as is the grading. I really enjoyed this course and I found it very useful for my concentration and lab work. This is a well taught course and a great introduction to modeling.
It was tougher than expected. One needs to enjoy the material and be ready to work hard.
This class is a lot of work, but it's very rewarding and there is such a great support system with the CAs' office hours as well as Wes' office hours. Even though the problem sets are challenging, again, if you go to these office hours, you'll be able to do them. Wes is an extremely good lecturer, and Stephen is very good with discussing the math material in the scientific articles with us during his reading review sections, so don't be overly worried about that component of this course. I think it's such a fascinating course, and I recommend it! It's so interesting to be able to apply math to biological systems in the way that we do in this class.
Fantastic course!  Highly recommend!
If you're interested in biology research, this course is an incredible introduction to modeling, and to many topics in quantitative biology. If you plan to take more advanced quantitative bio courses in the future, take this one as a gateway before. Wes is also the perfect professorgenerates enthusiasm, cares about students understanding the material and gets very involved in the research projects.
Good class.  Difficult. Uncurved, so be careful.  Very supportive.  Likely to be hugely useful for OEB, Chem.
Good applied math course for prospective life science majors!  You will gain an appreciation for mathematical modelling.  This course does not involve rigorous proofs, and instead focusses on analysis of models.
Professor Cain is an excellent professor, but the class is very difficult. Every math class I have had up until this point has been very quantitative: you see a problem, you learn the steps to do them, you follow the steps exactly, you get an A. This class is very qualitative, you are trying to understand what the problems mean in a biological context as well as a mathematical one. This requires a total shift of mindset in that you are required to think about the context of problems biologically in order to understand and solve them. This is a difficult class, but with a lot of preparation and time-management, it is doable.
I would highly recommend this class over Math 21a especially if they are going into the life sciences because the work is a lot easier to understand when it is presented to you with science you understand.
It is very easy, but lectures are confusing.
this course equips you with necessary understandings for life sciences research!
A very reasonable class to take to fulfill the biology math requirment. Definitely recommended over Math 1b.
The class is really not that difficult, and it teaches you useful skills.
It's a good class for people who aren't really into mathematics, but either need to take a math class or want to understand a different side of math.
Do not be intimidated because this is a higher math course. It is navigable and manageable.
Low stress, friendly atmosphere, kind of disorganized, and interesting (for a math class).
If you're looking to go into the life sciences, Math 19a is an interestingly different approach to differential equations.  Especially if you've taken a kind of classic multivariable before (like Math 21a), Math 19a really shows you how you can apply the math tools you gained in the earlier classes.  If you're planning to do any higher math or very difficult physics/chemistry, I don't think this class is very good preparation, though.  The class itself is also quite easy.
It is a good class if you'd like to see calculus used in biology. Take it unless you have strong qualitative backjground and want to learn some real mathematical modeling for biology. Do not expect to learn tremendous amounts of multivariable calculus in this class.
You must have a love for differential equations, because that is actually the only thing you "learn". I really wish there was more to the course and that the concepts hadn't been so forced.
You definitely have an edge, and it will be a piece of cake, if you've already taken multivariable calc.  If you haven't, it's probably still better for a concentration requirement than jumping straight into Math 21a, but it is a battle because you have had so much less experience with the material.
This is a useful class for pre-med, and generally interesting. However lecture is kind of useless, in that it is far too conceptual and goes around proving useless theorems.
It's a relatively easy math class
This was one of the few class that I have taken in three years in which a professor has truly taken the time to get to know his students, both in class and out, and I appreciate how much more comfortable this made it to work with the material we had to learn. I was not treated as though I lived within a bubble, where math class was the only thing I ever did with my life at school. I felt very respected, and for that was much more willing to make efforts with the work, as well as take the time to explore the applications of this material even beyond the approaches we learned in class. I am currently trying to incorporate biological modeling into a final paper for another class, and I can do this because I am not by any means sick of the subject.
good math class if you want an easy A and no stress or final
Math 19a has the potential to be very interesting, as it teaches students about mathematical modeling and differential equations from the perspective of the life sciences and actual scientific literature. However, Professor Judson often makes errors and could be more prepared.
One has to come to class really attentive and prepared, as the nature of the lecture sometimes facilitates a drifting-off process!
If you have to fill a math requirement, but aren't a big fan of math, this is a good class.  On the other hand, if you really like math, take something else; if you don't have to take math, don't bother taking this class.
I wish I had found a group to do problem sets with.  I would not have been as lazy.
This could have been an incredible course when I took it. Imagine finally being able to apply all that calculus on real life examples, while simultaneously reading articles about how scientists did use that math. But it was not executed all that well. I recommend with reservations because there is no much potential.
This class is good if you are interested real life examples of the use of math.  It will not break your back with the workload.
It covers interesting material and is a relatively painless class.
It's very easy to just do things in this course without truely understanding what's going on, so I only recommend it to people who would truely like to understand the mathematical reasoning behind the models, because once you do, it can become very interesting.
Easier than math 1b, do consider taking 19a even if you were placed in 1b
Didn't learn a lot of math.
the professor really (actually) cares about teaching this course.
The methods will come in useful in the life sciences, but it may be more worthwhile to learn pure mathematics and make the connections on your own.
If you want an easy but bad and frustrating class, this is the one to take.  Its an easy way to fulfill your math requirement.
Take this class if you are interested in science, otherwise take 21a.  Also, go to the sections/office hours because they make what is often a slightly confusing topic seem crystal clear!
Lectures are confusing and there are many mistakes made on the board.  Be sure to use pencil and bring extra erasers.
I never knew that biology could be modeled the way we modeled it in class.  I think I like math much better now that it's not just numbers on a page.
I would tell them to take this class when Professor Judson is not teaching the class.  The material is extremely interesting and could be even more so, if the professor did not create such unnecessary confusion.
This is an easy class if you understand the basic principles of calculus, and the applications to life sciences make it interesting.
The class is easy, but not that rewarding.
Yes, you can sleep during lecture. It's alright.
This course is very doable; it's a great way to get the required two math courses beyond math 1a that you need for some science concentrations because it doesn't require much work and has applications in the life sciences.
If you are doing anything in the field of science this class is amazing. Not only is the math useful but it also really helps you to read through scientific papers. Research-findings can be very difficult to sift through and this class exponentially increased my confidence in reading those articles
Take a lot of time making sure that you understand everything on the problem sets.
This is a terrific class for anyone interested in biology who wants to extend their high school math background. Wes is an incredible lecturer who really cares about his students and ensures that every component of the course is fair and enjoyable. I recommend taking it in the spring if it is still taught then, since class sizes are much smaller.
This course does a good job both teaching the necessary mathematic material as well as applying to biological models. It is done in such a way that it is generally enjoyable and not too stressful throughout the course. I was skeptical of the final project at first, but it actually ended up working out pretty well and was certainly rewarding.
Wes is a wonderful professor! He is very enthusiastic about the material, is always willing to answer questions and explains the material very well in class. Alex, the CA, is also great! He can help you out if you are ever stuck on a problem or the entire PSet!
