Professor Duncan is one of the most dedicated teachers at Harvard.  He is brilliant, compelling, and exciting to learn from.
The course was way better than i expected it to be. Beside learning a lot of stuff thoroughly, my horizons expanded much with concepts and topics i do not yet fully comprehend, but the course gave me some idea of them and desire to learn further.
A nifty math elective that pulls together material from many other courses.
This class is a fantastic intro to the classical motivation behind algebraic geometry.
A great introduction to AG!
The course content is great, and the lectures are good, though they can sometimes be confusing and mixed up. In those cases, it is best to ask plenty of questions and start a class discussion - these always helped me understand the material better in the end.
This class was great. Yaim is a very good instructor and although you can see she is new at teaching, she improved a lot over the semester. I think she put an honest effort into accommodating all of us and our different levels of understanding. I wish more math lecturers were like her.
This class, probably because it was taught by Melody, was just awesome.  The lectures were very well done, and we got through a substantial amount of material especially because Melody was so thoroughly prepared and knew which details to skip over and which ones to lay out full.  It was very apparent that Melody spent a good deal of her time making the course great.That aside, this class is a great place to either pick up some algebra or solidify your commutative algebra knowledge.  It gives a good intuition as to why we care to study about some of these rather artificial looking algebraic objects (like, why would you care about a radical of an ideal, or that it is graded, or that it is prime, and so forth).  With a good geometric picture always accompanying the algebra, with this course you can definitely get a taste of why algebraic geometry is so big.
Algebraic geometry is a very interesting subject and I learned a lot taking this course with Melody. She is a great instructor and has high expectations for all of her students. However, this course changes a lot based on the instructor, so if Melody is not teaching it, I would make sure the instructor is good before enrolling.
Melody is a great teacher! Give her feedback and she will take it into account and make the course even better for you! Also, Cox, Little O'Shea is a great text for AG (much mroe readable than the other classic texts). I also like the tiny bit of algorithmic/computation aspects injected into the class.
This class is amazing.
The material is fascinating, and Melody is a fantastic lecturer.  Problem sets were, by the end, pretty involved, but it was a very friendly and fun course.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Definitely take this class!
Melody is great. By far one of the best teachers I've had in the math department. Take anything Melody teaches. The material (algebraic geometry) was interesting, and the Grobner basis perspective was very nice. It was fun to work together on problem sets with the others in the class. The course covered a lot of material and ended up being a bit of a challenge for many of us, but I found it to be very, very worthwhile.
I found this class to be a great introduction to algebraic geometry. Teaching was great, as were the problem sets (overall). A few drawbacks were that I was sometimes unsure of the purpose of lectures until after they were given (this is more a reflection of Kronheimer's teaching style than the course, I imagine). One thing to note: this iteration of the course deals mostly with plane curves (i.e. curves in CP^2), so don't expect to learn much about general varieties or k[X1,...,Xn] under Kronheimer. You'll be working in CP^2. I was skeptical at first but found this nice since there are still lots of interesting questions about curves in CP^2.
Math 137 was a great course. Kronheimer made the material flow in a very natural way. Although I was not a big fan of the textbook (Kirwan) the lectures were always much more fascinating than what was going on in the textbook. The homework assignments were interesting in themselves and there were many extra problem that carried no credit but were interesting to solve -- or just to think about -- after having finished the homework. Algebraic geometry is also an incredibly interdisciplinary topic and the course did a good job exploring the various faces of this field. Overall very good course.
As it is algebraic geometry it is certainly somewhat difficult but Kronheimer makes what is required of this course more than reasonable.  The psets and exams have been rather straightforward, though lecture can be somewhat boring and at times hard to follow.  I really liked the fact that Kronheimer spent most of the time in two dimensional complex space, as it makes the curves much easier to visualize, though we did not spend too much time looking at more general varieties, which some people may not like as much.
This course takes a lot of time and is relatively difficult.
I absolutely loved this course; the lectures are very clear and well-presented, and the material is fascinating. Throughout the course, arguments of  both geometric and algebraic flavors were present, and often solutions would use some conjunction of the two. I found this really cool.
Super awesome course material, and it is incredible to take the class with Harris!
It's great! Pretty fun math class to take and gets you thinking! Not really that useful though I guess the background is good for when you take schemes.
This is an excellent introduction to Algebraic Geometry. A solid understanding of basic topology and 123-level algebra is very useful but not strictly necessary. You will get a lot more out of the class the more algebraic maturity you have.
As with most math courses, this one really depends on who is teaching it. I found Professor Harris to be likeable and effective, while Aaron and Hannah were both very available and knowledgeable. In general, though, this can be a good course to take because it helps you learn some algebra while using your intuition about geometry, and vice versa.
A strange class. Prof. Harris is an excellent lecturer, and the material is, at times, very interesting. However, this is very different from most math class in that there are very few theorems. In fact, for most of the semester there are only definitions and examples. Nonetheless, this class is a good way to learn the classical subject and is probably sufficient classical background for learning schemes. The textbook, AG: A First Course, was very informal. This, in conjunction with Harris's own informal lecture style, at times made the course harder than it needed to be. Of course, this is the still the best undergraduate text, so there you go. The homework was fine. Sometimes there were difficult problems, and occasionally there were problems which required machinery which had not been introduced. The class involves a lot of linear algebra, so that's certainly a prerequisite, but it might be the only one. Some comfortability with thinking geometrically is always helpful. There were some groups and a topology floating around, and some function fields, but none of these things was really central.
Prof. Harris is a fantastic lecturer and we covered a lot of interesting topics with a pretty good amount of depth and rigor. Aaron and Hannah were fantastic CAs. The homeworks were hard but really helped me understand more about what we talked about. Algebraic geometry is very elegant and reminds me why I love math!
Great material, great class. Harris is one of the best teachers in the department. Read the textbook and put the time into the problem sets, they're good learning tools.
Harris is a great and enthusiastic lecturer, problem sets are interesting although they got more difficult towards the end.
Professor Harris is an awesome lecturer, and the material is very interesting - take this class!
This course will give you great understanding of algebraic geometry, which is a difficult thing to do. Getting there is messy, because a lot of things are difficult to define without using modern tech.  Harris does a great job presenting intuition.  Be prepared to go over your notes over and over.
Joe Harris is a wonderful lecturer. Also no midterm or final! Great stuff.
Fantastic course with Prof. Harris and Aaron and Hannah as CA's. Would advise heeding the 123 prereq.
This is one class you must take if you want to do math. Harris is a great lecturer, but I personally did not like his mathematical style very much.
This class is one of the great accomplishments of our species. It appears that algebraic varieties are Professor Harris's personal friends. He is a charming, brilliant lecturer - and his manner of teaching is far more motivated than that of many a Harvard math class. Of course, the cost to this is that the lectures are not done in a "definition lemma Proof Corollary" style - it is far more intuitive and varied. Often several "interim" definitions of a concept will be offered until finally it is nailed down precisely. I consider this to be a great boon of the class. It takes some getting used to, but it is so worth it. It was a privilege to be a part of this course. Also, our CA's, Aaron and Hannah - are simply amazing. All are kind, accessible, and give extremely good feedback.
This course is a good introduction to algebraic geometry. Professor Harris is also wonderful and if he's teaching this course again it would be a great time to take it!
Some people don't like the subject. I did, and Harris is a great professor.
Professor Harris is incredible. The one thing is that sometimes the problem sets are hard
