This class requires a lot of time. It is absolutely doable and you can totally lesrn a lot and do well, but only if you have enough time to invest to be successful. So I honestly suggest this being your only hard class you take in the semester.
Prepare to spend a lot of time on this course. You need to be on top of your stuff (timely proof presentations, beginning psets early, etc) to feel happy / ready / hopeful about the class. The lectures are pretty boring, and most people just watch online on Canvas (it helps, too since you can pause whenever you want on parts that are unclear). Your CAs will be your lifesavers. Go to all the office hours if possible.
Keep on your proofs. Hate em or love em, you have to do them.
It's quite useful if you want something more than 21a (more theory and proofs), but still not at a very high level. In other words, it's great if you really want to learn maths but not spend most of your time on it. At times the explanations of the concepts might seem annoying and nonsensical, but the problems, sections and videos make everything pretty clear. Overall, I definitely learned a lot and don't regret taking it.
If you've taken and understood BC calculus and like the idea of more abstract math, you'll be fine.  CA office hours and late sections are really helpful.  I would also highly recommend going to Paul's office hours, especially because that forces you to stay on top of learning proofs.
Gives a decent introduction to proof-based mathematics if you haven't learned it yet.  The course material is quite interesting; it allows you to learn linear algebra, real analysis, and topology from a perspective that is better than that used at the high school level.  Many of the proofs are pretty cool too.  Just be wary of Paul's lecture style, as it can be a bit dry at times.
This class was a relatively shallow introduction to linear algebra and real analysis. Before taking this class, I was under the impression that the entire first semester would focus on linear algebra. In reality, only four weeks were devoted to linear algebra; after comparing the linear algebra material in 23 with the material in 25 and some higher level linear algebra textbooks, I realized that we had only scratched the surface of linear algebra. I had originally intended to take 25 but realized that it had two main disadvantages compared to 23: (1) it offered very few concrete examples and treated almost all concepts abstractly, and (2) it had a much heavier workload and much harsher grading than 23. Although I don't know how much real analysis 25b covers, I'm almost certain that it is more rigorous and comprehensive than the four weeks of real analysis that were taught in 23a. That being said, 23a does provide a somewhat decent introduction/entry-level treatment of fundamental topics in linear algebra and real analysis. If you want more computation and less rigor, 21 might be a better choice (based on the 21 psets that I've seen others doing), but if you're really serious about math and have some computational background with linear algebra, 25a is probably a better choice. In any case, I wish there had been some kind of hybrid between 23a and 25a, with rigorous, thorough treatment of linear algebra, relatively lenient grading, relatively light or moderate workload, and sufficient illustrative computational examples.
Challenging but rewarding.
Great course. Paul got rid of R (thank god). Paul's lectures aren't terrific, but his lecture notes are pretty amazing. Homework is okay, until the end of course when it became entirely too long. Expect at least 4-5 hours on psets but less than 10 hours. Midterms are reasonable. Proofs are often enlightening (present them early). Sebastian Wagner-Carena is sassy yet wonderful. Kenneth Wang is God.
This course is what you make out of it. Lecture notes and videos are posted online and pset problems are almost identical to those in lecture, so it is very easy to slack off. I ended up trying to learn 4 weeks of material the day before each midterm/final.
This is an amazing course with an amazing professor! Dr. Bamberg is a phenomenal lecturer and is able to explain difficult concepts clearly and with humor. The course intertwines linear algebra, real analysis, and multivariable calculus and in doing so succeeds in showing off the beauty of mathematics. This is a truly amazing course!
This is an excellent preparation for Grad School applications in Economics. It combines so many relevant aspects of linear algebra, real analysis and applying both of these to multivariable calculus. Be prepared to do a lot of proofs (they are actually great in getting easy points on exams, towards your final grade but also just understanding concepts a lot better). The course requires quite a big time commitment but you will walk away from it understanding a ton of material within the course of a semester!
This class is very time consuming but if you are able to put in the time and effort you will get a good grade.
This course will teach you a lot of math, but much of the learning has to be done on your own. Paul is very intuitive with math and will skip steps in lecture that leave concepts confusing to understand. Take this class if you like math and are looking for a challenge, but be willing to put in a lot of time.
I came into this with a year of multivar/linear algebra in high school, and no proof background. The symbols/logic involved in proofs was definitely intimidating and created a high barrier to entry initially, but tough as it was, I do agree with Paul that you don't REALLY need proof background to take the course. It just makes the class that much harder. Lectures are all online, but reviewing the scanned lecture notes is just as effective. Watch Kate's lecture preview videos!! The difficulty of exams is perfectly reasonable, on par with the group problems, but Psets are significantly harder and way more time-consuming than the effect they have on your grade actually justifies. Pro tip - learn and present your proofs as early as possible to maximize bonus points!
Don't take this class, take 25 if you're serious about math or 21 if you want a more gentle introduction.
Math 23a is a good class to take if you have some linear algebra and/or multivariate background (i.e. too much to take 21) but are hesitant to jump into something as time-consuming as 25a, especially if 25a is as hard as it was this year. Paul is a good lecturer (but you might prefer watching the lectures online later on 2x speed, hint hint) and approachable outside of class. The problem sets can have some confusingly-worded questions, but you get used to it after a while. All in all, it's a solid class to learn some very important math in a minimally-painful way.
A great introduction for those who have never performed proof-based math!
Math 23a is not as bad as some people say it is. The PSETS are quite doable and so are the midterms and the final. If you watch lecture, go to office hours and work with people on PSETS, you will be fine (assuming you are ready for this course). That being said, there is no curve in the course and it's easy to get points off on exams. So, get all the points you can... also make sure that you justify your steps when you prove things on tests (just to be overly careful, because I missed a couple points for not stating what axioms I was using). Also, you probably won't get much better at writing proofs, if that's what you're looking for. If you can memorize proofs, you will be fine for the proof-writing portion of the class, for the most part. There was a portion on every test where you just had to regurgitate the proofs taught in lecture. The problems that require proving things on the spot are generally pretty straight-forward and will be problems that you have done several times already (i.e. for all epsilon > 0, there exists N s.t. for all n > N, |s_n - s| < epsilon, etc.)
Math 23 is definitely better than its reputation may suggest. It takes a while to get used to the idiosyncrasies of the course, but when you do, you realize that the material covered is quite enjoyable. Getting to meet Paul in person is recommended.
Be prepared to work hard in this class. P-sets are challenging, but with a solid group of friends to work with, this class can be rewarding. Although the pre-requisite for this class is a 5 on AP Calc BC, the rigor of this class is much more intense than that of a high school calculus class.
Paul Bamberg is a very poor lecturer. I never understood anything in his lectures as he would hardly explain what he was doing. Therefore, I relied almost entirely on the textbook and other students as well as my TF to get by, adding way more hours than necessary to learn the course material. A prerequisite for this course is enthusiasm for math. Read this line carefully. What it is really saying is that you must have such a high enthusiasm for math that you can overcome how poorly taught and structure the course is and learn the material by yourself and with some help from the other students in the course. Don't take this course. Take 21.
Math 23 is a bit of a black sheep when it comes to intro math classes. With proper background and work it is definitely mangeable; it is not nearly as bad as some might describe it to be.
The course provides you with many resources to succeed.
This class has so many difficult proofs that you'll spend your time memorizing them rather than actually learning them, unless you're willing to commit all your time to the course of already have heavy proof background. I wouldn't reccomend unless you have lots of prior experience with proofs.
It's a lot of fun. And the proofs show you that math can be really elegant when it wants to be.
It is poorly taught, overly complicated and incredibly frustrating. Unless Paul changes his lecture style, and the format of the course outside of lecture, and all the instructors change the focus of their instruction from the tests to our understanding, no one will enjoy the class or take as much away from it as they could.
This class can be time consuming. I felt that for the time put in it was not as rewarding as it could be. The problem was that Math 25 with Tasho was just a nightmare and this year. Encourage to check out 25 and if its too hard drop to 23. Exams involve section problem isomorphomisms and study the lecture notes. Reading the book on topics that Bamberg is poor at explaining is also good. Don't spend too much time on HW in the class. It is so little part of your grade and the questions on the final don't resemble it in anyway.
This course covers very interesting material that is presented in nontraditional ways. It is worth knowing that lectures are not the most exciting and sections are not the most helpful or productive. The time consuming problem sets feature challenging problems that help solidify concepts but they are sometimes tedious. The memorization and presentation of proofs is good training and forces you to learn the material. However, the appearance of randomly selected proofs on the midterms and final can make studying quite burdensome.
This is a great but challenging class. The amount of material covered in one semester is amazing, and I really feel like I learned a lot from this class. It was quite time-consuming having to learn large amounts of material in short spans of time, but the difficulty level of the exams is fair and there are many opportunities for extra credit in the class.
Take this class if you're interested in learning mathematical proofs but you're not very comfortable with math and proofs. If you have a very strong background in math, I would suggest Math 25a instead. However, if you have any major doubts, definitely choose 23a.
This is a tough class and you have to take it seriously. I would recommend to stay on top of the work (problem sets and proofs) and definitely attend lecture, even though the videos are online. Also, attempt to spend time each week to review lecture notes, to save effort in studying for midterms and finals.
This course is very challenging. Be prepared to devote most of your time to this class. Also, a knowledge of proofs is especially helpful for this course. While the lectures aren't very effective, the early and late sections help with understanding the material. Additionally, lots of office hours help with getting the problem sets done and helping with your understanding of the material.
The course is a lot of work and pretty stressful. Paul sometimes moves too fast and it's hard to understand everything. It's a good option if you want proof experience without spending as much time as in Math 25a, but the material is pretty difficult and a lot of time needs to be spent going over the material on your own, and a lot of it is not fully explained that well.
This course is difficult but really worth it in the end. I came out of the class truly feeling like a mathematician and none of my other math classes had done that for me which was a great feeling.
do not waste your time taking this class! if you are passionate about math, take the challenge and take 25. if not so much, do yourself a favor and take 21.
Take it only if you have to.
Take this class if you're interested in physics and/or economics. If you're going to be a theoretical math concentrator, then don't take this class.
Math 23 is not as hard as Math 25, but it's much harder than you might think, and more abstract than you might think.  Be warned.
This course integrates various different mathematical concepts in a rather messy manner, with both theoretical and computational approaches, which can be frustrating. Read the textbook carefully to fully understand the concepts because it is unlikely that you'll absorb everything just by coming to the lectures.
The course description says it's a theoretical math class. We learned about eleven-legged alligators and that it's legal if your parents serve you alcohol. Someone made a mistake here. Take Math 21a instead, or Math 25a if you have the talent and the time. It is not a good Linear Algebra, Multivariable Calculus, or Math couse. There should be a course like Math 25a (with all of Linear Algebra, then Real Analysis followed by Multivariable), but that is more accessible to people who only have AP Calculus BC as background.
interesting subject material, but difficult assignments
It's great for someone who doesn't know if they like pure or applied math.
This class teaches the material and proofs, but has a lot of gaps. Also, it doesn't require a huge amount of individual proving; the proofs part is more memorization.
If you know multivariable and linear algebra, this course will give a different perspective and different (potentially better) notation, as well as interesting applications if you like. Not particularly difficult, but very rewarding. Also, some of the people you meet are great!
This was the perfect course for my level. I would've been bored in 21 or died in 25. It's not math 25 lite, which is a good thing. I like the balance between theoretical and applicable mathematics. Keep math 23 the way it is!
Be prepared to be proactive in asking for help if you need it. Take advantage of office hours. Work in study groups.
Challenging but manageable
Review text and lecture notes in advance.
It's very difficult.  Don't do it if you don't like math.  A LOT.
The class is a great opportunity to improve your math skills, but it can be frustrating. Don't go into the course because you think you are better than people in 21, do it because you really, really like math and want to spend a lot of your semester thinking about it.
This class was a pain in the ass, but after all that work and frustration I discovered that I had actually learned things along the way. A great class for those disinclined to pursue math but would like a better understanding of multivariable calculus.
It is difficult, requires a tolerance of bad teaching
The topics in this class become fairly abstract, but that's a good thing- it actually feels like a college-level course.
Its more difficult than you'd think!
work with others -- don't try to struggle through assignments on your own
Go into math 25 at the start of the year and then drop down if its too hard.
Only go into it if you have worked with proof-based math before, or if you definitely plan on making math your concentration. If you are uncomfortable not understanding every little thing about a class's material, don't take it. If you are uncomfortable with a different structure of math class from high school, don't take it.
Don't take it. Math 23 is simply not worth it. Either challenge yourself by doing Math 25 and actually learn something, or take Math 21 and learn it at a more leisurely pace.
The work is manageable but you will have to invest time on your own because lecture and section do not explain everything.
I have enjoyed this course greatly, and have benefited from learning theory and practice simultaneously. However, Professor Bamberg has confused many students with his sometimes harebrained of contradictory statements, despite his obviously extensive knowledge and experience.
This class is an easy theory-based math class. The material is presented in a unique way and is often applied to fields such as economics and physics. The workload is fairly light.
As the course is structured, it presents material in a relatively theoretical manner without doing justice to the theory (too much hand-waving) or giving enough concrete/conceptual connections for those who would like a less theoretical but still rigorous course.  The instructor, however, does a very respectable job of integrating various related fields when appropriate, such as physics or economics.
It's a strange system, so try to learn it well and get used to it in the beginning.
Be prepared to spend a significant amount of time on this course
Professor is extremely confusing; textbook is also terrible; it's possible to do well if you work hard, but there is a tremendous level of dissatisfaction in this course and almost everybody I know does not feel like they have a firm grasp on the material.
Math 23a is very difficult, but if you are willing to put in the time and effort, you can gain a wonderful understanding of beginning multivariable calculus and linear algebra, not to mention a pretty large group of friends who have suffered through lots of difficult problem sets and proofs with you and thus have developed bonds with you that will last for a long time.  In other words: If you decide to do it, DO IT, and don't think the understanding will fall in your lap.
The problem sets are time-consuming. It is recommended that you have an interest in mathematics backed by a desire to pursue a concentration in something math-related.
If you are really into pure math, just do the work and take 25. If not, take 21. Taking 23 is some sort of odd purgatory between the two.
This class falls at a strange level to recommend. It was time-consuming, sometimes without being worthwhile, but people with a strong math background would probably find a higher level course more interesting. I regret having not taken Math 21 instead. I did, however, make some great friends in my study group. Shared struggles bond people together.
Paul Bamberg might at times seem like an absolutely horrible amd horrendously obcure and hand-wavy teacher, but by the end of the course you will love him. It all comes together in the end.
I would tell students to take this course if they would like a theoretical approach to Linear Algebra and Real Analysis but do not want to work very hard.  If a student is ok with a lot of work and would like to go more in depth into the topic, I would recommend Math 25.
It is not so much the preparation for the course that is needed, but just a desire to continuously pursue the understanding of concepts that seem (at least to my obviously limited knowledge) to be useless in the real world.
It is the middle of the road between practical and theoretical.  This is an especially daunting aspect on the teaching part, but it is very successful.
This class gives a good overview of a number of topics and provided the challenge I sought when I first arrived, but it proved more challenging than I expected.  It provides a balance between the application-oriented Math 21 series and the more abstract Math 25 series, but I found it to be insufficient in both areas rather than providing a good blend.  I would not recommend this course unless you are capable of handling Math 25 and simply want to reduce your workload.
It's a very nice class if you want to learn the mechanics of mathematical proofs. However, for those who truly want to do theoretical mathematics, I would probably recommend 25a.
It's a lot of work and the material is not always very straight-forward.
Stay on top of the proofs, do the reading before class, and do your best to pay attention in the lectures. They move very quickly.
If you are willing to study for over 10 hours a week on this class and willing to challenge yourself, I would recommend this class. However, this class isn't for everyone. If you aren't up to really abstract thinking, I would recommend sticking with 19 or 21, but if you want a challenge and one not quite as abstract as 25, 23 is your class.
Professor assumes too much of students; Very disorganized; Not structuredInteresting material, just poorly structured.
This can be a fun class, but it is, after all, a very unique and non-standard approach to this section of mathematics, so be sure to be cognizant of that fact when enrolling. Students who are looking for a more standard introduction to the subject (ie a less difficult/rigorous approach) should look elsewhere.
make sure you really like math before signing up for this; otherwise it can ruin your hope of ever becoming a math major.
Although linear algebra is (to most) not the most interesting subject, Bamberg is a pleasure to work with and does his best to make the course interesting and informative.
This is a good course that's combines the abstract proofs with real world applications. It is sometimes messy, but if you put in the work, it's not bad.
I would say... take this class if you want to learn math, but not because of a particularly inspiring or organized professor.  Only take it if you feel like it's the only class you're ready or comfortable taking without boring yourself.  Paul Bamberg is a very sweet man, but he doesn't seem to care about fixing typos.  Also, if you want to read lecture notes that you will not understand because of typos or do problem sets in which the wording makes no sense until Paul Bamberg e-mails you corrections after you have spent two hours trying to figure out what he meant, take this course.
In my opinion, this is a much better course than Math 21 in teaching students everything from Math 21 in a more rigorous way.
Math 23a is a great intro course to see if you are interested in pure math. The material is fairly balanced between analysis and application which is an interesting approach to the subject.
Keep up with the proof logs early, and don't be discouraged if you don't follow the lectures--the textbook and the websites are both great resources.
This class is perfect for people without experience in proof-based math after geometry, but who are interested in understanding the underlying concepts. Solid knowledge of single-variable calculus is essential (though AB is enough if you take the crash course). Paul is hilarious, and his lecture notes are great for staying organized and studying for exams. Not nearly as demanding as 25, but still feels like college math.
Have an interest in proving things, without having proved things before.  Be ready for a theoretical class, but it's okay to not have done that much theory before.  Find some people to work with and you'll make it through.  Collaboration and discussion is key to understanding - this course epitomizes that statement.  I don't know if that's actually a statement, but you can quote me on it.
A non-standard, but interesting approach to lin alg / multi. You'll probably still want to have some exposure to the "standard" approach - either by looking at the notes for 21 or taking 21 later on.
Lecture is not always easy to follow, but it is all recorded and posted online soon after, so you can watch them online.  Or, you can just go back over your notes and hopefully start to understand material as you work on problem sets.  Problem sets are doable- they took between 4 and 8 hours each week- some seemed to be much longer than others.  I sometimes wish I had taken Math 25a instead.  If you want a more rigorous, more abstract version of linear algebra, and can handle a very time-consuming workload- and more challenging midterms- go with 25.  Although 25 is more difficult, it is probably much more rewarding.  Math 23a didn't seem to fit together as well as Math 25a does (I was in 25a until I dropped down).
If you're confident in your knowledge of calculus and you have already seen some linear algebra, then this class may be perfect for you. However, if this will be your first time seeing linear algebra, then you might have some trouble. Personally, I thought the class was structured a little poorly. Some parts are focused a lot more on memorization than understanding.
This class is a challenge because of the variety of topics it assesses, but allows you many ways to collaborate with others or seek out help if needed. When going into this class, be prepared to think of derivatives, etc in a context completely different from that in high school, and be prepared to struggle (but do not struggle alone!). Sections and TF office hours are great places to ask questions about the material and solve problems. Keep in mind that this class lies between the theoretical topics of Math 25 and the application-based topics of Math 21, with a good balance between proof-based problems and number-based ones. Our lecturer, Paul, has backgrounds in the sciences, linguistics, and business, which tends to give his examples a more application-based slant.
Take it with at most one more aggressive course. You cannot glide through this course.
Unless you like proof based mathematics or are willing to devote time to get used to it, don't take it.
This class is definitely difficult. Depending how you are with time management and what else you're taking, you may be stuck doing the psets all the night before (which is manageable as long as you don't value your sleep too much).But the fact that you learn to do proofs is really valuable, and this class also does practical applications.
It's a hard class if you're not used to analysis of mathematics. If you're also not very detail-oriented or are a sloppy test taker, this class will be very hard.
I'm assuming if you're looking into this course, you at least remotely like math. Be aware that this class is part of a series of math classes that is "math for math's sake." While at one point, the class may have been suitable for applied math people, currently there are only certain sections of the class that would actually appeal to that faction.
Fun class with interesting problem sets. Proof-logging is a source of stress, however, and can sometimes distract from learning concepts.
Definitely take this if you want to get and introduction to proofs but you still want examples in the discussion. Also the workload is not as bad as 25 (and obviously 55) seem to have. "Proof parties" are a little strange, but you'll get over it.
This class will be challenging for students who have only taken math up to AP Calc BC, but it is definitely doable. The class will take a significant amount of time outside of class and it is unlike most math classes in high school. There is more than mechanically applying formulas; you learn to think logically and actually proofs.
This course is not easy, but it strikes a good balance. If you are very interested in and comfortable with theoretical math, you should probably take Math 25 or 55. If you want to study mathematical methods without learning how to justify their existence, then you should probably take Math 21. I came into the class wanting to study some theoretical math and analysis but not knowing what I would be getting into. Math 23a served my purposes well, since it's sometimes difficult but still taught at a level that is usually comprehensible.The teaching staff did a good job. Paul is enthusiastic about mathematical concepts and is a funny guy. His knowledge of mathematical history enriches the class. Kate is also a good and funny lecturer (though definitely a weird person). Both Paul and Kate were effective at explaining concepts thoroughly, so that everything would make sense. I was sometimes lost in lecture, but doing some extra work outside of class usually remedied that problem.Math 23a has two types of sections -- (1) proof recitation sections that go over proofs and (2) problem-solving sections that do practice problems based on the topics discussed in lecture. I was in a problem-solving section (my CA was Peter Hickman), and I thought it was very useful and well-organized.
It is a group effort because you present proofs and do p-sets with a group.
If you like math, take it and don't be scared off. If you don't like math, do not take it because it will be hard and arduous and a struggle all the way through.
This course takes a lot of work, but it is worth it. The final exam this year was difficult, but the TA and CAs were very helpful with the material.
Don't be scared off my the first week. It is a general consensus that the first week of this course is the hardest only because you and all your classmates are least accustom to this kind of material.
This is a course which is a very good composite of math 21a and math 25a. It very nicely mixes both calculations and rigorous proof-based math.
The class is a systematic introduction to proof-based maths and will provide you with many linear algebra tools extremely useful for physics and economics, but does not give you a very deep theoretical background. The proofs are interesting, but the pattern of the class is such that you are taught about the proof strategies rather than asked to come up with them yourself (the problems in section/on the problem set then ask you for further applications of these strategies). I learnt a lot about applying linear algebra in this course, but did not feel challenged to think and come up with ingenious solutions myself.
If you're on the fence about whether or not you like math enough to pursue it further, and you're willing to put in the time commitment, this class is truly worthwhile.  Don't give up if the first few weeks/first quiz are hard; it takes some getting used to!
Math23a is a challenge, and requires a lot of time to be understood. Proofs are also difficult. 23a turned out to be a good experience for me, but this class is not for the timid math learner or a math learner who wants strictly application and no theory.
It's tough -- if you really want to understand the material (unless you're a math genius), be prepared to think very hard and spend lots of time.  If not, you can probably get by with memorizing proofs/methods to solve problems, but it definitely will not be as fulfilling as it could be.
Be prepared to put in a lot of work, but expect a high return on knowledge as well.
If you are the type of student who likes a math class where you copy down everything the teacher says and memorize it, then go to section and memorize techniques for doing a few problems and can be guaranteed a good grade if you put the time in, this is a good class for you. Most of your grade will be based on how many mindless hours you are willing to put into memorization and trying to find people to present proofs to you. If you want a class that will challenge you to think, take 25. If you want a class that won't take up as much of your time, take 21. More specifically:If you are deciding between this and 21, I would say take this class if you have any interest in ever doing another higher-level math class or anything that requires proofs (i.e. computer science). Also I would shop both and see which one you like your ca/tf in more because I've heard great and horrible things about 21 depending on the tf.If you are deciding between this and 25, I would say that I have heard 25 is a much better class, but it is a much harder workload. If you really care about math and actually look forward to spending hours on the pset, do 25, but if you want to just breeze through an easier if less interesting class (or are taking other time-consuming classes), take this class.
23 is designed for students whose mathematical ability is intermediate between math 21 and 25, but the attempt to combine the best of both worlds resulted in a course that's neither here nor there. I think most people generally see math as a means to an end or an end in itself. If you belong to the former category(i.e. you need to learn multivariable calculus and linear algebra to enroll in Ec1011), you might as well take 21. If you're truly interested in abstract theory--you want to know why these tools work instead of just using them--then take the plunge and enroll in 25. This course is not a good "in-between"; don't do it for reasons of ego.
I would suggest shying away from this class. It's difficult, mostly because it is poorly taught.
Don't fall behind on your proofs! It will come back to haunt you.
Not enough practice examples. Relies on making a few mistakes and memorization rather than learnign.
This class attempts to bridge between 21 and 25, and is somewhat successful, but still has many drawbacks. As a potential life sciences concentrator and pre-med, I would have preferred this class to include more application than proofs, but the class does deliver both. If you keep up with the problem sets and lectures, you will learn quite a bit and do well on the quizzes and final, but you will likely have to spend lots of time along the way to develop your own big-picture understanding of the concepts presented in class. Problem sets also took around 7 or 8 hours per week, and being required to present proofs can be a bit of a hassle. In summary - the goal of this class is ambitious; providing both application and abstraction in one semester is a tall order, and unfortunately this means the class has inevitable gaps.
Great introduction to proof based math if you have never done it before.
This is a nice course; Bamberg likes to teach, and is accessible. However, I'd have to say that you learn more math in 25, and it's well worth taking it.
If you like doing proofs and are at least mildly interested in concentrating in math, take this course.
If you are interested in math but not so interested or not so sure if you are going to be able to handle difficult proof problems, take Math 23!.
It's a good way to find out of proofs are for you.
Math 23a is a great class to learn some abstract concepts, while also remaining in the practical realm. There are myriad applications spread throughout the course, and some of Bamberg's problems are hilarious. There is also a healthy serving of proofs and higher level math flavor that will serve as a good introduction to abstract math, if you have never done it before. It is the perfect intermediate between Math 21a and Math 25a. If you are looking for something more theoretical, Math 25a is definitely the way to go. When considering Math 23a and Math 21a, keep in mind that these two courses follow very different paths. Math 23a is heavily linear algebra based which is helpful if you are taking courses like Physics 16 or PS 10, while Math 21a avoids linear algebra until the spring. Math 23a approaches everything from a linear algebra and real analysis angle.
it requires a fair amount of work but it is rewarding and worth it; if you can place into 25 or 55, they are worth shopping before you decide on 23 though
It's got a system that you have to mold to, but it's good that you get that many chances to prove yourself and synthesize the material. Paul is a much talked about figure - he comes across very serious in lecture, but you will realize if you go meet with him that he's a very nice person who genuinely cares about teaching and watching you succeed. Make sure you do your research before taking this class though: 21 is not "lesser," it is a class that may teach you better how to solve your physics and economics problems than 23 will. I don't feel too qualified to make a statement about the role of this class in one's science or math education, but 23 does give you more information about where multivariable calculus and linear algebra come from. I personally found that interesting, and 23a has been an experience that has shown me a glimpse of what real math is like and how it can be fun. Just take some applied math courses later.
Math 23a is a great course, and will put you in a great spot to take courses in all types of fields (economics, cs, physics). Don't worry if you've never done higher-level math - I only completed through AB calc in high school, and, with some commitment to learning the BC material, have found that no concept has been un-graspable. They provide a lot of ways to get points - get on presenting and listening early.
Good class. But Paul is not for everyone. Definitely use shopping period wisely.
The class is taught in Paul Bamberg's distinct style, which some don't like. However, if you like or don't mind the style of teaching, 23 is a fun class that combines application and theory well.
It is challenging and a fair amount of studying and learning is done outside of the lectures and sections.
You get as much out of this class as you put in. If you take the time to understand the concepts and problems, you will understand them better. A criticism is that the class as a whole is not linearly structured, which can be frustrating. It means that you may understand units modularly but not see the overall picture for how they relate to each other.
Although the problem sets get easier, the concepts get harder to balance it out. If this is the right level class for you there's always something to occupy yourself with for this class.
If you don't sincerely like math, take 21. If you sincerely like math, take 25. This class is the awkward middle ground.
only take this course if you're seriously interested in pursuing proof based mathematics. if you've never done proof based math and don't know what it is, be careful. the course doesnt start getting bad until after the add drop deadline
Math 23 is a very well structured, well taught, and unique class. The CA's are all on their toes and Paul is a really fun lecturer. Abstract concepts are mixed in with more concrete ones very effectively-- it generates interest not in the applications of linear algebra/real analysis but also the mathematics themselves. The course is obviously way easier than 25/55 but the problem sets are time-consuming, especially if you do them on your own. But the proof parties etc. make it easier to find people to work on problem sets with; I made a lot of friends in this class!
Although this class claims that it fosters abstract mathematical thinking, it really became a burden for me and many of my classmates, and we ended up memorizing much of the material rather than having Paul and the CAs fully explaining it to us.  The grading for this class was lax for the most part, but the final exam and homework are both difficult.
If you enjoy math, this course will be pleasant and informative. It's the best math class I've taken, but it also showed me I didn't enjoy math.
If you haven't taken any linear algebra, but still want a more formal treatment of the subject matter, take this course. You can try taking 25a if you are really into abstract math, but be warned, many people try that each year (I included) and realize that the department recommendations are there for a reason, and it is very likely you will end up dropping to 23 after the first midterm. On the other hand, there is no penalty for doing so, so it's worth giving it a shot.Also, I would recommend watching the videos rather than attending the lectures, so that you can pace yourself and not get lost.
If you have ANY RESERVATIONS about whether you want to take 21 or 25, just go for it and change before the 5 week deadline. After that you're locked into the class for the entire year because of the way it's structured. So MAKE SURE you really, really want to be in this class.
Math 23a tries really hard to balance applied and theoretical mathematics.  The course does a decent job, but don't expect too much.  The lectures are informative and the assignments are not bad when you work in groups. The quizzes are pretty predictable and it's a good course overall.  I would definitely recommend it to people who are looking for more of a challenge than plug-and-chug multivariable calculus but may not have the background for math 25.
Take it and embrace the challenge!
Math 23a fulfills its promise: it offers a solid, rigorous treatment of linear algebra and real analysis.
If you're interested in proofs and abstraction, you should take Math 25. If you're interested in applying math, take Math 21a or ApMath 21a. If you can't decide, take this course.
Take this course if you are at the math 21 level but would like to get a glimpse at more theoretical mathematics and are willing to put in the time.
Great class if you are on the fence between going into pure math or some applied math.  It will expose you to both types of math.  I ended up not enjoying the proof component of the course but I'm glad that I figured this out.
I switched into this class after taking five weeks of Math 25 (I didn't do as well as I wanted to on the midterm). I wish I hadn't switched. Math 25 is a lot of work, but if you've had ANY experience with higher level math you're going to find Math 23 very, very unrewarding.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on this class.  As long as you are willing to do this, it is extremely rewarding to get to the final and realize how much you really know.  Also, Paul is especially generous with the grading scheme so even if you're struggling you don't have to worry too much about your final grade.
This class is only meant for math and physics concentration. If you are going to be one of those, and have a background/interest in proofs, go ahead in take the class. However, I was not going to concentrate in either of those, and I ended up hating the class. It is very unstructured, very uncoordinated, and Paul's lecture style is so fast that only 3 people can understand it. In addition, the sections are not as helpful as they should be. Thus, if you are not a math person, this course might make your semester miserable. Don't take it unless you have a serious interest in the issue.
Don't take this course unless you thoroughly enjoy math. If you haven't had much math experience, you will be in for a ride with this class.
Choosing 21 v. 23 : If you genuinely want to challenge yourself, learn theoretical math and learn how to do proofs as a way of thinking - then take this class over 21a. It will be difficult, you will have to put a lot of time into it, you will struggle, but in the end you will feel so proud of how much you have learnt and understand and will be amazed at how far you've come. And, if you have a genuine desire to learn more theoretical math, you will have accomplished your goal. On the other hand, if you are taking this class to sound smart, or to impress your friends - don't bother. Pick 21 v. 23 based on what you actually want to learn and get out of your math class.Also, for those deciding, don't be afraid of this class based on lectures and the psets. The lectures often seem over your head, but when you go back over the material yourself, and realize where the random steps that Bamberg goes through comes from, it is really do-able. Also, while psets are hard you have a great network of other students, CAs, and the TF Kate to help you out - they are doable, and they are a great way to learn and understand the material. Finally, the quizzes are definitely much more straightforward than the psets, so they are very manageable even though you are doing them alone.
Math 23 is absolutely accessible to people who have had BC calc, and slightly easier for people who have had math beyond that (even random things like discrete math).  The lecture style is not always cohesive or coherent, and homework problems can be difficult, giving you a wealth of opportunity to bond with your classmates.  You have a mix of minor proof (memorized and derived) and problems based on real-world applications.  Paul is more applied than theoretical, so the emphasis will be more "math is useful" than "math is beautiful".
Take the time to go over the lecture outlines after class and make sure you understand them. You can finish all the psets and do all the quizzes without understanding the material, but you can't pass the final without understanding what you're doing. It makes everything so much easier when you get it.
Unless you want to be a math concentrator or really love theoretical/proof-based math that might be seemingly random at times, I would not suggest taking this class.
This course never really introduces you to the basics of linear algebra/multivariable calculus. It actually just throws you into problem sets and proofs. It takes a lot more effort if you haven't been exposed to the basic concepts of linear algebra/multivariable, and don't take this class if what you like about math are computations.
The good thing about this class is that if you work hard, you get points. Lectures were not fun for me, but psets were really good, and the material (textbook, notes) were great. Also, there are a lot of people to help if you fall into trouble.
Assignments are hard but with collaboration you will be able to get through all of them without a hitch.  Quizzes are easy but may take more than 90 minutes.  The final exam is a rush - make sure you practice the calculations.  An interesting class and MUCH, MUCH better than 21a.  If you don't have proof or multivariable background, don't worry, you can still do well if you work at understanding the material.  It will require practice but you don't need to understand everything in intimate detail.
So this is the way I look at Math23. It is a nice course to have under your belt, but you really have to be willing to deal with some of the baggages that comes with this course. for example, the psets were a lot harder than the actual quizzes, but the final is then also fairly difficult. the biggest problem is that the math you learn in 23 might not be entirely compatible with the rest of the "math world" because of the wordings, the theories, etc. however, it is very, very structure and you can do well if you put in the effort.
Problem sets are interesting, and the class fosters a social environment. I made a lot of good friends in this class, working on psets and presenting proofs. Paul thinks about math in a very unique way, and some people like that and some don't. I found memorizing proofs a bit boring and silly.
necessary evil. very badly taught. taught in a rote memory way.
Don't be intimidated by the lectures. Almost no one really understands what Paul is talking about 100% of the time. Reading the lecture outline before class helps, but ultimately you're just going to have to read it over and over again, ask questions in section, and do the whole problem set before you understand what you're doing. But don't let that scare you-- it's really easy to get a good grade in this class, so there's not too much pressure. GO TO OFFICE HOURS-- usually many people work on the pset together during this time. Don't wait until the last week to start presenting proofs. Get on top of it early on-- then you'll be the kid with 26/22 proof points instead of only 16/22. And finally, the final is not that hard if you study. Don't let the tf's scare you with the practice final -- it's usually 300% harder than the actual thing. Study your proofs and lecture notes, and you'll be fine.
I would not recommend this class.  Math 23 is supposed to be halfway between 25 and 21, and to provide a good proof-based class that will build up a foundation for higher level mathematics course, but I never found that to be true.  I spent numerous hours working on problem sets that do not matter, either in terms of the course's final grade or learning the material.  Lectures are close to impossible to follow, for the method in which Bamberg presents materials is unique to Bamberg, and previous mathematical knowledge will not help you.  As a student who has taken a fair amount of linear algebra and multivariable calculus before this class, I expected this class to confirm with what I already knew; however, Bamberg scoffs off other methods of doing math, forcing students to do things his way.  This is best shown through the proofs, where students are required to memorize 22 proofs that Bamberg considers important to linear algebra.  When I attempted to present a proof to him with a slightly different manner than the one he presented, he agreed that it was correct, but because it was not "elegant" enough, he did not accept it as a proof.Finally, Bamberg does not care about the students, and he is close to impossible to work with.  True, he is easily accessible through office hours, but every time that I went, Bamberg used his mathematical knowledge to deride the students.  He will not assist you, and he is unwilling to help you understand the material in any other way than his.For students looking a challenging math class, take 25.  For those looking to have an easy class that will provide a good foundation for future courses, take 21.  For those who want to spend the entire semester confused, not understanding the material, take 23.
This is a good class if you think you might be interested in theoretical math but still enjoy seeing the applications of it.  Although the problem sets are sometimes difficult and time consuming, you definitely get out of the class feeling like you have an understanding of rigorous proof and linear algebra.  If you love math and think it is "cool" but don't want to commit the time to Math 25, take this course!
It is a good introduction to abstract math for someone who has only taken math courses focused on computation.
You will work hard, but you will love it.
You should take this class if you enjoy math and you want something more than the standard multivariable calculus that's taught in Math 21a but don't have the background to take 25a. This course is way different that AP Calculus BC. The beginning is pretty theoretical (real analysis), and the first pset will take you for quite a ride if you've never done proofs before. I found that the psets took on average 4-7 hours to complete, and most people have to work with others to finish the psets (this is expected). The proof party system is also unique, and while proof parties can be fun, I thought that some of the proofs we memorized were quite trivial. Some of the proofs toward the end were also hard to understand, and Bamberg's notation can be confusing. Bamberg's lectures are always focused on outline-filling, so I found it hard to take notes and absorb the information at the same time and I ended up watching most of the lecture videos online instead of going to class (the number of people who actual attend lecture dwindles significantly by the end of the semester)
It's debatable whether some hypothetical math class could one day effectively combine elements of plug-and-chug multivariable calculus and linear algebra with rigorous analysis and proofs; it is fairly clear, however, that Math 23 does not. Kids, be bold and resolute: choose the numerical class (Math 21) or the rigorous "real math" class (Math 25), or you will pay a steep price (Math 23) for your indecision.There are so many problems. The book is dense, monolithic, and unsuited to the class. The notion that students get something out of memorizing arbitrary presentations of proofs is false. The grading scheme is often reminiscent of middle school, with continual opportunities to earn fractional points of extra credit by wasting your time in various ways. As one math peer adviser said at a concentration fair: "Honestly, I've never heard anyone say anything good about Math 23."One pro to offset the cons: by skipping lecture and section, you can come close to breaking even time-wise (i.e. doing all the work in the same amount of time that would normally be spent in class).Also, this class will spam your inbox like nothing else.
Proof-based mathematics is going to be a challenge at first, especially if you've never done anything of the sort before (geometry doesn't count!) But it's definitely manageable if you find other students to collaborate with on P-sets, and ask your CA lots of questions on whatever is confusing. By the end of the semester you'll have learned a lot, so it's a very rewarding experience.
Only do it if you really love mathematics, especially proofs and more complex application of multiple ideas. As well as a fairly large time investment, the course demands extremely good recall, complex understanding of abstract concepts, and the ability to fluently synthesize. Which is to say, do not try to live p-set to p-set or exam to exam, because you will regret it acutely at the end of the semester.
It seems that people either love or hate this course. I personally really enjoyed it. Paul is so quirky and interesting! I did not have any linear algebra knowledge before this class.
This class is great if you are not interested in just plain multivariate and linear algebra (21) and instead want to get a proof-based understanding of the subject. Paul's lectures are really entertaining; his notes are very instructive. You do learn 22 proofs throughout the course, and though this may seem daunting at first, it goes by a lot more smoothly than you would think. The first problem set is tough, but it does get easier, so don't let that get to you!
It is a very fun class, but there is still a lot of work. Don't be too overwhelmed the first couple of weeks because it gets easier. Also, the quizzes are much more manageable than the homework.
THIS WAS MY FAVORITE CLASS FRESHMAN YEAR! The proof parties are great, Paul is great, the class was great... I think it is a really interesting class and an excellent way to get potential Math concentrators excited about the subject!
Interesting, wide-ranging, always unclear. Bamberg is awesome.
Take this class if you are overly excited about math. I love it, but this course just sucks the life out of you unnecessarily. You'll be forced to unlearn a lot of math and then relearn, especially if you are an international. The material seems very disjointed. I did not particularly enjoy the course. BUT, I made a lot of good friends while doing the p sets!
This class is useful for people who want an introduction to writing proofs or who really enjoy more theoretical math, but for someone who is into concrete math, this may not be for you. It requires a lot of work to keep up with the material and is not the concrete linear algebra course that I was expecting.
This course is an amazing introductory course in linear algebra, and Paul makes it all the more worthwhile.
Don't procrastinate on the proof parties. Don't be intimidated by the first few problem sets/lecture material; it takes a while to get acclimated to the flow of the course, but once you do, it becomes much easier and you become more efficient.
If you like math, and you like integrating different types of math, this course may be for you.  Paul's teaching style doesn't resonate with everyone, but if it works for you (shop it!) this class can be good.  It really helps you build community though proof parties (don't procrastinate kids) and psets (doing them alone=death).  It requires a good amount of work ~10hrs per pset, for those humans among us~ but if you are interested in math it is totally worth it.  Paul sings in class- literally every other day I left lecture thinking "how is this real life?".  Be prepared to work- go to section, go to office hours, wrestle with the psets.  But take this class. Fo real.
I was completely surprised by this class. I took BC Calculus and flew through it with a 5. I also took Multi-Variable and Differential Equations and breezed through these classes. That being said, this class was the hardest math class I've ever taken. It's not math like you've studied in the past. You'll have to prove formulas and theory's instead of just memorizing formula's and manipulating them. I would have enjoyed this class greatly, but it moved far too quickly. If you have zero knowledge of proofs like I did, don't take this class, it is not a good introductory course. All of this being said, Paul is a wonderful lecturer. If you can keep up with the math, you'll also find his lectures extremely entertaining and funny!
Make sure you know what you're getting yourself into.  The class is aimed at math-oriented people willing to work hard.  At times, it might be a bit overwhelming (but in general, it's manageable).
I took Math 23 as a sophomore and probably appreciated Pauls humour more than the average freshman. Paul is awesome. Never will you have a professor who is as passionate and as instructive as he is.  Exams and homework are challenging, but rewarding and concise. I highly recommend this class over Math 21.
At the start of the semester you are give a large block of paper. The individual sheets of paper are filled with semi-complete notes: your lecture outlines. Every week, you will go into lecture with the goal of filling in all the gaps and turning your "outlines" into fully fledged lecture notes. The process can become repetitive, and you can quite quickly forget to read anything on the outline that is not written in your own hand. My advice: you will likely struggle with this course if you have never written a proof before but it is worth pushing through because once you've "memorised" a proof, then you "know" it. There will be weeks where you feel like you don't understand why Bamberg is teaching in certain ways but as long as you are to reproduce the steps he goes through understanding will come.
The material and expectations of this course are very clear, which makes a great math class for any freshman worried about college level math. The material can be difficult but the support is always there: many opportunities for extra credit, the midterms are much easier than the psets, the CA's hold office hrs in the quincy dhall the night before psets are due and the textbook and lecture outlines complement each other very well. Paul's lecturing is not always the most dynamic though his jokes are funny. However, he gets the material across in a way that is clear and organized. I would definitely recommend this course to anyone who wants to take higher level math but doesn't want to kill themselves in 25.
I feel that this class was completely incompatible with my learning style, with my interests, and with my sense of what math is and can be. Time is spent on strange subjects (e.g., the construction of "affine faculty senates"-- Paul is very excited about this elaborate method of showing a non-numerical vector space, but it is rather extensively overdone) while other subjects fundamental to linear algebra are glossed over or ignored (e.g., the Jordan canonical form of a matrix). The book is next to useless (although it includes several exciting anecdotes about Hubbard's early life history), and the class as a whole does not adequately prepare students (or, at the very least, students with my style of thinking) either for application or for advanced theoretical work. I thought I would be able to teach myself from the book, thereby covering up any problems I had initially with Paul's explanations (he is fond of asserting some things as "trivial" which are rather nontrivial to people without five years of experience in the class), but I was wrong.The proofs you must memorize are an extreme hinderance. They do not assist in understanding the material, and are a real stressor. The syllabus is bizarrely and uniquely complicated. Several clarifying questions have been necessary throughout the semester, and my TF has been occasionally stumped by my syllabus-related questions. All of this being said, some people do enjoy this course. Be very sure you are one of these people before committing. Do not wait too long to "drop down" to 21 or to go "up" to 25. Do not take this as a challenge. It will distract you from more pertinent pursuits in other courses, and is a challenge in a completely different way than is 25. I feel bad writing this, because Paul's a cool guy, but I feel the warning is necessary.
It would be most prudent to have some linear algebra knowledge before taking this course. Otherwise, this course may very well become a living, breathing, all-consuming nightmare. For me, with only BC Calc in junior year to guide the way, lectures overall were rather confusing (but accessible online to watch over and over again), assignments were VERY time-intensive, and topics felt somewhat randomly put together without lots of cohesion. Perhaps 23a is doable with only BC Calc as a background, but if this is the case for you, I'd strongly recommend reviewing and familiarizing yourself with the material before coming to lecture as well as staying on top of all assignments. Whatever the background, by taking this course, you'd get the mixture of theory/proofs with practical applications, and you'd get a heck of a lot of it. Such an experience can go either way.
Start the p-sets earlier than the night before. Same goes for studying for quizzes. Both take longer than you might anticipate. Also, the practice quizzes are a hugely helpful resource; make use of them.
Great! The first outline's material may seem like a jumble of eclectic topics, but the course is actually well structured, so stick through and be rewarded. The support system is good. It is a perfect companion to courses like Physics 15/16 and PS10, which require use of eigenvectors, matrices, etc.
If you're not interested in mathematical theory or proving things, DON'T take this class, just take 21a instead and you'll have a much better time. However, if you're at all interested in math theory or proving things, this is a very good first class on that that will also integrate multivariable concepts.
I have mixed feelings about this course. On one hand, I love Paul and his lectures. On the other hand, Paul forgets that not everyone is as familiar with the material as he is, so he can make some non-trivial jumps in the material that you might have to think through for a while to understand. This course took a lot of work and was rather confusing at times. However, if you are just worried about your grade, the course is graded fairly. Go to a good section. It helps a ton. Go Garby!
Beware. Bamberg is interesting and quirky, but confusing as hell. Be ready to put in a lot of work to understand the material and stuff that you won't understand by just going to the lectures and sections (the quality of which varies greatly).
Math 23 lies in the awkward region between math 21 and math 25, in my opinion. It is kind of concrete like math 21 but not completely, and it is kind of abstract like math 25 but not completely. Thus, the difficulty level is somewhere in between as well. In math 21 I think there is a lot of plug and chug math, and in math 25, there is a lot of abstract and tough conceptual things. math 23 is the in-between.
This class is difficult. If you don't like math for math's sake, you may want to rethink taking it.
This class will not teach you as many applicable things as Math 21 would. At the same time, it won't teach you as rigorous an approach to generalized mathematics as Math 25 will. It offers some interesting conclusions and theorems, but little more.
On one hand, I found the course good for my level of experience; it IS possible to do well without any background beyond high school calculus, even alongside people who have taken linear algebra and analysis courses already. Granted, it was more challenging for me as a result, but overall I am very satisfied with my grades and progress. On the other hand, if this is the case for you and you consider yourself on the lower end experience-wise, make sure you are willing to spend a significant amount of time, especially earlier in the semester. The first problem set very difficult specifically for the purpose of weeding out people who wouldn't be happy in a proof-based class. Lectures are not necessarily the most illuminating and the sequence of topics is odd, so if you've never seen the material before, it's really about your own effort.
Working with the same people each week for 12 hours on problem sets will bring all the members in the study group closer together.
This class provides a delicate balance between mathematical rigor and cookie-cutter mathematics taught in lower level courses.  The format is often frustrating, but the examples usually do an effective job of the conveying a sufficient understanding of the information to solve problems.
This is an excellent course in beginning linear algebra and analysis.  Learning linear algebra and multivariable calculus at the same time helps you understand both subjects much better than if you took both classes seperately.
placement tests aren't relevant for international students, and people with strong math backgrounds should take this course even if they get placed in a lower level coursepaul is fun, and yeah he wants to be called thatthe pace is pretty goodgoes through a lot of math very quickly, especially some occult concepts that are made manageable by using matrices, which are so beautiful and simple to understandvideotaped lectures were great, makes for better time managementpaul is a pretty good singer, and his joke on the right hand rule totally blew my mind in terms of smart humorif you can do the p-sets, you'll be fineif not, in the words of the great Lobachevsky, Plagiarize! but make sure you call it research.
A very difficult class which covers a lot of material. However, it is rewarding if you spend the time to understand everything and do all the work.
Although it doesn't say it anywhere in the syllabus, this course is a good introduction to a large number of topics in mathematics. If you want to experience some mathematical breadth, then this class might be fore you. But if you want to really know how to do linear algebra, take 25a. Or if you want to learn multi calc, take 21a.
Paul is an outstanding teacher and while the course is challenging, he gives you everything you need to succeed as long as you put in the time and effort.
Do the work in groups. That's how the class is meant to work and you will get more out of it.
If you put in the work, you can get a lot out of this class.  It can be a struggle at times to grasp the concepts initially, but with the proper effort, the material eventually all comes together.
This course is a time-commitment (~10 hrs/wk), but the concepts are very academically rewarding; it also offers a social experience like no other!
This class is a good intermediate between math 21 and 25, however it feels quite spoon-fed at times.  If you really love math for the problem solving and proof-driven work, I would recommend looking into math 25, as this class doesn't force you to foster those skills.  That being said, if you want an introduction to rigorous math without the heavy workload, this class is perfect.  The lectures are engaging and well-taught, and the class has an upbeat, excited feel, instead of dragging like some other math classes I've heard about.I think learning proofs is a good idea, but presenting proofs can be a pain, especially because your grade depends on actively finding people to present to you.  If you don't work in study groups already or are introverted when it comes to learning math, this can be challenging.  The class definitely doesn't require any extra background above high school calculus 2 and hard work will probably be sufficient to earn anyone at least a B+.
Take it if you want an introduction to more abstract aspects of math. Maybe the things we learned will be useful for applications in the future, but that's not immediately apparent. The applications we did learn were interesting though, and it can be a great class if you put in the time to really understand the material. Doing psets with friends was also an experience that I won't forget.
After doing well in BC Calculus my senior year, I was torn about whether to take 21 or 23. 23 was definitely the right choice for me. It's math for people who like math, but it won't take over your life. You'll meet a lot of wonderful people and you get to be quite close with your classmates. This class is really unique and a lot of fun to be in!
Math 23a is probably very different from your high school math class. For me, this was the first time in my life where math didn't make sense after looking at it for three seconds. At the same time, the way Paul teaches--by combining topics usually taught in completely separate classes like topology or probability--connects mathematical dots in a way that shifted the way I fundamentally view mathematics. No joke, there have been moments when everything clicks, and I think to myself, "Math is beautiful." Try thinking that while learning BC Calculus.In terms of Paul's teaching style, it's a very hit-or-miss situation. I have friends who love his quirky sense of humor and his idiosyncratic lecturing style. Others consider his teaching methods obtuse and difficult to follow when they themselves have taken similar courses before. Either way, you cannot fault Paul's enthusiasm. He may not make eye contact or seem to remember your name, but he really cares about teaching the subject to others. If you go to office hours or email him, you really feel his commitment to the subject.The psets are difficult. Find friends! Learn your proofs early on in the semester because cramming them the night before the exam is a pain. Probably due to the proof parties and the type of people Math 23 attracts (interested in math but not wildly fanatical), Math 23 is a very social class. If you find yourself struggling, don't be too proud to ask for help. There are a lot of people, including your CA, who want to see you succeed. If you're still trying to decide, go for the first lecture and see if you like Paul's teaching style. Remember that the first pset is one of the hardest of the years. It does get easier from there! Also, check out the Crimson article about Math 23. In my opinion, it really captures the spirit of the class. http://www.thecrimson.com/article/2010/10/29/paul-math-one-student/
If you're interested in theoretical math, DON'T TAKE THIS COURSE. Take 25 instead. I made the mistake of taking 23, and it made me strongly dislike math. For people who like theory, 23 butchers the theory and places too much emphasis on calculations.
It is an engaging introduction to proofs in higher math.
This class is fun, and fairly easy to do well in. It was, in my opinion, less theoretical than it is marketed, because tests tend to be only partially conceptual, and sometimes plug-and-chug. I was on the border between 23a and 25a, and I think that while 25a would have been more interesting, 23a was a better choice for me as someone who is looking at a concentration that only needs applied math.
I was drawn to the class because of a self-proclaimed mathematical curiosity that I quickly found really only to be interested in the more spatially manifest parts of math. The deluge of symbols and implications and summations were difficult to puzzle through and only left me mildly satisfied. The nature of mathematical elegance, in its coarse and bumbling charactery, eludes me. Analysis, in particular, seems rather like a nasty lawyer who WILL eventually find a loophole to exploit. Accordingly, I don't feel like this is the sort of course that will so much reward the mathematically creative as the doggedly analytical (or perhaps the overachieving future investment banker). None of my dissatisfaction, of course, is the course's fault: I expected an easy and natural extension of the cartesian plane into n-variables; I learned, however, that math was never really about easy visualisation, and that coordinate planes are merely a quaint manifestation of the real numbers. The work is manageable (two to three hours five days a week, or any similar arrangement); a set of twenty-ishproofs that is relatively easy to memorise but that must still, unfortunately, be delivered to a qualified listeners on one's own time adds to this work; the course is geared towards mathematicians/economists/physicists. I considered myself to be an enthusiastic mathematician coming into the course, and ultimately, my dissatisfaction with the class had more to do with the subject material than its delivery.
It's hard but rewarding. Don't fall behind.
If you like math for the sake of math or theoretical math, this course is probably great. If you want to do use your math skills in real world situations, there are probably easier and more informative classes you can take. I would not recommend taking this class along side with other difficult courses, it is doable, but you probably won't sleep much.
I would tell them that it greatly increased my understanding for, and appreciation of, the subject, that it teaches mathematics with a largely theoretical grounding, which is both pleasant and interesting, and that it is well-taught and has an engaging instructor.
The style of the class, and the outlines are ineffective. The psets are not worth doing, and the textbook is difficult to understand sometimes.
Good class, but likely to be challenging, even those with an extensive math background.
Be sure that you enjoy mathematical proofs --- understanding the why (rigorously). Don't freak out if the material seem a bit too hard, use the resources and give it a serious try and it may be very rewarding.
You should be prepared to spend some time digesting all the material if you have not had experience with proofs and such before.
Make sure you completely understand the lecture notes before doing the problem sets. Prepare to do a lot of work outside of class in terms of reviewing the lecture notes, memorizing proofs, and presenting proofs.
Beware: You will have to memorize proofs. If you don't LOVE pure math, this is not the course for you. Take 21.
I came into Math 23a having taken a senior seminar in linear algebra, which was basically a joke.  That said, Math 23a was not significantly harder than that course but was still enjoyable.  Some of the problem sets are tedious with all the numbers you need to compute, but I think the course gives a decent mix between proof and computation problems.  Take this course if you haven't taken proof based math and want a taste(as this course is intended to do that), or if you're a bit lazy. If you really want an enjoyable time with hardcore proofs, 25 is the way to go.  Also, your grade really doesn't reflect your understanding of the material that much.
Paul is certainly a character, but if you can get past his little quirks and bizarre style of lecturing, you can learn a lot from this class. He works really hard to make sure all of his students succeed, so that it truly becomes a matter of knowledge, and the grade doesn't matter as much. Definitely the more conceptual, higher-thinking option to 21, without the hours and hours of time needed for 25 or 55.
This class is supposed to bridge the more calculation-based Math 21 and proof-based Math 25 but is really just an awkward in-between class.
Be prepared to work hard. Do not procrastinate on the work.
This class is excellent for anyone who wants to know what "higher math" is about (namely, proofs) without an extremely difficult course. The course is not easy, but it is accessible to anyone with a high-school level calculus background. The problem sets are hard, but the assessments are easy, which is a feature of the course I enjoyed - you learn the material well, but the midterms aren't too stressful. Bamberg is an enthusiastic lecturer, if at times hard to follow.
The class is interesting and not too difficult.
This is the right course for you if you have a strong interest in math and would like a class that touches on theory while focusing on solving problems. This course goes beyond the standard multivariable calculus and linear algebra that you may have taken in high school and should be sufficiently challenging even if you have taken a standard class in one or both of these subjects. (That said, if you have experience with rigorous mathematical proofs and are willing to devote lots of time to math, 25a might be a better option.) Go to office hours, be diligent about understanding the lecture notes and problem sets, and attend many proof parties, and you will get a lot out of this course.
Don't be too scared by the first p-set; they get easier.
Memorizing proofs is a significant component of this course - make sure that you understand that. This class is also more theoretical than applied, so if you know you don't like theory, take 21. That being said, the way that 23 approaches the material is very logical: calculus and mutivariable combine in surprisingly intuitive ways.  You will make a lot of friends in this course by working on problem sets and presenting proofs. And this class uses non-standard notation.
By the time you are done with this course, you will truly sound like a professional mathematician.
Math 23 fills the niche between the basic linear and multivariable calculus taught in Math 21 and the theory-based approach of Math 25. If you've taken basic linear algebra and multivariable calculus but are not prepared for or willing to invest the time or interest in mathematical theory, this is the class for you. Know, however, that it has a very particular organization and that once you the sequence has begun, it is challenging to exit it into another level of math or to enter it from another level. Sometimes the choice of topic feels completely random and sometimes Professor Bamberg toots his own horn (ie brags about his own class and teaching philosophy) far too often. Also, memorizing proofs is a pain. But if you belong in the category I mentioned above, you will learn something from the class. Just know you might not enjoy its organization.
Paul is quite interesting...sometimes his lectures may not fully explain the concepts of the class, but the sections usually cover it. The final is challenging, but there are many opportunities to get points along the way, so it balances out. Your grade is well-earned.
if you are looking to learn how to do higher-level math and proofs and such (and actually enjoy all that stuff), take it. if you just want to learn how to do multivariable calculus and don't care to prove theorems or do really abstract math, take 21a instead. if you have no experience with proofs, the first week or so is going to be very very tough, but at least you'll make friends to get help from.
This class is not an easy course and you must be genuinely interested in math.  However, it is highly interesting and rewarding.  It is not impossible to get an A, and Bamberg wants you to succeed; but you must put a lot of work in in order to receive one.
the proof-based format is very interesting. the combination of lecture and section is also much more conducive to learning than the all-section format of math 21.
It's worth it.
This is a great course especially if you have never taken Linear Algebra before.
Math 23 is a great introductory class for students who want to concentrate in either mathematics or a social science; it won't teach you that much that will be useful for physics, biology, or economics. Don't be intimidated by the first few lectures--reviewing notes, watching the lecture videos, and learning proofs early will make Math 23 much more enjoyable.
Math 23 is not easy...but it won't kill you either.  It requires a substantial time commitment and going it alone is not suggested.  The social aspect of the course is both a lifeline and one of its best aspects.  Bamberg is quite the character and the course is very rewarding after you have completed it.  If you are going to take Math 21, I would give this a shot.
Consider how much you like math, and how much you enjoy abstract concepts. This class was very abstract, and there is a lot of memorizing (i.e. of proofs), even if you understand the concepts. The teaching style is a little difficult to adjust to, and you have to go back to the lecture notes because Professor Bamberg goes through the lectures very quickly. Be prepared to also spend a lot of time on the problem sets, especially the first couple.
You'll hear many people complain about this course, but this course is seriously worth taking.  To do multivariable and linear algebra simultaneously helps give a perspective on both that is invaluable.  The course's grading system is somewhat awkward, but Paul really takes care of his students, and the class is a great way to get mathematical rigor without sacrificing your life.
This class can be challenging. If you approach it in the right way- create study groups, go to office hours, stay on top of proofs, start your homework early... you'll do fine. Otherwise, you're going to feel like you're drowning. You have to be prepared for lecture to sometimes completely fly over your head and to go home and watch the video, read through the outline and figure it out. If you don't enjoy math, there's probably no point taking this course.
Math 23 does what it's meant to: linear algebra/multivariable with some theory/abstractness but still covering necessary "practical" stuff; hard but not too hard (for people with no background in proofs/multivar/linear algebra). It's not organized perfectly (order in which stuff is taught is at times downright bizarre) and has an interesting system, but it works--and plus, you'll get to hear Paul's jokes. :)
This course is one of the best decisions that I have made. Bamburg has not only an excellent way of teaching, but an excellent approach to homework and tests that make you WANT to learn the material. It is non-competitive, and offers one of the best communities that there is to be found as a freshman.
Linear algebra and/or multivariable calc experience will be helpful. This is real math. 21a is arithmetic. This course is hard but the grading is pretty forgiving.
I think that this course is definitely a step between Math 21 and Math 25, although I would say that in order to do well in the course, you must not only understand the concepts in depth, but know how to apply them. I think that the topics may seem a little disjoint at times during lecture, but I think the best way to approach the course is to just stay on top of all the work and not fall behind with proofs or reviewing the outlines.
This was my favorite class this semester.  It is a good mix of abstract math and applications.  It has a focus on preparing you for courses in math, economics, and physics.  The grading system is very good and is designed to give you a good grade.  The problem sets get much easier as the term progresses and the quizzes are very easy.
a very weird but effective course... don't let the weirdness of it scare you away in the first week. the class is structured in a way that really makes learning the very difficult material quite easy.
Take this course if you are willing to be overwhelmed at the beginning.  It does not really teach you how to do proofs, it just dives right in and if you are able to survive the first couple of outlines, you get used to it.  If you don't need to take a proof-based course, and are not interested in staying up until 3:30 in the morning the night before problem sets are due every week, take 21a.  If probably would teach applications better.  That said, it is a satisfying feeling at the end of the course, because you are able to look back at the earlier material and understand it in new ways (if you study)
Paul is very nice. He wants to give you an A. You will probably do well if you work hard.Paul also sings. In lecture. It's awesome.
Math 23a is truly a great class. Paul provides you with both a theoretical and practical background for linear algebra and real analysis, which ultimately helps you build necessary skills while finding out why math works the way it does.
Math 23a is a love it or hate it course.
This class is difficult if you don't have a strong background in math. Work hard from the beginning. DONT WAIT TIL THE FINAL. Do your proofs regularly, practice them so you don't end up learning them all before the final. Review your psets. It's a lot of material and it sucks to have to relearn it all during finals week.
You would be better off choosing either Math 21 or Math 25.
There are a LOT of PROOFS to be done!
This class is a good introduction to linear algebra and some real analysis.  For those who are interested in math but don't want to take too intense of a course, this is a good balance.
As compared with 21a, I'd say this course removes much of the gruntwork and replaces it with theory and genuinely interesting topics that unify linear algebra and calculus in a profound and cool manner. Proofs are interesting, but actually proving theorems oneself is a very tangential part of the course, and people interested in so doing maybe should look at 25a, although that seems to be much more difficult and time-consuming.
It is not hard to do really well if you look at the practice quizzes and memorize the proofs. You have to be willing to put some time into the problem sets, especially if you want to work alone, but it is not an inordinate amount of time.
the course is enjoyable as long as you enjoy the lectures
BETTER THAN 23 or 1a/b!!!
Only take it if you like math, or you want to challenge yourself.
My background was Calculus BC.  I would recommend some experience with proofs (which I had none), but (as was the case for me) it is not necessary.
if you like math, take this course.
Difficult, fast-moving class
If you want a relatively easy class where you learn a lot of material, with sufficient rigor, then this is a good class for you. Don't expect exciting examples with applications, but do expect a wonderful professor who's willing to teach and help you out with whatever you need.
This class approaches calculus in a novel fashion, integrating multivariable calculus with linear algebra. It is very theoretical, but there is a definite emphasis on the fact that all the concepts we learn can be and are applied in the real world. It's moderately difficult, but definitely manageable.
If you want to learn practical uses of linear algebra but also understand why and how a lot of it works, take this course, but be prepared to do a good amount of proofs.  If you think you like proofs (like I did), you might change your mind.  Keep 21a as an option.  From what I hear, it is easier, less time-consuming, and they do no proofs.  If you only like proofs and you're prepared enough, just take 25.  Prof. Bamberg would give you the same advice.
The material of the course is interesting, but because it is an integrated approaches, its focus will be between computation and intense proof-based. (so to speak, between 21 and 25) so it might not be as effective as 25 to be a background for very rigorous proof-based course.
This course is pretty good, if you know you like math but you're not sure if you're ready for rigorous proofs, take this class.
Avoid.
It's a very good class, and I'm very glad I took it. It's taught for a reason, and it makes sense. However, it is difficult, especially if you aren't a math person.
It's a great course. If you feel Math 25 strips away too much sleep, 23 is for you.
If you've taken calculus but have never really dealt with proofs, this is the class for you.
Make sure you are interested in abstract math before taking the class.
This is a great class, gives a thorough understand of multivariable calculus and especially, its methods and applications.
The proofs are rough, but if you can manage those, you'll do fine.
The course needs a new instructor.
Although it claims a 5 on the Calculus BC test is all that is necessary, it is definitely not who the class is aimed towards.  You will have to work hard to keep up with the many who have already taken higher level classes.  There are things that he assumes you've learned in BC, which I definitely did not learn in my class.
you have to really enjoy working with people to take this course, and that's what makes it manageable.
This class isn't for everyone. For me, it did not allow for enough time for me to fully engage/internalize the material.
This course is truly about mastery. You need to decide for yourself what combination of reading, lectures, or careful pset work will do that best for you. You also need to make connections--work gets done in groups almost universally, and it will help you study as well. Take advantage of the extra credit--it can really make up some of the points you'll lose elsewhere.
This class deftly mixes empirical and theoretical math, but it warrants a significant workload and lecture can be a grind at times.
The proofs are annoying and difficult, but really do help you understand the concepts in the lectures and are a testament to your knowledge.
It's challenging, but it can be quite enjoyable and a worthwhile experience.
If you took BC calculus in high school (and maybe another math course or two) and the concepts just seemed to 'make sense' without too much studying, then this course is probably for you.
Truly a class to challenge yourself with if you're even only slightly decent in math.
If you are interested in math but don't have the time or commitment for 25, this class offers a more rigorous treatment of abstract concepts than 21, with a healthy component of real examples.
Tests your common perception about the 2D and 3D math world and looks at Math from a different perspective than any high school math course. The collaborative format of the class makes it a joy, and the professor is great.
It's challenging but manageable.  You will learn a lot of math but not quite be sure how to use it in real life.
it is easier than you think
Somehow, this year TFs are hot !! That makes me wanna go to section but not the actual class.This class is a combination of computation/problem solving and proofsso it's supposed to be a good balance. The material is interesting the book is thick and you can slap your BF with it but it's really interesting.Prof. Bamberg is cute but you may not understand him because his jokes are quite ancient.Well, if you like math, take it.If you don't like Bamberg, don't take it.But if like those hot TFs, take it!!!!!
Students should definitely know what the course material involves and for whom the course is intended for.  Mid-semester, you may find yourself disliking the course only because you discover that the course wasn't intended for you.
This course is difficult but so rewarding.  You will meet so many great and motivated people, and Paul is great--just be prepared to work hard!
This class is a fairly easy introduction to multivariable calculus, linear algebra, and writing proofs.
Lecture would be great if you already knew the material going into class.
If you want to do college math, but don't want to spend 20 hours a week, and you still like using numbers, then this is the class for you. The proofs are not too bad: certainly not the hardest part of the course. Two things: don't fall into the trap of not going to lecture b/c you think you will watch the lecture videos and then you do not actually watch them. Also, read the textbook if you are confused. It correlates almost perfectly with lecture material, but they are slightly closer to being complements than substitutes.
Be prepared for the heavy workload, and don't fall behind on proofs.
Math 23 seems to be intermediate between Math 21 and 25, although it more closely resembles the former than the latter.  The course's integrated treatment of multivariable calculus and linear algebra is very interesting; I had previously taken courses in these subjects, but it was cool to see how they related to each other.  Most of my friends took Math 21 this semester, and it actually seems like it is easier to achieve a good grade in Math 23 than in Math 21, as the homework is graded generously and the quizzes are designed such that it is relatively easy to achieve a perfect or near-perfect score.  I would definitely encourage anyone intending to concentrate in a quantitative field (economics, physics, even biology) to at least shop Math 23.
Math 23a was dissatisfying but did teach what it claimed to.  There is certainly a good deal of rigor, which was nice, but it drifted a little away from application once in a while, and varied in difficulty through the semester.  There was quite a learning curve, too.
read and understand as much as possible and give yourself time to do this, if you actually want to enjoy the course.
Professor goes really quickly and doesnt explain things intuitively well
Take the time to really understand the material!!!  Its worth it and necessary for the final!
I learned a great deal, but I certainly didn't enjoy it. The problem sets are a way to meet people, but in the sense that misery loves company - long nights and a lot of math. This course is likely fine for those with experience with higher mathematics, but the treatment of struggling students is ruthless - can't say I recomend it, except maybe if you're switching down from 25.
It can be challenging, but it is also very rewarding.
Math 23 redefined my vision of math. It made me realize that even proof-based math could be applied to real-life applications. I enjoyed doing the proofs (and not having to generate new ones on the spot) but I also appreciate learning the applications to physics, computer science, etc.
Somewhat strange combination of material, linear algebra and multivariable not distinguished, making learning things for the first time somewhat confusing.  Interesting set of material.  Lecture outlines helpful but lectures can be unclear because material is already present in outline.
If you've taken BC, and you didn't just memorize formulas but actually understood the reasoning behind them, then by all means take this class or one of the higher ones. If you did just learn things by rote, then perhaps you won't enjoy this. Oh, and Bamberg is by far the most amusing and oddball professor I think I've ever had, k-13.
This course is a good blend of theory and application.  The professor is great.  Be prepared for some great lecture moments!
Take this class if you want to see why linear algebra/multi are linked, and how they work. The proofs may seem overwhelming at times, but when you sit down to digest them, they're incredible. I feel like Math 21 may have been even more stressful and confusing, at least that's what it seemed like from my roommate who took it as I took 23. Make sure you have people to go to when you need help. The CAs were very helpful, and Paul is very accessible. The final was hard, make sure you know how to apply all your skills, quickly.
Stay on top of your work and don't panic.
The class is extremely boring, and the way it is run is ridiculous. The point of presenting proofs to other people for points is completely superfluous to actually learning the material. Also, Paul Bamberg said at the beginning of the semester that we weren't supposed to memorize the proofs, but rather the strategies. However, in order to do well (i.e. have enough time on exams) and according to all the TFs, you need to memorize them. This severely limits your understanding of the material, as instead of studying the concepts and doing practice problems, you are stuck memorizing proofs.However, the course is graded very easily, so it isn't difficult to get an A or A- if you put in some work. Nevertheless, some other math classes may be better and might teach you more.
For many, I think this class gives the aura of being impossible. However, I think more students should try it out. The different way of thinking is difficult at first, but you get used to it. I also believe that this course is designed to help students succeed-- both in terms of grades and in terms of understanding the material. Plus, I think that this course gives students a better overall understanding of the concepts taught. TAKE THIS CLASS! You won't regret it!
Take this class if you enjoy the theoretical side of math. If you pay attention in every lecture, then you will be sure to learn a lot.
It's a great class - lectures can move fast, but they almost always make sense later (when you do the problem sets). The quizzes aren't too hard, as the problem sets already prepare you pretty well for them. The p-sets are a lot of work but very rewarding and actually pretty fun to do with a bunch of people. Take this if you're considering 21 or 23 and you really like math!
Math 23a is a perfect in-between of Math 21a and Math 25a.  If you want a challenge and are willing to learn and truly understanding over 20 basic proofs, but are intimidated by the strong theoretical emphasis in Math 25a, then take this course!
You will learn, you will work hard, and you will get a great grade from an interesting teacher.
If you want to learn not only how to do the problems but also why they work, take this class. I was expecting this to be my last math course ever but am now considering a secondary field in mathematics. This course is awesome, but be prepared to be confused, frustrated, and working hard.
Professor Bamberg is easily one of the most interesting math professors you'll ever meet, and the style of the course encourages collaboration and thorough understanding of the material.  I did well in this course with nothing more than BC Calculus and some enthusiasm.
A lot of students had multi-variable experience. It's not necessary at all. If you want a REAL math course without giving your life to math, this is the one.
This class is interesting and great in terms of difficulty (right between math 21 and 25), but the book is frustrating and lecture is dry. If you don't mind having a bad textbook, take it; not the best class ever but it is interesting, if you do the work you will get an A, and Bamberg clearly loves the class and is very nice!
read the textbook and solve problems on your own time to get the most out of lecture and section; attend office hours and put in the time to resolve uncertainties; retain proofs even after quizzes
This class does not approach the subject in the usual way.  Be prepared for the kind of quirkiness of the notation and proofs.  Sometimes this is frustrating but at other times it can be very enlightening.
Read lecture before going to class so as to have an ideaLook over problem set the day it comes out and start on Friday so that you can meet with your section leaders on saturdayUse office hours of both instructor and section leaders...present proofs to them if you don't have any questionsLearn proofs the week they are given to you. They help you understand the material the way problem sets cannot. For study groups early on and meet with them on Saturday and Sunday so that you can tackle the questions you could not do or to just check.
Prepare to be challenged but with an excellent support system.
Bamberg is one of the nicest people at Harvard and he is a delight to have in class. Sometimes, he doesn't explain things as well as things should be explained, but this is probably because his mind works differently from the average Math 23 student. The class is a lot of work, and don't expect the material to come naturally unless you've taken MVC or LinAl already. LinAl is much more helpful than MVC, though. Overall, if you want to get a taste of pure math and cool terminology, but still like applications, it's a good class. If you really like the way your high school calculus class was taught, and you like the AP curriculum in calculus, you probably won't like this class as much as Calculus BC. That being said, if you have the slightest bit of interest in pure math, this is definitely a good way to explore that interest. It cultivated it in me.
The material in this class is extremely interesting.  Paul is a very nice man, but his voice put me straight to sleep in every single lecture.  It's not too bad if you watch him at 2x speed in the lecture videos, but be prepared to do that.  It was difficult, not so much because the material is inherently difficult, but because I had a hard time learning from Paul.  The TFs are great, though, and they are the only reason that I learned anything in this class.
I'll start of by saying that this course is not perfect.  It's at the kind of awkward intersection between applied math and theoretical math.  Some people like it and some people hate it.  As a result there is no general consensus of the course.  Personally I enjoyed the class.  I will tell you that it was hard and it was my heaviest workload.  But, I did feel like I learned a large amount of mathematics in the course of the semester.  In addition the course staff was very friendly and nice.  Some people may be complaining about Paul's teaching skills in this evaluation.  As most people can tell you, he has often been a very divisive lecturer at Harvard.  I really liked him and enjoyed his teaching largely due to the fact that I took the opportunity to ask him questions personally.  It is true that sometimes his explanations can be confusing because he often does not see the need to explain the thought process in between certain steps because he thinks those steps are trivial, but if you go after class or to his office hours to ask him a question about it he will gladly answer them.  Paul just really loves to teach and, unlike many other classes offered at Harvard that only give a certain amount of good grades a semester, really wants everyone to do well.  Bottom line: If you are anything like me and have taken MV calc and linear algebra in high school, but are not good enough at math to take math 25/55 than you don't have any other option besides this class.  Just get the most that you can out of it and try not to complain about what could have happened because this really was your best choice.
Just be aware of the high workload.
What you get from this course really depends on the time and effort you put into your work. It is easy to get a good grade in this class if you 100% know how to do sample problems, group problems, and proofs.
Abandon hope all ye who enter here
Math 23a is a really great class for getting a solid introduction to proof-based mathematics. This course is a great way to find out if you're interested in taking higher-level math; many students are enthralled and some students are turned away (though they still learn a lot from this specific course), but it's really nice to know whether this is something you're interested in before continuing too far along in the mathematics track. Students from a wide variety of mathematical backgrounds and interests take this class, so it's easy to find people to study and do psets with that are interested in the same things you are. This also means that you probably won't be at the top or bottom of this class, and you'll find people to help you when you're struggling or be able to help others when they're having difficulties. Math 23a is a great class to catch up to those who have taken higher-level or proof-based mathematics in high school, and it prepares you extremely well to continue on in any sort of math, science, or economic field you are interested in.
It is a huge time commitment and can often be frustrating. Having done further math and higher math in the IB was of very little significance to the course. If taken with less demanding courses, you should find an ability to grasp the material but even so, there is much room for improvement.
the structure of this class discouraged me from actually learning the math, as opposed to merely doing problems. i learned very little about using R for anything complex or writing proofs based on more than algebra, which were the two main things that drew me to this class
This class is perfect if you are interested in theoretical math but proofs seem scary. This class will teach you how to do proofs without throwing you into the deep end like math 25. I would recommend reviewing sequences & series from BC calc if you have time. I didn't like Paul at first but he really grew on me. Lecture was hard to follow at first because he goes fast and there's a lot to listen to and look at but I got used to it and now I feel like I get a lot out of lecture.
Math 23A is a very challenging and time-consuming course. For students who aren't interested in concentrating in math but are still passionate about advanced mathematical theory, I would caution you from jumping into this course. Many times throughout the course of this semester, I considered dropping the course because it was so time and labor intensive. Problem sets take a very long time, although they are very edifying and rewarding upon completion. If you are willing to put in the hours though, this class is really not as bad as people may describe it to be. The course staff are all incredibly supportive and they will do whatever they can to help you understand the material.
Don't be intimidated. Taking Math 23 over 21 was one of the best decisions I made during my freshman year, and I came in with only AP Calculus BC (in junior year, too, so I'd forgotten a lot!). The course is structured in a very logical way and it eases you into proof-based thinking, R, LaTeX, and all these other skills that are just generally useful moving forward. Problem sets can be tough, but they're perfectly doable if you go to office hours (and the CAs are pretty awesome). And quizzes are generally fair... you'll know exactly what to expect, and preparation is straightforward. You'll come out with a renewed sense of self-efficacy; you learn a lot in just one semester!
There are some eccentricities of Paul's teaching style and the way that the course is structured. I don't think Paul is an ineffective teacher, but I think significant changes in the way the lectures are structured really improve the class. That being said, 23 occupies a unique niche in the math department and I think there really are quite a number of students who have either seen most of the material covered in 21 but are reluctant to take 25. If you fall into this category and choose to take this class, go to office hours! Especially Kate's office hours. I often didn't feel like I had a good grasp of the material after attending lecture, but office hours really cleared up my understanding.
Time consuming
The math concepts covered in this class are very interesting, but the way the course is organized is less exciting. Lectures cannot be understood unless you watch the preview videos first, and even those are quite brief. Lectures end up just being a chance for you to copy down notes to study later. One section is graded, but how this is done is extremely ambiguous. The up side is that if you have a good late section leader, you will receive excellent review of the past weeks material at the beginning of each week. Exams are quite manageable if you study the all the problems sans problem sets.
Take Math 21a or 25a!
I originally took this class after taking Math 25a. However, I ended up taking math 23a because there is much more in this course that supports your learning. Math 25a wasn't supported by sections and when I noticed the amount of time I would have to spend on pests (time I didn't have), I went to Math 23a. I think it was personally a smart choice because while I did still have to spend some time on HW, section reinforced learning and I was much more prepared and knowledgeable about the material after class than I was in math 25a. (Note: I have a lot of math background (calculus from a while back, lin al., diff eq,, and other classes). However, the material covered in my previous classes were done and over with in four weeks.) Harvard classes are much more in-depth, so be prepared. Also, brace yourself for real analysis
the r-scripts can be hard to follow, but the course material is legitimately very interesting and taught in such a way that one leaves the course having gained a profound understanding of the topics.
very difficult, but there is a strong support system & definitely more online resources than comparable math courses (e.g. 25)
Read the book! By far the most helpful.
While the material taught in this class is extremely valuable for applications in other subjects (for example economics and statistics), the way this class is taught is not too helpful in grasping all of the topics as too much material is crammed into one class.
Work early and work often on P-sets and proofs. It will benefit you much in the long run.
I have very mixed feelings about this course.  It's also difficult for me to judge, because this semester, the course was taught differently than usual.  Math 23a has so much potential to be great, but for me, it seemed I had to teach myself a lot of the stuff  In lecture, we would do R scripts and problems that we didn't yet understand because we hadn't learned the material.  Kate's lecture preview videos were good, but not so extensive that we could jump into the material without more of an intro.  This class definitely shows the theoretical as well as practical side of math.  Know that it is A LOT of work.  I never expected it to be that much work.  If Paul goes back to the traditional way of doing notes, it might be great.  Regardless, I don't have a big recommendation whether to take or not take this course.  I just hope that you have some idea of what you're signing up for, because I didn't.  We were the guinea pigs of a new format that did not work very well, but I've heard that his formats have worked in the past.  In terms of the order of content, the restructure worked beautifully, but for style of lectures and sections, it didn't work.
Paul is a fun professor. He is accessible to students.
Hard, time-consuming,  you might not like the teacher that much
I didn't really learn anything.  However, I was still able to get a pretty good grade, which shows there's something wrong with the course.  Lectures were basically useless, as you just watch Paul speed through a bunch of proofs and problems while you scribble notes furiously and process almost zero information.  Then you cram your proofs and psets in on the last day without really understanding anything, and somehow manage to memorize all of the proofs and sample problems so you get a good grade on the exams.
This is a good class with a professor that understand what it's like to be a first year student. If you feel intimidated by the first day of class I would urge you to sit through the first week and try the first PSET. A lot of people started to feel a lot more comfortable with the pace and difficulty of the course as time went on.
Only take this class if you think you're seriously interested in math but don't have the time to commit to Math 25. I never meant for Math 23 to be my "main" class but it became that  it took me the most hours every week and caused me the most anxiety and frustration to really try to understand the material. This class requires a LOT more work than I realized to do the problem sets well and to try to grapple with the material.  The problem sets were reasonable for the most part but on top of that there are new proofs to memorize every week, and an exam every 4-5 weeks that requires a HUGE amount of time to study for. Exams required hours and hours of memorizing dozens of proofs and example problems in order to do well. I easily spent 10 or more hours on a typical week, and dozens of hours in the days leading up to exams. On the other hand, I did learn a lot of math.  If you take this class, know that you will spend many hours at office hours, but that the course staff is understanding and very helpful. Paul is also probably one of the kindest and most knowledgeable people at Harvard and really did everything he could to take student feedback into account. If you don't go to Paul's office hours at least once, you're missing out!
You will cover a lot of material at a quick pace, but not super in depth. You will learn about many different topics, but sometimes they will seem disjointed. There is quite a bit of memorizing proofs and proof strategies, which many people tend to find difficult, especially if they haven't had experience with proofs.
It's a far more demanding class than you might expect, especially since there's kind of an expectation that you've already learned the material on your own before coming to lecture, but worth it if you want to see what math is really like outside of the high school bubble.
Paul is hilarious! If you are at all interested in knowing some of the theoretical aspects of math, or if you just want to have a very firm and comprehensive base, this class is fantastic. Paul is not a conventionally good teacher, but he is very bright and very helpful and wants to see every student succeed in his class. Don't get scared off by his first few lectures; Paul uses a lot of R scripts in his class and sometimes you might feel a little lost, but you will learn so much in this class! He goes through a ton of material and at a manageable pace. Kate's lecture are a fantastic supplement to lecture. If you are vacillating between 21/23/25, I would definitely recommend 23 as a great option; it is significantly more theoretical than 21, but provides a much lighter workload than 25, all while giving you most (if not all) of the math you would need to apply to any science or applied math concentration.
It was a chill course without too much time commitment, but I did not particularly enjoy the structure of the class, and thus did not physically go to the class after the first week. I would have loved to take Math 25a if professor Gross was teaching; if you're contemplating between this and 25a, definitely go for 25a...
I would only take this class if you are interested in proof-based mathematics but have never seen it before. Otherwise, I feel that math 21 would have been much more practical and math 25 would have been much more helpful.
Do you love math? Hoe much do you love math? A lot? A little? think carefully about these questions. This class is either for you or it's not. you probably don't want to be in it if it's not.
This class definitely requires some mental organization outside of class, figuring out how to handle the format of the class, but with friends in the class, it becomes reasonably enjoyable, and I feel like I definitely learned in the class and have more confidence dealing with proofs.
Just take 21 or 25. The approach this course takes to teaching is absolutely terrible. Paul just does proofs and sample problems for the entire lecture with the assumption that you already understand the material. This would be fine if the class actually provided a way to learn the material. Instead, there are these useless "lecture preview" videos which consist of a TF reading the useless "executive summaries" that are poorly-written, confusing, and ineffective at developing intuition. There is almost no attempt made to achieve understanding of the topics, and indeed appears that even some of the TF's don't understand them (mine didn't know what a gradient was). The exams consists of rote memorization of proofs and computation strategies. Ultimately, there are serious flaws in this course's pedagogical approach that renders it entirely ineffective at what it advertises to teach. I cannot in good conscience recommend this course to anyone.
Take this class: it's hard work, but it's very rewarding. You'll come out thinking that you have learned a lot!
The course may at times seem to be rather haphazard, but by the end of the term it has come together rather nicely.
If you're happy to teach yourself most or all of the material and concepts behind what we learn in class, this class would be a good fit. But, the pace of the class is very quick and the subject matter seemed random and incongruous at many times, making it difficult to feel the class was building on past knowledge. I was between taking 21 and 23 this year and wish I had taken 21 to save myself a lot of headaches over memorizing proofs and spending many many hours outside of class having to watch Khan academy videos and other professors on youtube to actually understand the material.
Math 23a can be seen as a weird intermediary between 21 and 25, which does its job. Honestly, if there were Math 24 I would have taken it, but math 23 does a good job in integrating proof writing skills and problem solving skills. The exams may be lengthy and tedious, but it is do-able and you get a lot of preparation for it. The course material is essential in any math/science disciplines, and we learn what is useful and relevant without losing focus and depth. I would recommend this if you are not sure you want to be a math major, or are sure you want to pursue a major that uses mathematical tools.
If you're looking for something more rigorous than Math 21 but only have a background in AP Calculus, this class is probably perfect for you. The first module (Linear Algebra) was a pretty big shift from high school calculus and was definitely the most difficult part of the course. However, there is a great community in the course and you will find a great group of people to study with, and when you have lots of people working together, finishing the psets isn't that bad - you really just have to sit down and do it and make time to go to office hours. Once you get used to the format of the class, learning real analysis and toplogy goes pretty smoothly (that's not to say it isn't still pretty difficult at times). One more thing - you have to be up for memorizing a LOT of proofs, especially in the real analysis module. If you want to learn how to use R and/or LaTeX, you will also be forced to learn those skills in this class!
A difficult class, but you will learn so much math. You'll learn to love Bamberg.
This is a challenging course but worthwhile, struggling through the psets is frustrating at times but figuring things out is very fulfilling.
The proof component of this course is very valuable and you will learn a lot thanks to it. However, I think the reliance on R scripts for lectures make the material very difficult to understand. Moreover, each Problem Set requires a LOT of work. I ended up spending my whole weekends on those having very little time for other courses. I would say: do take this class if you are into proving theorems and if you can calculate very quickly but do not combine it with too many courses with a heavy workload. Do not take that class if you are not too much into math.
This class provided a more comprehensive picture of math than I've ever had before without becoming too demanding. The course is very organized and the teaching staff is enthusiastic and genuinely cares about students' success. Lectures weren't always that engaging, however.
This class is time-consuming, and real analysis is just a difficult subject to wrap one's brain around.  The class can be frustrating at times, but if you're willing to put in the time, it can be pretty rewarding I guess.  Except presenting proofs, which will always and forever be terrible.
Personally, I took this class to challenge myself while obtaining credit toward a technical concentration. I was sometimes frustrated with the proofs, and was always eager to move onward toward their applications. If you are someone who is particularly interested in theoretical math, then this class would probably be a good fit, but if you enjoy using math more as a tool to solve problems, maybe another course would be more suitable. However, Professor Bamberg was a great lecturer with some good jokes, so that aspect of the class was a plus.
Please do not take this course.  The current format is extraordinarily flawed. If the course changes dramatically I might change my answer, but for right now the lectures are useless and ultimately you are teaching yourself.
It tries to provide a compromise between the rigorous proof of 25 and the mechanical computation of 21. In doing so, it shoots itself in the foot: you don't engage deeply with either proof or method. Having said that, you get out what you put in. If you put the work in, I'm sure you can learn a lot.
The "application" section of this course is not as extensive as it seems to be. Most of the mathematics in this course is theoretical, with light connections to other disciplines. Although the course may improve in preparing course material and other aspects since it was recently renovated, it should be noted that this is a moderate course in theoretical mathematics rather than a mixture of practical and theoretical mathematics.
Lectures are not great, material is too hard to understand without good lectures.
It's a lot of work and memorization. I definitely learned, but I'm not sure if it was worth all the effort.
Make use of the extensive course materials. They're incredibly well done. Paul is delightful also
If you just want to learn how to use multivariable calculus and linear algebra, I would suggest taking 21a/b. If you have a decent amount of experience with proofs, I would suggest taking 25a. Both of these courses are taught much more effectively than 23a, and I get the feeling from my peers that they understand the material much more thoroughly. It's not that the material covered in 23a is bad, it's just that it is presented very unsuccessfully (I found Paul's lectures unhelpful, especially due to his use of the programming language R to do in-class examples.) The class relies on a lot of memorization of proofs and recipes rather than requiring you to understand the concepts. I would only suggest 23a if you really want a basic introduction to proofs and are willing to forgo better teaching for that sake.
