The math you learn in this course is extremely important. If you took math 21, you need to take this course.
This class requires a lot of time.
For Applied Math majors, unless you are interested in the theoretical areas of topic, there is probably a less time-consuming way to learn the relevant material for the concentration requirement.
Difficult and time-consuming, but worth it.
Excellent way to learn higher mathematics.
You probably won't ever use the math but the problem solving skills are valuable.
By taking this course, you will partially recover from the mistake of having taken Mathematics 21.
This is a pretty well organized course.  The lecturer is generally good and shes fair in the way she accepts assignments and the problems that she gives.
Essential material, must be learned.
Professor Siu is enthusiastic about the material and he teaches it well, which makes the class better, But the material is difficult and so is the class.
Take this course, but with another professor.
If you're into math and you want this to be your hardest class, take it with Siu.  He's wicked smart and you will (willingly or unwillingly) learn a lot.  If you want this to be your second or third hardest class, do not do not do not take this with Siu.  As rewarding as it can be at times, it requires extreme dedication to get through the problem sets that you may not have time for.
Probably ought to wait until Professor Siu isn't teaching it again. He teaches well but is very demanding; in the previous year (Professor Sachs), there wasn't even a final!
This class (and its associated workload) is very teacher-specific. Even if this particular year gets bad reviews, definitely shop this course. Real Analysis is an interesting and incredibly useful subject that pops up everywhere, so it's definitely worth it to take the course, if the teacher is good and the workload manageable. Just shop it and see what the workload is.
This course turns boys into men.
Yum-Tong is a tough professor, but stick with him, and you'll learn a lot.
This course will teach you to solve problems and explain your solution in clear, concise language.  Learning this method of proof is valuable even if you may not use the particular content of real analysis.
The material was largely uninteresting.  A lot of analysis seems like proof for the sake of proof.  Also, Professor Sacks rarely said anything that couldn't be found in the book, and often if he did it only made things more confusing.  I stopped going to class around the time of the midterm and it wasn't a problem at all.
BE COMFORTABLE WITH PROOFS
This class is a bit of a mess.
It is a very rigorous and interesting course.  In the first few weeks you may find yourself completely lost and worried you will never understand certain topics (I certainly was).  But about halfway through the semester you start to get the mindset to work through the course, and when you look back at the earlier material you wonder why you thought it was so difficult.
This is interesting and important subject matter, and it is not that hard to get a good grade in this class.  However, this class is not well organized, and there is a lot of inefficiency.
Request the syllabus at the beginning of the class.
It's difficult and can be pretty dry. Math classes also really depend on the instructor, so shop it first to get a feel for it.
I guess the math department has different professors teach courses every year, so it's hard to say.
Be prepared to work hard and think deeply about the contents taught in this class.
Many of the homework problems have solutions on line so you must be disciplined and not look at these solutions so as to properly learn the material. Without struggling through the psets there is no other way to understand the stuff.
The course material is interesting and I'm glad I learned it. The grading is easy and the exam was very fair. However, actual class was not very useful, and many people didn't attend.
Like most courses in the math department, the experience is likely dependent on the instructor.  Professor Sacks was a bit clumsy at times, but overall his lectures were effective in teaching the most important material from each chapter.  Assignments were challenging, but manageable.
Don't take it with Sacks.
Do it. Especially if Prof. Hopkins teaches. He's a cool dude, knows his stuff and a great entertainer. Favorite class this term!
I took this class as an economics concentrator with Math 21a/b background, which I took 3 years ago. The material was tough at times but the course was extremely accommodating. It was one of the most rewarding experiences I've in college.
Walked into this class expected a challenge, but this version probably moved too slowly.  Should be fine to take after 21a, 21b without too much trouble.
Analysis is a hairy subject, and this course will not make you love it. Take it if you like integrals and have a strong work ethic; otherwise, don't.
it seems that the professor changes every year. if hopkins is teaching, take it. hes a great lecturer and gives fair assignments
Great course, really focuses on important concepts in introductory real analysis. Hopkins is hilarious and a great teacher!
As many will say of introductory analysis, the material of the course is not very exciting - it's stuff you know i.e. derivatives, integrals etc.  However, you should take this course to get a better understanding of proofs in analysis.  Professor Hopkins does an excellent job of working through the rationale of different proofs and focusing on the methodology.
The course material was really interesting and fun to work on. I also came from 23 and it was not very repetitive and I really learned how to do proofs which I did not learn in 23.  If Hopkins is teaching again, he is very interesting and engaging but does not put that much time into the course and it is rather unorganized.
This course sets out rigorous proofs of basic calculus. None of the material is new, but it is a great opportunity to learn why calculus actually works. I would recommend it to anyone who has taken lower-level math and wants to get some experience with proofs. I took the class after only 21a and 21b, and I was able to understand with some work even though I hadn't taken math 101. More than any particular topic, this class teaches you how to think logically. Take it!
There is a high chance this class will make you fell stupid. But keep in mind that this is not an intro course where you learn a formula and apply it mechanically, but where 3 lines of proof require several hours of thinking and connecting definitions and theorems. If you really want to understand what is going on in the course, be willing to put many hours and a lot of thought into it.
I would highly recommend Math 112 with Professor Hopkins for those interested in analysis and writing proofs.
Prof. Hopkins is fantastic however the course instructor usually changes from year to year. Math 112 will give you an understanding of why we use the real numbers and their subsequent properties. Take if you like proof-based math. Expect to put in a significant number of hours on the problem sets (unless you've taken analysis before) but this is how you'll learn the material.
Course will require you to understand the langauge used in Math. Exposure to proof writing and logic before taking the class will be useful.
the hardness depends heavily on the instructor
If Professor Lurie is teaching it, the class will in general be very well structured with easy-to-follow lectures, and fair psets and exams. Concepts covered include continuity, series, sequences, convergence, compactness. If a student is already familiar with these, the first half of the class will be a lot of review. The second half covered mostly differentiation and integration. Concentrate on taking good notes and do not count on the textbook as a good source to learn material. Exams and psets are based primarily on lectures.
This class is only for those interested in mathematics for its own sake, and willing to put in lots of time proving results that (in some cases) are from math 1a/1b. That said, Professor Lurie is brilliant, lectures for 90 minutes with only a piece of chalk (no notes, etc), and does do a good job, for the most part, of making difficult concepts clear.
This course really depends on the professor but Lurie was clear and helpful; despite being a great mathematician I felt he was able to sympathize with the mathematical maturity of most of the class
The difficulty seems to vary a lot from year to year.  Based on comparisons with last year's material, I think this incarnation was easier, which is good if you're really only interested in getting good at proofs (i.e. as a prereq for other stuff like Econ) rather than becoming a hardcore mathematician
For students coming out of 21a and 21b (which are poorly run classes), this is a great introduction to higher level math and analysis. (and a lot more enjoyable than 21a/b). That said, it is still a challenging course and will require some time and effort. Lurie was probably the best/second best math teacher I've had at Harvard.
That being said, Lurie is an awesome lecturer who is great at motivating the proofs and engaging the class, and Akhil is a super helpful and nice CA. They're great at explaining and answering questions. Would take classes with them again.
This class made me realize how beautiful math is. It made me really appreciate abstraction and theory after working extremely hard to understand them.
Take it if you are applying to grad school in economics or you have to ! Don't take it for fun unless you can take it pass fail or something! I honestly don't know how the grading will work but I am not that optimistic!
Good class. Should take it if you want to do further math stuff and didn't take math 23/25/55
This course is challenging, and probably you will either stay caught-up with the material and do fine, or start falling behind and struggle as the gaps in understanding start building up. Take the class only if you know that you will need analysis later on or are genuinely interested in the topic.
This class has me torn. On one hand, I feel like I learned so much math and I'm much more confident in my ability to learn more. On the other hand, I took this course as an elective and this course brought on a lot more pain than I expected. First off, the lectures aren't too excitingin fact they're almost to the textbook, word by word. Not sure if I can blame the instructor for that, since it may very well be just the nature of the material. But regardless, I did not look forward to lectures at all. That being said, office hours were fantastic. Tristan is approachable and REALLY knows his stuff, and I just had a lot of fun talking about problems in his office with peers. In terms of the material, it starts off VERY boring and painful, but then once you get into the meat of the material it starts to get interesting, and now as I reflect back on what I've learned, I think I'm leaving the class with a newfound appreciation for math (especially given that I'm taking this course after the 21 series). Overall, recommend this course if you want to learn more math after 21s.
It was little harder than expected.  You probably should not skip class if that ever crosses your mind...
If you're considering taking a Math class and haven't yet done any proof-based Math classes, this one is probably a good start.
Very good course to take, especially for Applied Math students who thought they only wanted to take AM courses. Teaches a new way to understand math - very worthwhile and engaging.
This was my first proofs-based course coming out of the 21 track, and I highly recommend taking it if you're in a similar situation.  While it might seem a little intimidating at first, the proofs element quickly becomes easier, and the material is cool. Taking this course got me excited about pure math, and I'm definitely planning on taking more math courses in the future.
The class changes drastically from year to year, so there's not much I can say. Prof. Collins is good, so feel free to take the course if he's teaching. The stuff we learned isn't the most compelling in the world.
This class is pretty hard and will require a lot of time and effort, but it is very rewarding at the end when you finally feel like you understand all of the math you have ever learned prior. It is possible to take this class as an introduction to the 100s, but it will require you to reach out for help often.
I didn't get much more out of this class than I would have by reading Rudin independently.
The class is a great introduction to real analysis. It adopts a very thorough approach and I feel would provide you with the necessary tools for further study in analysis. But be prepared to put in a lot of work.
This is a tough class. Be prepared to work long hours.
A good intro to real analysis to get familiar with the tools of analysis. Is more straightforward than 25b, and the workload is definitely a lot less.
Don't try to take notes in lecture, just focus and then look up the relevant proofs and examples in the book later. For me, taking notes was too distracting and I would get lost.
Challenging but rewarding. Don't know how it stacks up against its applied math equivalent, but in my experience the pure math department courses are always better taught. Be prepared to put in the necessary work and effort.
Yaiza is a great teacher, and I enjoyed reading the book we used (Marsden, not Rudin!). She is very approachable and always makes sure that the class is on the same page. She also has great handwriting. Section was optional, and not really related to the class: it's enough to read the book and attend lecture.
I get the sense that the quality of this class depends on the quality of the instructor. Unfortunately, the instructor changes every year. Yaiza was fantastic, she really cares about the course and is really helpful to students. That said, the material isn't easy. It takes a lot of time and effort to get it right. So I would make sure you are comfortable with the instructor and be willing to put in the time.
A solid introduction to real analysis that could definitely benefit from more continuity in professors teaching the course and material covered.
I took the class with Yaiza, but I believe she won't be teaching this next year so I'm sorry my comments won't be super-generalizable. However, I still want to take the chance to talk about how great this class was. The material is foundational to all the math you learn up to 21a, and Yaiza did a wonderful job explaining it all. She was incredibly supportive and knowledgeable. She also was clearly dedicated to ensuring her students succeeded; when some were unhappy with their scores on the first midterm, she added an optional extra component to the second midterm so students could make up points they'd lost on the first one. I can't speak highly enough about the course and professor.
PRACTICE. PRACTICE. PRACTICE. TILL INFINITY.
The course was taught incredibly well and it is a fantastic platform for becoming more comfortable with proof based mathematics.
Definitely doable even if you haven't taken a proof class before, but in that case, you need to find people in the class to study with!
Be prepared to spend often 20 hours on weekly assignments depending on the professor; work and other classes will get pushed to the back burner.
Prof. Canzani is a great teacher! She gives clear lectures, and actually cares about her students, so definitely take this class if she teaches it again. Otherwise, it's pretty standard real analysis: epsilon-delta proofs, a little topology, study of limits and functions, etc.
Prepare to work the hardest you ever have . I did (the hardest I have in any math class in my entire life). But the feeling of accomplishment and achievement I sensed at the end of this semester have been incredible. I truly understand the foundations of real analysis. Even more, I feel confident enough to take on higher level math and challenging courses at Harvard. This class will work you hard, but it will provide you with a skill set few other classes can.
Personally, I'm just not a huge fan of real analysis.  So the class was good - it was well organized with plenty of office hours for support, all good things for a class - but I didn't love it.
This is going to be challenging but if you following the lectures/ understand the homeworks and be able to recreate the proofs, you'll be able to master this material.
Do not take this course if you have not done proofs before. It will be difficult.
I took this class with no proof based background (21ab). It is doable but prepared to work hard in reading the textbook/starting psets early. Definitely get a copy of Rudin.
The psets are easily doable without really understanding the material as thoroughly as you should, especially early on.. This foundational material is important so really focus on getting ahead at the beginning before the pace of the course picks up.
One of the cornerstones of applied mathematics. Not a ton of work nor is it as difficult as it might be. Lots of help from TFs and Fabian is always available. Get yourself a hard copy of the book -- it's useful and easy to reference it online.
Pretty dry material and quite difficult
You can learn straight from the reading if that is how you like to learn. Be wary of the lack of prerequisites. You can take it without taking a 100 level course but you will end up spending a lot of time on the class as the material itself is fairly challenging.
A previous student wrote in the cue "real analysis is like vegetables: they don't taste very good going down, but they're probably good for you." This is the best summary of real analysis I can give. Before taking this class, I recommend being comfortable writing proofs, but you don't need to be an expert. Rudin is great at walking you through all the proofs, so read the book over a couple times and try to make sure you understand all the steps of the proofs. The midterms we really hard for me, but the final felt easier. I'm happy I took this course and I'm looking forward to talking more math courses next semester.
I took this class because I am a math concentrator and needed a class with a 1 in the middle (analysis). I also think it would be useful for stat210. The lectures were terribly boring. Rudin (the textbook) is kind of hard to understand. So my advice is take this class if you have to and do not take this class if you have no reason to.
I would recommend this class but I would warn them that it is a class that one needs to focus and work hard on every day.
I know some of my peers disagree, but I found Math 112 to be incredibly much fun. If you give it the time it deserves (and seek help if you need some), you can really learn a whole new way of thinking and enjoy every bit of doing so. I worried I would be disadvantaged for not having done Math 101 in beforehand, but was positively surprised to find the course very manageable straight out of Math 21a/b. In fact, I feel it did great job teaching how to write proofs. In addition, it made the approach of higher mathematics feel very relevant: knowing that topics of limits, calculus, and functional analysis are of great importance in many fields of applied mathematics was a great inspiring factor throughout the course. I would highly recommend this course!
As hard as it is useful. If you want to understand math, you need this class. Lectures aren't much different from the book, so it can get boring but you'll feel so proud to have taken it!
This course is okay. I took it as an elective because I was interested in the material - the psets took up more time (for an elective) than I would have liked. There was a strong proof-emphasis for the course; I personally would have preferred less emphasis on proof, but I understand the course is supposed to be an introduction to this sort of thinking.
It is definitely doable coming straight out of the 21 sequence, but it is a challenge. Make sure you know what you are committing to in studying real analysis; the material is very dry. Problem sets and exams with Haiden were particularly hard. Good luck.
This is a difficult class, but there are plenty of resources for you if you need help.
This class teaches you real analysis and familiarizes you with various concepts. It's great
20% of the class on either ends of the distribution probably shouldn't take this class. If you're in the middle 80% my suggestion is take it and persevere. Though the material gets more difficult over time, it becomes more durable, if not enjoyable.If you're on either ends of the tail you probably shouldn't take it.
For those of you who have little experience with proofs, you will find this course to be challenging, and at times, conceptually overwhelming. But the brain is a beautiful thing, and if you constantly try to iterate your understanding of the material using the available class resources and information on the internet, you will end up "getting it" by semester's end. Good luck on your journey.
Be very careful about taking this class. Be prepared for a very difficult class, and be prepared to rely on yourself for developing intuition and understanding. There are no homework solutions, which was very odd to me. In lecture, Fabian essentially read the textbook to us. The class is very much proof-theorem-proof-theorem ad infinitum. It can be very dry.
Really hard class, but rewarding at the same time. Fabian really cares about his students and if you put in the work, you definitely learn to solve problems much more efficiently.
This class is difficult, especially if you have never written proofs before. Fabian teaches essentially by reading the Rudin textbook out loud, so lecture did not feel especially special, and I think because of that it was harder to learn the concepts since we essentially only had one resource- the textbook. Tests are brutal, especially because many theorems and topics are covered and there is very little guidance as to exactly what is going to be on the exams so you have to memorize as much as you can. It is a cool class because you can walk in without having written a proof before and leave the class knowing much more, but can be super stressful experience overall because it demands so much, particularly come exam time. I do not regret taking this class, but I would be lying if I said that it made my semester a little close to miserable at times.
It's a rigorous class, that is fairly difficult. I would only recommend taking this class if you want to apply to grad school or challenge yourself.
Read the textbook carefully, and take the time to understand the ins and outs of the proofs presented there. The lectures will generally just be a regurgitation of what's in the textbook, which is a little disappointing. But Fabien is extremely helpful in office hours and occasionally provides alternative definitions that are much more comprehensible than Rudin's definitions (for example, his definition of connectedness).
Professor Haiden is a good lecturer, and explains concepts from the textbook very well.
Summary: Math 112 is a rigorous introduction to the fundamental theory underlying calculus. The weekly time commitment is roughly 12-15 hours, and weeks with midterms, while a break from the weekly pset, require approximately the same amount of time to be dedicated to studying. I came in with some prior proof-writing experience, but this course definitely gave me a whole range of new tools to approach more difficult proofs. The Rudin textbook, while dense, is reasonably approachable. Prof. Haiden is a clear and concise lecturer, offering intuition behind the proofs in Rudin. The classes consist of going over a set of proofs from the book, but the benefit of attending regularly is seeing the intuition behind particularly tricky steps. There are two midterms and a final exam. I found the midterms to be fair. The homework problems were disproportionately more difficult than the test questions, however. Definitely recommend TeXing psets, as submissions grow to pages by the end of the semester. CAs were awesome--overall very helpful and willing to walk through psets with students. Biggest frustration would be that communication wasn't entirely clear regarding to what extent test preparation should involve memorizing proofs from Rudin, or being familiar with the definitions in order to do new proofs on the tests (i.e. ones not in Rudin). Overall, would recommend for those trying to enter more advanced math classes, definitely will improve your proof-writing skills through intense assignments. But, important to block out the time to devote to this class.
This class provides a good overview of real analysis.  Fabian is very nice, and exams are fair.  Take it if you're interested in gaining a better understanding of proof-based math.
Take this only as needed to get you where you need to go. Fabian clearly meant well, but his lectures were at times very dry. This is a difficult course that takes up a lot of time, and I recommend you take another proof-based course first like Math 101. Section was extremely helpful and definitely read Rudin to get a sense of the intuition.
I found the online real analysis lectures more helpful than our lectures.
I could have gone to none of the lectures and just read the notes or the textbook and gotten the same grade on the homework and exams. Lectures and content are very dry and boring. Everything is straight out of Rudin so you could teach yourself all the content without even taking the class if you are disciplined. Also, I would recommend against renting/buying a physical copy of the book because the book is easy to find online.
Professor Haiden is a great teacher. If he teaches the class, I would highly recommend. His lectures are as engaging as they can be for a real analysis class, and he makes a genuine effort for students to understand the material. A difficult proof class that you should budget to spend a lot of time thinking about and working on problems, very rewarding but not for the faint-hearted.
This course is hard. The midterms are hard. Take this course if you have to or if you are interested in the material.
Not a particularly interesting course overall, but also some good topics and proofs. Also good if you're interested in being introduced to real analysis and the foundations of calculus.
This class is fine - not particularly good or bad.  You need to know the material to do more interesting stuff.  Something everyone has to suffer through, I guess.
This is a difficult course. You must give the course the hours it seeks, doing a lot of practice problems and trying to understand Rudin. That being said, going to class seemed a little pointless since everything was, for the most part, just a reiteration of Rudin and lecture notes after class make sure you don't do any extra readings from Rudin  that won't be on the test. The teaching fellows were great though and actually did what I believed should have occurred in class, an explanation of Real Analysis.
math112 is a trial ground for freshly minted instructors to teach for the first time, but fortunately the discipline is ancient and isn't too hard to explain
If Rudin is the textbook that is used make sure you have a supplementary text early in the course to help you develop intuition.
This is a good, fair class. I found it pretty interesting, but you definitely have to look past some superficial stuff in order to get there (like dull lectures and a super dense/hard to read text book). But Fabian's heart was totally in the right place and he made the information as digestible as possible and really cared about students doing well, which was comforting. I can only imagine that he'll get better at teaching the course in years to come. overall a great intro to higher level math, especially when paired with Harvey Mudd Youtube lectures!
Real analysis is very different from other math. Proofs are hard. Lectures can be dry; more or less just reading the textbook. If you're genuinely interested in proofs and the behind-the-scenes derivations of a lot of the math we take for granted, it's a solid class. If that's not your cup of tea, don't put yourself through what could be hell.
Math 112 is a difficult course, especially if you haven't taken a real mathematics class before. However, I throughly enjoyed the rigor of the class, and it was a great introduction to rigorous mathematics. I took Math 101 before taking this, but this class required a new level of mathematical reasoning. While the homework assignments are not long, the exams are quite difficult, so you will have to study a lot outside of class.
Definitely learned a lot and feel stronger, though Tristian is not the greatest teacher, lack enthusiasm.
The class is difficult, and most people will not have taken any math class like it. But this is what all upper level math is going to be like.
Lectures can be very boring because they are completely based on the book. I later resorted to watching Youtube videos of Harvey Mudd College's real analysis class, which is way more engaging... The Indian Institute of Technology's real analysis class is also based on the textbook. Sadly I found these professors to be more helpful - hope this won't be the case for you!
This class is very interesting but it is very demanding. You'll get a lot out of it but midterms are very hard, which can be discouraging. Tristan is an amazing lecturer, but the course tends to be disorganized. Assignments are often returned late and practice problems given to us only a few days before exams.
This class involves coming up with extremely rigorous proofs on the homework assignments as well as on the midterms and finals. Unless you have experience with writing proofs or want to learn how to write rigorous proofs, then this class may not be for you.
Tristan is a great teacher. Doing the problems in the back of the book is very helpful to begin feeling like you really understand the material.
Only take this class if you want to learn the ins and outs of calculus and like abstract math or otherwise have this as a requirement. This is not the most enjoyable of classes
A rigorous class that forces you to think about math in a different way. Not much support from teaching staff so it's really sink or swim. Don't get behind and work really hard from day 1, and you should be alright.
If you have to take it, be ready to work REALLY REALLY hard and ABSOLUTELY DO NOT FALL BEHIND.
It's like vegetables: it's probably not that fun going down, but it's probably good for you.
Follows Rudin word for word. So if you have enough discipline you can teach the course to yourself and just go to a higher math class.Tests also draw HEAVILY from Rudin and past HW, so very important to review those problems.
Take it!!!!!!!
It's tough. Don't take it lightly. Do every practice problem you can.
This is a good intro material wise to proofs. Definitely can go straight from the 21s. Tristan is nice but monotonous. His lectures are almost directly out of the book. I'm glad I took it but found class to be very boring.
This class is super hard! Tristan is a good lecturer and explains things well, but the material is really difficult to grasp!
Really good course. If Tristan Collins is teaching it, take it. He is a really nice guy, has a great sense of humor and since Office Hours are useful. I felt like every time I went to Office Hours I understood a concept much better and got more intuition. Sometimes he does not really answer your questions, but rather asks them back right to you and makes you go to his board, which is really helpful. He is very relaxed and clearly knowledgeable. Besides, you start to really see the beauty of math and to learn how to think about math and how to do proofs. I had taken Math 23 with Paul Bamberg and really don't regret/recommend taking Math 112. Instead of memorizing proofs you actually learn how to do them.
