Professor taubes was fantastic, and if you are intested in learing about topology and some more formal tools of pure math this is the class to take. It is very informative and if you keep up with the work you will learn a lot (and the lectures are quite entertaining), however if you are so inclined much of the material is straight out of the book so much of this you can learn on your own.
The textbook and the material are really good.
It depends on who's teaching!
This class is a lot of work, and the material does not come naturally, but if you put effort in to it you can get a lot out of it.
Good class, take it!
Cool class, quite relaxed. Taubes can generate mixed reactions but I liked him and found his lectures hilarious. I also think he's got the right idea emphasising get ethical intuition more than most would - there are plenty opportunities to do algebra at Harvard - even algebraic topology should at the end of the day be geometry, albeit expressed algebraically.
I took this class to fulfill the math 130's requirement and was not disappointed. I learned the basics of topology extremely well and got a solid introduction to basic algebraic topology. Munkres is a fantastic textbook and Prof. Taubes designs very good problem sets mostly consisting of Munkres problems. Prof. Taubes's unique midterm and final projects are very good for learning important topics well while not being too stressful (since he lets you redo them if you messed anything up). I definitely recommend this as a very solid math class!
Take this class if it is taught by Professor Taubes; otherwise your experience is likely to differ from ours.
CLIFFDAWG IS THE MAN
I think everyone in math and physics should take an intro to topology class, because it is hugely important as a branch of mathematics and has really surprising applications for physicists. The instructors in the math department change from year to year, but the standard text for this course is Munkres, which is a great book. I do think it's worth working hard to develop an intuition for the material, because it's fairly easy to push ideas around for homeworks without really understanding what you're doing. As for Professor Taubes, he has very charming moments in lecture if you're paying attention, but I won't pretend that he's the greatest lecturer I've had in the math department. Still, I do like his writing assignments, and he works hard for his students, which is very evident.
Topology is a beautiful topic and Prof. Taubes does a great job of conveying the intuition that can make topology really fun to study.
Strongly recommend to study the basics of topology on your own before the class. I thought the beginning assignments were fairly tough.
Math 131 with Professor Taubes was a fantastic class!  Professor Taubes is very dedicated to teaching and made the class very enjoyable.  The material was interesting, and Professor Taubes was always accessible for questions.  I highly recommend taking a class with Professor Taubes!
Topology is pretty cool, and Taubes is great.
The class introduced me to a lot of fun and interesting ideas in topology (especially the second half of the course). The lectures tended to be on the slower and drier side but the problem sets and assignments were more than enough to make up for this.
Topology is an intuitive, beautiful subject! The difficulty of the course and topics covered will vary greatly depending on who is teaching it. But this is an elementary building block for a lot of math so it's a great class to take junior year.
This was a great introduction to algebraic topology; I certainly learned quite a bit.
The material is very interesting and the professor is top-notch.
Veronique is a fair grader, and very helpful in office hours.  Expect to spend alot of time outside of class working on assignments.
This class has a high level of rigor and a difficult pace. Be careful not to take in conjunction with other difficult courses if you want a balanced and healthy life.
The instructor is funny - half the class shows up to lecture to hear her tell stories.
If it doesn't have prof. Godin, which it won't, it may not be as good; topology is cool nonetheless
Topology is great and the class is well taught.
This is a required course for Math concentrators, and the material is certainly interesting to an extent. I'm not sure if you'll want to take the next in the series, though.
It's perfectly fine unless you know too much or too little to be taking the class.
The material in this class is really cool--particularly if you bear through to the second half (algebraic topology). It is a lot of fun, not to mention interesting, and very reasonable in its demands.  I suppose it says a lot that it can get away with assigning harder problems that people will do if they find them interesting. That being said, the class is not for those weak in abstract thinking--indeed, may be quite painful for them.   In short, if math is your game, I recommend this class.
If you feel that the class is getting too hard or random, drop it. There are better 130 level classes (i.e. 137, or differential geometry)
For someone who is interested in taking an upper level undergrad math class this is an excellent place to start.  The material is interesting, the book is good and I enjoyed myself.
beware high abstraction. students from math 23 maybe should be cautios.
Do not take this class on a whim. It is quite demanding, but rewarding if you put in the time.
mcmullen is an incredible professor. his lectures are clear and interesting, his lecture notes are incredibly helpful, and he is very accessible and extremely helpful in office hours. he also covers a lot of information. problem sets were hard but in a good way, not much if any busy work and it really helped to learn the material. take any class he is teaching! but obviously the professor will probably differ from year to year. the material is very interesting, with the first half being very important for math in general, and the second half, algebraic topology, being extremely interesting
This was a beautiful course. Curtis McMullen is brilliant and a superb lecturer, the treatment of algebraic topology was a perfect introduction to a truly fascinating subject. If you're concentrating in mathematics (or just liked Algebra I), this is one of those classes that you absolutely have to take.
This class is very good, but very difficult conceptually and has an extremely heavy workload.
McMullin is brilliant. My one critique of his teaching is that he assumes you are as smart as he is. It may just be the better someone is at math the less capable they are at gauging people's facial expressions (e.g. gaping mouth, furrowed brow and tilted head means we are lost!). If that's the case, let's just say McMullin is really good at math. He also says stuff like "Let's conclude this obvious discussion with one more trivial example," which obviously (and trivially) is really annoying. Other than that he's great. The parts of lecture that I followed were really cool! Basically Topology is awesome. McMullin has amazing online course notes which were really helpful. Though the psets were long and hard, and though McMullin covered two semesters worth of material (seriously dude?!), I would still recommend taking this course. If you are willing to put in the time and effort, it has the potential to take you from someone who is good at math to a mathematician! Just remember, when in doubt, its probably the torus.
Professor McMullen made this class very worthwhile. The material was interesting and challenging at points, but it was never unbearable, and McMullen's lectures did a great deal of clarifying the more difficult parts.
This is an excellent class that should not be delayed for concentrators, especially if taught by Professor McMullen. Really interesting results, well taught, quality homeworks. Strongly recommended to attend every lecture, or you will spend twice as long on the homework. In terms of difficulty, it was comparable to 25b with Gross. If you did really well in that class, you might ask to take 131 concurrently with 122.
McMullen is very dedicated to teaching, and his performance as a lecturer reflects this. I'm not aware of anyone being less than enthusiastic about his teaching.
It's a challenge, but the material is extremely cool, especially if you like geometric thinking. A course for math majors.
First, Prof. McMullen is simply awesome; I would guess that any class he teaches ends up being amazing.  Great lectures, reasonable assignments, great office hours, everything is just fantastic when McMullen teaches the course.  I officially switched my concentration to math this semester, and thanks to McMullen's teaching my passion for math has completely been revamped to a new level.Now for the course itself; topology is probably one of the most mind-expanding course I've taken so far.  It really has so many uses in other courses (in fact, I was using what I learned in this course in all three other math classes I was taking).  The first half of the course isn't too crazy if you are quite familiar with metric topology.  The second half with algebraic topology will feel rather new but elegant once understood.In sum, Math 131 (especially when taught by McMullen) is a must.
Taught by Prof McMullen, the first half of this course is not a bunch of pathologies you need to think about exactly once but rather an interesting chunk of topics, connected during the course to real analysis, complex analysis, commutative algebra, and number theory. (Also, the course began with set theory, had a brief category theory interlude, and ended with algebra. The selection of topics was a lesson in doing mathematics on its own.) The second half of the course was really fascinating and a presumably great, concrete preparation for modern topology. Prof McMullen's lectures are effective and energetic, and he seems to be in touch with the difficulty of his assignments and exams (which are very fair). Also, the meta-mathematical insight that you can gain by paying attention to his style of doing mathematics is great: for example, occasionally concepts are mentioned without extremely precise definition, but that's how math actually happens, so practice is nice.
Prof McMullen is totally awesome. Munkres is an awesome text for the subject. Together, the class is awesome.
With Professor McMullen, this class will probably be more difficult than usual, but you will learn way more than you will in a typical math course. This class is a great introduction to different ways of doing math that you don't typically see in introductory analysis and algebra courses. Overall, an awesome course.
It was a good class! Important stuff to know I guess.
Great class, especially with Emily!  I really started to love math like I didn't before--maybe Emily's category theory perspective and broad approach helped me start putting the pieces together, not sure.  Also, it's fun to imagine gluing shapes together into other shapes, even if the geometrical stuff is sort of a side note.
Great course, definitely take it when Emily is teaching it.
Very interesting material.
It's a standard 100 level math class. If you like the material/the teacher, it'll be good.
The course is somewhat fun and not very hard. The topics offer a new point of view to diverse areas of math that sometimes proves to lead to more concise arguments. I guess it is easily self-studiable, so you might consider skipping it.
Topology is a very cool subject, and this course teaches it well.  Familiarity with group theory is helpful but not necessary.  I recommend this course for anyone interested in pure mathematics.
Emily is a great teacher! Take her classes!
This is an interesting fun course. It is not too hard, but you learn a fair amount. Anything Emily teaches you should take. Not matter what. Take her class.
Lecture was largely unhelpful, because it often felt like Professor Riehl was trying to writing as many theorems on the board per lecture as possible, rather than stress the ideas behind the theorems. As a result, lectures moved extremely fast and were not very helpful in building the kind of intuition required to be successful on the exams/homework. I think the lectures could have been much better if Professor Riehl had cut the material down and did not shy away from the details in the ideas/proofs that she did present. I'd recommend talking with students who have taken the course in order to gain intuition, and then referring to Munkres to get the details.
Emily is a great teacher.
This course will generalize many notions you learn in analysis, and explore in depth their importance and interconnectedness. As a class, it is certainly not one of the most difficult of the math classes here, as long as you have experience with abstract mathematics. It is also a lot of fun, especially if you enjoy visualizing a lot through geometry.
Topology is really cool stuff-some of it's even intuitive!-that everyone interested in math should know. Emily is a great teacher so if she's the professor again, I highly recommend taking the class.
Topology is actually pretty interesting, and you don't realize it until the end. Algebraic topology is cool, and we only cover a little bit to make it remain interesting. There was a little bit of everything in this class, but if you're looking for depth, you won't find it in this class.
Emily Riehl is a quirky but fun lecturer who makes the class lectures interesting.
It's a decent class, and it's a vital introduction to one of the largest topics in mathematics.  Definitely pay attention to the fundamental group.  The book Topology by Munkres can really help if lectures are confusing at all.
My favorite math class this semester. Rewarding, interesting, and not painfully difficult.
It's a very difficult, time-consuming class that can require anywhere from 10-20 hours of work every week. Only take it if you are really interested in learning topology and if the rest of your course load is relatively light. Otherwise, the class does its job by providing a thorough introduction to topology.
Interesting stuff; important to learn.
While lectures could be more precise, the material is very interesting and intuitive and psets / take-homes always give you a better understanding of the material.
Take Math 131 with any professor and take any course taught by Professor Wickelgren.  Can't think of a better recommendation than that.
It's a challenging course. Read Munkres! It helps a lot to explain some of the material that may have been glossed over in lecture.
General topology is really interesting material, and gives you a whole new world of spaces to look at/a new perspective on things in general. As for the class itself: I came into the course with a relatively smaller (theoretical) math background (just Math 23), and I found the course really difficult, both in understanding what's going on and doing the problems. It didn't help that lectures often felt crammed/rushed and not always well-motivated or supplemented with examples. (Textbook, Munkres, is very helpful.) Overall though, I did find the course to be rewarding - perhaps didn't understand everything, but the stuff I did get was pretty cool.
This is a great class (the best math class I've taken at Harvard), and was taught very well. If you found the point-set topology material from earlier classes interesting, you will likely be interested in this as well.
This is a great introductory class to the field of topology. I found the concepts and the problems intriguing.
This class can be very hard. But in the end, it is worth it. Best class I have taken in Harvard yet.
Interesting and manageable. One of the best parts of this course was the people.
I really enjoyed this class... definitely take it if you haven't seen the material before.
This course presents a truly fascinating subject matter; but some of the ideas may be rather tricky.
The material is pretty cool, and essential for a lot of graduate-level math. Professor Lurie is a clear and thorough lecturer.
This course was great, and inspired me once again to continue with math.  The professor is great--his pacing is perfect and he is very good at explaining things.  Near the end of the course he got a little too caught up in details, but his lectures were still understandable.  Jacob Lurie deserves in every way the applause he received on the last day of the class :)
lurie is one of the worst professors i've had at harvard
The class has a strange difficulty curve. The first half, up to the midterm, was pretty easy and didn't require a lot of effort. The second half was extremely painful. This was a combination of the subject matter getting harder and Prof Lurie running out of time in a lot of lectures and skipping the hardest parts of proofs.
Topology is slightly weird, and may seem at times unmotivated (e.g. the separation axioms and metrizability), but it is very useful for other math classes. By the way, if you think you already know some topology, be aware that the class dwells on the basic concepts of point set topology (open, closed, interior, closure) and metric space topology (open balls) for like 2 days, so you'll likely encounter new stuff quite quickly.
Amazing class.  Professor Lurie is a wonderful lecturer and the material is pretty cool.  I'd recommend it at the drop of a hat.
The material is interesting and the textbook is great.  The quality of the lectures and the assignments will of course depend on who is teaching, but regardless you will probably enjoy at least some parts of the course.
Work hard and you will get a lot out of this course.
This class is very important for studying math, since it introduces the ways of rigorous proof different from proofs in other area, i.e. algebra
This course was fast paced, but very manageable. I enjoyed myself thoroughly and learned a lot.
Be ready to work hard, it's useful to form study groups to go through the material and do homeworks, also be careful for the second part of the course - it gets very difficult and requires a lot of time just understanding the lectures and doing the problem sets
The material is very fascinating.
Math 131 is a great course, and the standard math student will probably find it to be a very new subject which carries lots of insights.  The first half of the course is likely nothing particularly new, but the latter half of the course, especially the algebraic topology towards the end is probably novel for the typical sophomore.  Unfortunately, lectures, at least in this year, tended to become muddier as the course progressed, but luckily, this course (along with, most likely, any introductory topology course) is taught using Munkres, the standard intro topology text and an excellent resource for the course.  Math concentrators probably have to take this at some point anyway (unless they skip it for graduate level classes), and those looking for math electives will probably find it a fine choice.
Absolutely the most frustrating class I have ever taken. Problem sets will get progressively more impossible, and exams will kill you. You will learn nothing, because lectures are too fast.
It's quite difficult. And you should practice doing some psets on your own as preparation for the final.
Make a list of all theorems and useful definitions, apart from their proofs and explanations, before the take-home midterm and final. It will save you much rifling.
You don't have to take this course unless you're really interested in Topology. Do yourself and your GPA a favor and don't take this class unless you enjoy spending 15+ hours on topology problem sets.
Interesting material presented by a brilliant professor who is a quite good lecturer. Excellent textbook. Save perhaps a little more motivation (for an intro course) or vigor in lectures, this was a great course.
it's very hard to give make a recommendation because in my experience the character of the upper-level math courses changes quite dramatically with the professors who are teaching them, and I think it's almost certain that the professor for math 131 next year will be different;
Hard.
Take anything that Lam teaches.
Extremely interesting material, but quite challenging problems and covers too much.
Good, basic, introduction to topology.
Topology is fun.
Interesting material, great professor
Take a course - any course - with Professor Lam.
I would only recommend this course to students who plan to study more advanced mathematics. It does not serve as a good introduction to Topology because of its heavy emphasis on Algebraic Topology.
The fact that it is hard is not a good reason to omit it. It is important.
The teacher is in the Starcraft hall of fame - the HALL OF FAME!. Ridiculous. Through his epic gesticulations in class, I caught a glimpse and how ridiculous his Starcraft micro must have been. His apm would have been through the roof.
I guess this class is always roughly the same--lecture and problems all come from munkres. The flavor of this class depends on the professor, ask about lenght of homework, number of exams etc.
One of the better classes in the mathematics department. The material is interesting and the professor is very cool.
Barwick is AMAZING. If he teaches this class next year, TAKE IT! Oh, and, topology is kind of awesome as well.
Plan to work hard, and put a lot of hours into the class, especially if you have never seen any of the material before (like me), but you will learn a whole lot.
The material is fascinating and useful across a lot of mathematics. The philosophy of the class--no exams, flexibility about the work--is refreshing, and lectures are often good. Barwick really cares about teaching, so taking the class with him would be a good choice. But the second half of the course is taught with a nonstandard approach to the material that would be more appropriate for a second or third exposure to algebraic topology.
The material is important for mathematicians, but beware if the professor tries to teach you about sheaves.  You will come out of the course knowing little about algebraic topology.
A great course. Beware, however, that the workload is not ridiculously light as the first few weeks might lead one to believe.
this class is difficult and takes time, but it is incredibly rewarding how much math you learn.
Topology is the best thing about mathematics!
This was probably the best math class I've ever taken. I learned a ton, and really enjoyed doing so.
Clark Barwick is witty, fun, and brilliant. This is exceptionally uncommon for a math professor and therefore an experience not to be missed.
If Professor Barwick is teaching it, you MUST take it!
If you know point-set topology and are only taking the course for the second half, it is probably better to just read the first chapter of Hatcher.
It's a shame you probably can't take it with Barwick ;p.
I loved this course. Really interesting (and fun!) material. Prof. Barwick treats his students like adults who want to learn the material for its own sake; personally, I found this refreshing.
You will learn an incredible amount of mathematics in this class.
It is very difficult but worth it.
Get ready to put a lot of work into this class. It will stretch your brain.
Barwick is truly an outstanding teacher: take anything he offers.
This was a great course to take-- lots of interesting material that is applicable in many fields of mathematics. Professor Barwick was a great lecturer.
Interesting, important material. Engaging professor, who likes what seemed like unnecessary abstraction.
The best aspect of this course was Prof. Barwick.  The material is very, very difficult, so the course will always be difficult as well.  However, it was the presence of Prof. Barwick that made everything so enjoyable, as opposed to what it could have easily been: excruciating.  What I would strongly recommend, in reality, is Prof. Barwick -- any course he teaches is a course worth taking.
Definitely take this course if Professor Barwick is teaching it and you are interested in mathematics.  However, be prepared to work hard.  I would not recommend the course to someone not comfortable with proofs.
Emily lectures very well and the assignments are useful for learning the material.
Emily is awesome, and the material is very interesting.
This course is not easy, but is very rewarding. Definitely keep up with the material each week! There are a lot of good resources for point-set topology online, including lecture notes from other courses, that can be helpful if you're struggling with a particular topic.
This is a really cool course. Topology is fun: visual and mind-blowing, especially algebraic topology towards the end. As usual, the professor is most important, and that's a large part of the reason why this was such a great course. In any case, though, the textbook is nice so whoever teaches it next year, shop it!
Topology I is very fun. The concept is not hard to understand. The objects you'll see in the class are nice.
Good class overall. Emily's style of "picture proofs" or even live demos (how often have you ever seen a live demo in a math class!) really help solidify the concepts.
great material great prof
Topology is really cool and a little different than other fields of maths. It's definitely worth checking out.
If Emily's teaching this class, take it. With Emily, this was the most painless math class I've taken at Harvard. This is one of these classes whose material you need to know if you're doing any kind of math, so unless you've already seen this stuff before you'll probably need to take it. It's pretty standard stuff, the material is not difficult to process and fun to work with. Just do it!
Not too much work, fun material, well taught by Emily
homeworks r hard, exams are t/f justification and not that bad, emily is kool
Super interesting material and really well-structured tests. Not a super intense class but you learn s bunch. Emily is one of the better lecturers I've had in the department, too.
Emily Riehl is a very good instructor and makes the material fun and interesting.
This course is a very useful introduction to topology, and Professor Riehl is a very good lecturer who will make sure that the class is understanding the material with periodic sanity checks.  If you keep up with the material, this class will be very good.
Emily is an incredible lecturer. I have never had an instructor in math that was simultaneous so approachable, comprehensible, and enthusiastic about teaching. I really didn't think that topology would be a branch of math I would care about so much until after taking this course. It has definitely been one of my favorites in the math department.
My favorite math class I have taken at Harvard.  Emily is an amazing lecturer, and the psets, while difficult, are very instructive.  She makes a very difficult topic accessible.  Highly recommended to anyone with an interest in proof-based math.
