This is a great course for learning differential geometry--not so abstract as Math 132 but still somewhat proof-based and interesting.  It's great for physicists who want exposure to differential geometry before doing general relativity.
It's a solid way to gain some familiarity with computing the tensor calculus and curvatures required to do GR, but otherwise hard to say what the long term takeaway is of computing mean curvatures and riemnann tensors of random surfaces. The material is fairly uninspiring, but it's hard to do both elegant theory and get hands-on practice.
Gorgeous math (how surfaces curve in higher dimensions) presented with a focus on physical interpretation. The psets are engaging and elegant and Adam is very warm and accessible! Really enjoyed this course.
If you are really looking for an intense, thorough treatment, take the graduate level course. Otherwise, if you are looking for an accessible, well-taught course that provides motivation and intuition for the big questions of the field as well as covers the historical background of the field, take this course.
This is a good class for building intuition from the ground up on the material: the computations really do help make sense of the material. Even though the class moved rather slowly, I think it's a class worth taking.
A good class on the subject. The only problem is that you might not like the subject. I think this class is best for people with background in 25 and 23 or people interested in physics.
This is a very fun class in which you learn tools to tackle problems above curves and surfaces. By the end of the class, some touch into abstract manifolds was also presented. Be expected to do hard work in calculation, esp. taking derivatives.
Fairly computationally intensive, but enjoyable and informative nonetheless.
It's a decently good course, but I'm not convinced that I learned enough useful things for this to have been worth it. It could have been harder and faster - Shlomo's version seems to cover it in more depth.
Perhaps because new notation was used fairly loosely, I didn't find that I understood new concepts very well after Professor Collins's lectures. For the most part I didn't feel like I developed any intuition for what the objects we studied really were until I struggled through a not-very-enlightening textbook for a long time by myself and discussed with others in the class.
I recommend this class to anyone who might have any interest in the field of geometry---it's somewhat different from most other math classes in that its concepts often are physically intuitive, and I think you gain some sense of being able to "visualize" math from this class.
