Don't stress about it too much. As long as you pay attention in class, everything should make sense
easy class if you do all the work
This class requires quite a bit of your time, but it is very doable and there is lots of help.
This is class is wonderful and the tf's and ca's are great. There is so much help available with this class, you just have to take advantage of it if you want to do well.
This course is very helpful to someone who needs to sharpen up their math skills. Take it.
Is a really good class to take if you are uncertain on your math skill level. Has great instructors and course assistants. The faculty was very helpful, and was always willing to take the time to help a student.
This is a great class to understand calculus better.
Good course if you want a comprehensive introduction to Calculus.
Take it, establishes a good foundation
This course takes up a lot of time
Great intro to calc! Get ready to do ALOT of math though!
This class is very difficult, however it is always good to have a solid background in calculus and this class will definitely provide you with a solid background.
I find that math is the hardest subject for me to understand and master; I found this class extremely helpful and I am now more confident in my abilities and am looking forward to taking Mb, 1b, and perhaps 18 and 21.
I would not take this class unless it is a requirement for a future concentration.
This class is a good class to renew your knowledge of calculus while also making you responsible for mastering the materials through the means of 2 pests a week, gateway tests and midterms.
If you don't know anything you will need to dedicate a lot of time.
This class isn't bad at all. I feel confident moving forward within the math department after taking this. I got a solid foundation of basic topics and I know this will help me in the future. The most annoying part is the constant psets that felt tedious at times.
It is a superb class for anyone who has a shadow of a doubt in their mathematical skills. The class worked to fill in any and all holes in my mathematical foundation; I feel far more confident continuing with my math education.
If you do not feel your math skills are that strong this is a nice course to boost your confidence and master the skills necessary to move onto further courses.
Take this class if you have no calculus background. I was not sure whether i should take Math 1a at first but am glad i took this class.
Take this class if you don't feel 100% confident in your pre-calculus skills. If you need that extra review before delving into calculus, this class is for you!
It's an easy class if your do all the homework.
Be prepared for three problem sets a week, and class 5 days a week.
This is a great course if you want an introduction to calculus and are a bit hesitant about math. They make the concepts very manageable.
Even if you think you are above this course level (or would rather tell your friends you're in Math 1a), this is a great course to solidify your understanding of basic calculus.  If you have any doubt in your math confidence, this course will eliminate that.
If you want a really strong foundation for calculus take this class, I took two years of calculus before this and still found this course rewarding but if you already have a decent foundation, take 1A.
To take 1a instead if they can handle it.
I would suggest this course to anyone who is looking to get a more solid understanding in calculus.  Everything is explained in great detail, and even though I had taken calculus in high school, I find it helpful to take everything step by step again.  I now feel like I have a much better foundation to build off of.
If you are not totally comfortable with the idea of taking high-level college math, MA is probably the course for you!
Though the material in this course is easy, there are a ton of assignments - be prepared for three psets a week that take around 2 hours or more each and a multitude of gateway exams and pre midterms/pre finals/etc.
I had a weak math background in High School, this class was my first exposure to actually understanding the material rather than merely knowing how to compute problems, so it was definitely worth taking for that reason. It's worth having a look around to know which TF's, CA's and Workshop people are explain things best, as they're certainly not created equally.
Make sure you use office hours
I was very torn between math ma and math 1a.  After this semester, I feel like the set up of this class allowed for a mastery of the material that the pace of 1a wouldn't have allowed.
Make sure you reach out for extra help!!!!
I really really really recommend this course if you're a humanities person just trying to take care of this gen ed and you're not the best with math. They're so supportive and there are so many resources that it's impossible to fail. Plus, it starts off with the most basic of concepts from algebra and whatnot, which is stuff we all have learned at some point, and then build from there, so it's easy to follow along if you keep up with the course. I never had to do reading for the course, even though it was suggested, which gave me time for reading for other classes. Each pset took maybe 2 hours, and you can mostly start and finish those in the MSC, and go to office hours the next day if you have questions. Then, there are plenty of practice tests to take for each real exam so that helps with studying and solidifying the concepts. I definitely recommend this course.
This class is good to get a slow start into calculus.
I enjoyed learning about exponential functions and see how it can be applicable in every day life.
Math Ma is a very easy way of knocking out a math requirement. It is very painless and the teaching is also pretty great.
Prepare for a lot of work that will ultimately help you in the long run.
Math Ma is a great course if you would like to take math in college but do not have a strong background in the subject. It covers many topics well, and is focused on providing building blocks and tools in order to prepare you for subsequent studies and applications of math. It is great as a stand-alone course to satisfy requirements or brush up on your math knowledge, or as a gateway to further math studies.
As far as math courses go it's definitely the easiest but there is a lot of homework and time spent in class and workshops.
Take it if you want clear understanding and a strong foundation
This class will be a good transition class for students from taking high school to college level math classes. An advice would be to take advantage of all the math resources at your disposal, and before midterms and finals, take ALL the posted exams because the questions will be very similar.
Prepare to do several, several p-sets. Keep in mind however, that those p-sets will help you greatly during test time and will make sure that you know the material.
This is a great introduction to calculus! If you feel uneasy about your calculus skills take this class! They do a great job teaching and explaining the reasoning behind the math (which I never learned in high school).
If you have taken calculus before, this class is going to be rather easy for you.  A lot of it will probably be a repeat for you.  BUT you need to remember that this class is actually designed for people who HAVEN'T taken calculus already.  So please, please, please don't complain that the class is moving too slowly, because odds are that you've just had more experience than your peers and they are struggling to keep up.  There is such a wide variety of backgrounds coming into this course that it must be very hard to cater to everyone.  But the people who've already taken a similar class pressure the TFs to speed up and it is very unfair.
This was easily the best class I took freshman fall. I learned a ton about both conceptual and practical calculus applications. The TFs are incredible, especially Melody Chan. The TFs REALLY want you to understand and learn, and they will always be there to help when you need them. FANTASTIC class.
I would likely recommend this class depending on how comfortable the said student felt with their math placement which in my case did a good job in finding the right fit for me.
anyone who wants to study math should try this course
It is perfect if you want to fulfill your GE and is a reasonable class if you are also taking a tough class schedule
This class is amazing if this is the right level for you. The pace of the class is great and the material covered is really great. I left with a stronger foundation in math. This course tackles functions, limits, derivatives, logarithms, among other topics. The homework is beneficial and there is help everywhere if you need it.
Only take this class if you want to pursue a career in math
No unless they have to take it.
Spice up your algebra skills, your going to need them !
If you don't have to take it, then don't take it.
your success on this course really does depend on the strength of your TF. Mine was terrible. That said, there are other resources to help you in the struggle that is this course: a math study center, effective and friendly course assistants (other college students), Wolfram Alpha, collaboration with other students. The course's one strength, I think is its accommodation for students who don't do well on exams..there are multiple attempts to help students pass including revisits and a curve if you score above a certain percent. Too bad this willingness to help students doesn't translate to better structured teaching and p-sets.
I would tell them that this course requires a lot of work but if they love math, then they will enjoy it.
It's a pretty easy math course, but 3 problem sets a week can be time consuming.
I did not enjoy the class. There are frequent exams and problem sets.
This course will provide you with an adequate base to move forward into further math courses.
Three p-sets a week. Make sure you get a good section leader. Nasko is a good choice. I hear Julianna is great.
If you are at all unsure if you should take 1a or MA, choose MA.
Take advantage of office hours and the Study Center.
Overall: If you have to take it, definitely take it. If you like math, definitely take it. It's a good class and you will learn calculus well.Section: Hit or miss with preceptors, but I happened to get a really good one. She was really kind and good at teaching but still keeping us entertained.Problem Sets: Yes, it's annoying that you have one due every class day. No, they're not all easy and short. But they will help you learn calculus, and if you take them seriously, you will do well on the exams. Not hugely time consuming, but they will eat up part of your day every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.Exams: They can be tricky, but for the most part, they follow the problem sets and problems from the textbook.
Take another.
It's a great course to take if math has always made you cringe, and you want to give it another chance before throwing it out the window!
it is a different way of interpreting and applying math
College math is much harder than high school math. If you are debating taking Math Ma or Math 1a and are not a great math student take Math Ma.
This class really improved my udnerstanding of math. I'm better at math now than I ever have been before, and my confidence has been greatly improved. The best part of this class is the amount of help available for the students - the CA's have hours regularly in the Science Center every night Sunday through Friday from 7 to 10:30 at night. Often they stay even longer to help. Always ask for help, because the CA's and TF's at Harvard are specifically chosen because they are great at explaining to beginners.
The material is not what is hard about this class.
This class really wasnt bad. I didn't take calc in high school and I understood it better than a lot of the athletes.
That the pace picks up as the course goes on, so stay on top of your work.
Meets every day and tons of assignments and tests, takes a lot of time. But if you need a math requirement, you gotta do it
Be prepared to spend a lot of time for this class. There are a lot of tests, extra classes, and a lot of homework assignments.
The course was taught in a way that helped me to understand calculus in a different way than I did in high school. It strengthened my core mathematical skills as well.
This course is awesome! I really understand calculus and why we even use it. The pace of the course is perfect to  allow you to gain a great understanding of concepts while keeping you from getting bored. Workshops seem unnecessary but the homework and exams and are very relevant to what you've learned. There are no surprises if you really understand the concepts, which means that you don't have to remember tons of formulas. I've really enjoyed my experience with this course.
The class is structured well, and is full of resources. Overall, I am glad I switched out of 1a to Ma, as I was able to understand the subject material much better here.
spare time for it
If you want a taste of calculus, take this class.  Calc was one of the things on my high school bucket list that I never got around to, and Math Ma was the perfect course I could take to prove myself that college math wasn't scary and impossible.  I had fun, learned a lot, and remembered why I used to like math.
This is the right class for you if you have not taken calculus in high school. I am sure I have recieved a concrete background with calculus and i feel ready to move on.
The course itself isn't bad. But because they don't teach you through actual notes, it is a little hard if you don't have a background in calc.
OMG GUYS. Just take Math 1a.
My background coming in to this couse was AP Calulus (in which I learned nothing), and an advanced trignometry/statistics course. I chose to do Math Ma instead of Math 1a because I wanted to build a strong math foundation that I could then continue building off of in my later years of college. While I probably could have struggled through 1a, and been fine, I wanted to actually understand what was going on and the reasons why. Math Ma was that course.
the class is amazing!!I love Juliana's classs!!
Great, personalized learning experience.
You need to seek out how to take the problems that you're given and further the concepts on your own. On the problem sets it seems like the concepts are pretty easy but on the test the problems are  not always the same.
TAKE maths ma. It is amazing, and fun and the maths is not difficult and even when it does get challenging, you will have the biggest support system with your TA, section leaders, maths study center. The class will teach you a lot.. and you'll certainly have fun.
Prepare to dedicate additional hours to this class. Apart from class sections which meet Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, there are additional mandatory workshops on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Although at times the problem sets seemed to include information that was briefly touched upon in class, the exams fairly tested the material that was taught. The math team truly wanted everyone to succeed in the course and all instructors and TFs were readily available for help throughout the course.
Expect to spend a lot of time on the work at home.
Take this class and get a tutor!
If you are apprehensive about calculus, this course will ensure you are comfortable.
my teacher was not helpful so if one doesnt work for you, then switch out
Requires practice and thorough understanding of the concepts.
This is a great math class to take. It makes you fully understand every concept and be able to do well on the exam because of your knowledge! Also the classes are very interactive
It seems like the problem sets and section did not prepare me for the tests.
This is a great math course because there are a lot of resources to help you learn and the material is really reinforced so that you master the material and feel confident about what you've learned.
It is really hard, but you learn a lot.
This class will really teach you the fundamentals of calculus. However, it goes really fast so be ready to learn.
This class requires a high level of commitment: it meets every day; there are 3 problem sets due a week (for which you should visit the study center on weeknights); and there are a ton of assessments (2 gateways, 2 calculus concepts tests, pre-midterm, midterm, pre-final, and final). There is a lot of work involved. That being said, the class is not overly difficult, and it helps you gain a deep and thorough understanding of pre-calculus and calculus.
If you're not feeling right about Math 1a, TAKE THIS COURSE! The teaching staff were super helpful and approachable, the pace is very manageable and you could do yourself a great service by easing into college math this way. [Consider it's only one extra semester of math in the long run, because Ma + Mb = 1a.]
Dont be afraid to reach out for help when you need it. We all need help at some point, and dont be too proud to admit it.
This class is helpful for learning precalculus and calculus concepts, but it's difficult if math isn't your thing.
