Math 114 gives a good introduction to several topics in real analysis. The one thing to note about this class is that it is fairly difficult, especially compared to other undergraduate math courses. However, Prof. Gardiner was pretty understanding and receptive to student feedback, and the class will be manageable given sufficient time.
I felt like this course gave me a good introduction to measure theory and integration in its first half, but the second half was disappointing--I feel like the material covered in lectures on Fourier series was in itself inadequate for some of the problems on the problem sets, and we weren't properly directed to textbooks that could help. We also didn't have problem sets in the last few weeks, so that I didn't really feel like I had a satisfactory understanding of the material and its implications.
Meaure theory is horrendously boring.  Integration is important to know, but not particularly inspiring material.  Fourier analysis refreshing.  After that it wasn't too obvious where the course was going.  The course is not too hard.  Very manageable.
Take this course if you really want to understand what the heck people mean when they say "X has measure 0". While the course's topics certainly vary with instructor, the Fourier analysis and Banach spaces were not really covered in enough depth to be useful. Overall, take it for the measure theory; Daniel Gardiner's lectures in this section are brilliantly clear.
You'll learn a lot about the techniques of analysis. However, I had a few reservations about the way the class was structured.There were no psets during the last few weeks of the class, and I find psets to be the most useful way to internalize the material. This was especially inconvenient as the final exam almost exclusively tested material for which we had not received a pset. This lack of psets seems to be a one-time event though.I also did not like the format of the midterm; I had a good grasp of most of the material, but I couldn't answer all of the questions within the time limit. The curve was generous, but I prefer exams that test knowledge over speed.These are relatively minor reservations, and overall I would recommend the class, as you will learn a lot of useful analysis. The lectures are also very engaging.
be ready.
This course does a good job of starting with fundamental building blocks and using them to rigorously build up the theory of integration and fourier analysis.  Different instructors have the freedom to emphasize different aspects of analysis, so it might be a good idea to check with past students about what specific professors like to emphasize.  Dr. Gardiner tended to emphasize the measure theory aspect of the course.
The material itself is interesting and handy.
Real analysis is a very cool field in its own right, and also very applicable to other areas (CS/Stats/physics). Take it! Course organization this year could have been better, but Prof. Gardiner is very good at explaining things and willing to take the time to talk with you.
This class, though tough, covers a lot of interesting material (especially near the end). McMullen's teaching is very good and made up for some of the other lacking aspects of the course.

The problem sets were often difficult, and rarely could you do them without help from the CA's or other students. Personally, I don't think a problem is instructive it is so hard that you have to get hints every step of the way. 

This class also assumes a good deal of familiarity with basic topology and analysis (presumably taught in Math 23/25). This will be a very difficult class if you do not have at least that level of preparation.
This class is pretty challenging. Try to work hard, spend time on assignments, and read the text book.
This class was fantastic, and I'd recommend any class with professor McMullen. He really cares about the students and invests a lot of effort into the lectures and lecture notes. It covered many foundational areas of measure theory and functional analysis. There were also lots of interesting, tricky problems.
Great class. Mcmullen is amazing, as always. Although it's an undergrad course, surprisingly lot is covered.
Measure theory is a good subject to know. Developing the Lebesgue integral at the beginning can be slightly tedious, but the second half of the course is a lot of great applications and interesting material on Banach spaces. Professor McMullen's lectures were very well organized and easy to understand. Homework sets usually consisted of 6-8 problems, 4-6 of which were quite quick to solve, and 1-2 very difficult problems that required clever solutions. I do feel like the challenging problems made me better and thinking of clever tricks.
Great lectures, amazing professor, coherent and challenging problem sets. If McMullen is teaching any course, just take it.
Interesting and difficult material. Professor McMullen has a talent for making the abstract parts interesting/comprehensible. Be ready for some tough stuff, though.
When McMullen teaches this course, it is harder than usual.
The course material is very interesting and the instructor was very good, but the class was a bit too difficult.  The pace was very quick and falling behind by a little proved to be fatal.
This class was very difficult. The most inconvenient part was that we had very little feedback (other than on assignments) before the add/drop date, so by the time we took a test and knew how we were doing, it was too late to do anything about it. Professor McMullen takes his classes seriously and seems to underestimate our understanding of the material and you need to be prepared for that.
Take this class if McMullen teaches it again. The lectures and assignments were incredible!
Prof. McMullen will teach you more than anyone else in the department, but he'll make you work your ass off for it. Be warned.
If McMullen is teaching this course, it will be very hard, but you will learn a ton. I would definitely take it if he is teaching.
If McMullen is teaching this class, it will be taught very well, but the course material will be very difficult - make sure to keep up with everything, or you will get lost.  The course material is very interesting though.
Professor McMullen is an excellent lecturer, and his problem sets are strange but intriguing. However, I have heard that he is very inflexible when it comes to accommodating students' schedules. He refuses to offer extensions to students who have legitimate excuses, and he is often very ``Curt'' in his emails to students. Compassion toward students is an essential virtue of a good professor, and in taking Math 114 with Professor McMullen, I learned how not to communicate with students in the future. Nonetheless, I would highly recommend this course to anybody who wants a rigorous and complete introduction to real analysis.
Prof. McMullen is a fantastic lecturer and really brought analysis to life in this class. He does have a tendency to move quickly in lecture, so make sure you're paying attention!
Great introduction to functional analysis!
Just make sure to stay on top of the material.  Also, don't push your psets to the last minute.
McMullen is a great professor. This class was challenging but I learned a ton.
Highly recommend. Prof. McMullen is a great instructor. His lectures're very clear, elegant. The part I like the most is that he would give his intuitions about those abstract math topics, which is very useful if one wants to understand this subject deeply; and he would relate this course to many other fields, e.g. dynamic systems, number theory, physics.
If McMullen is teaching this course take it! It is a great class if you enjoyed any of the real analysis from 23/25. McMullen cares about his students, is an amazing lecturer, gives interesting psets and the final exam/midterm are definitely reasonable.
An important and useful class to take. I came out with mixed feelings about Lurie - he usually did a good job motivating things within a lecture, but he was a little disorganised. He's a real genius though, and although analysis isn't his thing, he provoked deep thought on the subject sometimes.
I think mileage may vary significantly, but overall I did enjoy this course, and you will likely learn a lot from taking it.  That said, there are perhaps other and maybe better ways of learning real analysis at Harvard, and you should not leap blindly into this course as it is a significant endeavor.
I believe the course changes substantially with different professors, but it is a solid introduction to real analysis.  It can really be taken at any time since the only prerequisite is basic analysis found in 23/25 and there are very few other courses at Harvard, besides higher level real analysis courses, that rely crucially upon it. But it is certainly a core, fundamental piece of material that every math major should learn.
It's difficult to evaluate a class whose instructor changes yearly. I would recommend taking any class taught by Lurie. However, I did not find the material in this class to be particularly exciting. It's a fine way to fulfill your analysis requirement if you are concentrating in math, but that's about it.
Real Analysis is something you have to grit your teeth and learn sooner or later. It may not be as sexy as other math classes you take, but it's certainly good to know, especially if you want to do math later in life. If you're the rare person who already knows he likes analysis, you'll be really happy. Otherwise, it depends (as always for math courses) on the professor. If Professor Lurie is teaching, you'll be pretty happy. That guy's a great lecturer and one of the smartest humans I've seen.
This course covers really fantastic material. It can also be brutal.
Prof Lurie is a genius. Also, he gives great motivation for the content you learn in the class.
Lurie is great.  The material isn't the most interesting every, but if you're a math major you need to know it.
Lurie's the best! Analysis is ok too
Jacob Lurie is fantastic. Better, he can actually teach. He approached Math 114 with a great deal more rigor than I believe is typically applied (which I enjoyed immensely), so you should take high workload/difficulty ratings with a grain of salt. Nevertheless, Measure Theory is fascinating if you're fond of analysis, and, in my opinion, less analysis-y than most analysis fields (if, like me, you're an algebraist at heart).
Lurie is a wonderful lecturer.
This has been my best class at harvard so far! Professor Lurie is an amazingly clear and responsive lecturer who knows the material inside and out and conveys it with elegance and extreme clarity. However I hope the Math department doesn't make him teach any more undergrad classes, as one should not waste a genius like his with teaching undergraduates. I feel that every minute he spent devoting to this class was depriving the mathematical world substantially. So if he teaches any more classes, you should definitely take them, but I hope they don't make him teach anymore for the sake of mathematics
Jacob Lurie is a fantastic professor. His lectures made this course. However, be prepared to work as measure theory and Banach spaces are highly nontrivial. That being said, I definitely recommend this course to anyone interested in learning some analysis.
If Lurie is teaching this, take it for sure. It's a great ride. Really just take anything Lurie teaches.
This is a great class if you want to learn the foundations of functional analysis, and get the tools necessary to study any analysis at a higher level. Jacob Lurie is an excellent professor, and is an exceptionally clear lecturer.
The problem sets are a fair amount of work, but you learn a lot.
The best course I've ever taken at Harvard. The concepts are incredibly beautiful, and they have incredible application to Physics, especially stat mech and quantum. Real Analysis is completely visual.As for how the material was taught, Lurie is a clear and patient lecturer who frequently asks questions to the class. But the best point of the class by far was the problem sets - 4 meaningful problems that both form a reasonable challenge and teach volumes about the material - what more can a student ask for? These short and sweet psets were like crack for the brain.The only regret about this course is the level of the people taking it. Watch out, because many are 55 alumns, juniors, or seniors - though 23b or 25b is really all you need to enjoy the course thoroughly. The material also didn't seem connected at times - that's Lurie's fault; he tends to motivate topics more locally and less globally. But this made studying for the exam more fun, as you got to piece the topics together with glee, forming your own castle in the sky; your own interpretation of how everything fit together.As a whole, I am left in a stupor, amazed at how much I have learned - and how cool those things were. Math 114 convinced me to become a math concentrator.
The course material turned out to be interesting, despite expectations, largely due (I think) to Prof Lurie's selection and ordering of topics. He is a great course architect, so to speak. Individual lectures are quite good and concepts are motivated well. Do be sure to pay attention, though: often the chalk is nowhere near the board during the revelation of a key insight of a proof.
The material in this class is important and interesting, but be careful because Prof. Siu can make the class quite difficult!  The problem sets were long and taxing, and the exams in this class were some of the most difficult/long exams I've ever taken.
Siu round 2 was just as insane as Siu round 1 (55 last year). The pace picked up ridiculously after 7 weeks, and the class became very difficult. But we covered a lot of material, and had fun fun fun!
"This course turns boys into men", a previous student once said on the CUE, and this is especially true if Yum-Tong Siu is teaching the class. Be prepared to work a lot, and DON'T SKIP WORK
The material is quite interesting, non-intuitive, and useful for a broad range of applied and pure math.
Professor Siu is very knowledgeable, but the assignments and midterms are extremely difficult. Be certain that you definitely have a solid grasp of proof-based analysis.
This was not an easy class, but an enjoyable one. Professor Siu is great.
Its a good course with useful content, but only take it if you want to learn the material.
The material is amazing.
The difficulty of this class will greatly depend on the professor who's teaching it. Prof. Yau definitely made the class high-paced but accesible.
the material is important, both to physics and mathematics, but maybe not as beautiful as other subjects.
It's a very good class in terms of the material and teaching, but can be quite demanding in terms of time commitment. The instructor seems more concerned about covering the whole story, which is important, than the pace of the course and how students understand the material.
Material is difficult but interesting, and Siu's tests were far too long for the alloted time.
It's difficult, but you learn a lot.
McMullen's teaching makes this course very attractive. For one passionate about its topic it should be a treasure, for one not it could be quite boring, but the professor's mastery at least partially compensates it.
It requires a lot of work and dedication, and is only for those who have a very good understanding of basic real analysis.
It's a great class and the material is fascinating.  A must-take.
This was absolutely the best class I ever took at Harvard. No math concentrator should leave Harvard without taking a course from McMullen.
Take only when Prof. McMullen is teaching.
Professor McMullen is the best.
Only take it if you are interested in the material and willing to spend a lot of time on the problem sets.
The course was excellently taught, but even if the prerequisites on the catalogue indicate otherwise (only real analysis 112 and 113 for maturity), I do not recommend it as one of your first few math courses.
This class is difficult, but you will get a lot out of it if you put in the effort.
Any math concentrator should know the material in this course and it is presented in an excellent manner by Professor McMullen.
As with all math courses, by far the most important determinant of quality is professor, and so just follow the good professors. On the other hand, if it's a good professor, take 114, because it's incredibly important and fun stuff. (Of course, your call to choose between 212a and 114)
