The material -- abstract algebra -- is very important in mathematics and has many applications. It's also a very interesting subject.
Useful and cool stuff for people intersted in math.
It's a very interesting class.  Unfortunately it will not be taught by Professor De Sole, so I'm not sure exactly how it will be.
This class is like vegetables.  If you like them, that's great.  Even if you don't, you still gotta take it.
The class is really interesting, for its own sake. If you are a physics student, there are more important math classes to take than this one.
Learn about Galois Theory!
Take only if you want to learn about Galois theory.  I would only recommend to mathematics concentrators.
It's Galois theory. They all tell me it's very important.
Be prepared to work hard
I would definitely recommend the course if Mazur was teaching it again, and if the student that I was advising was willing to work hard.
The material is beautiful, but psets could be routine and boring.
Galois theory is an important class.
Only take this course for concentration requirement.
Only take a course taught by Dennis Gaitsgory if you have a lot of time and focus to put into it. If you have a serious interest in math, you can probably get a lot out of his teaching.
Under Professor Gaitsgory, the course covers a lot of material very thoroughly and quickly.  It's very well taught, and you learn a lot.  However, the breadth and depth of topics make it quite a lot of work.  I understand that it generally is not nearly as much work when other professors teach it.
Math 123 was the first time in 2 years at Harvard that my best effort wasn't good enough.  Dennis Gaitsgory is ridiculously difficult, and it really hurt that we didn't have a text to go from.  However, we did learn a lot.  The last difficulty was that when the TF took the class, they focused on different things, so he struggled with the class as well.
While 122 is a very friendly, gentle introduction to the main actors in algebra, (dabbling with eensy-weensy groups, making the acquaintance of rings, etc.), in 123 you really step things up and take a more hard-nosed approach to the subject, focusing on commutative rings and fields. "Stuff" gets real, one might say.The material covered is extensive - this term we mostly looked at tensoring up, Galois theory, ring spectra and localization, and representation theory - but it is definitely sequential, coherent, and totally manageable. Personally, it changed my perspective on algebra, just because in introducing all these nifty gadgets like the tensor product and localization, it allows you to examine objects like modules over a ring and say much more interesting, deep things about them than you would think to be possible, given the ridiculous generality of their definitions! Honestly, it's freaking crazy how much rich inner structure there is to these kinds of objects, which you would not suspect from their definitions, and 123 really brought that to light, which made me a total algebra fanboy. So totally take it, especially if it's being taught by Gaitsgory.Actually, on that note, for people wondering what Gaitsgory was like as a professor, I have nothing but good news for you. He's an awesome lecturer, assignments and exams are pretty long and pretty tough, but he grades everything really easily. I'm pretty sure everyone got an A, and not because we're all total geniuses either. But yeah, Gaitsgory isn't all that big about examples, is big on commutative diagrams and universal properties, and all those other goodies that smack of higher math. Good fun.Basically, 123 was a blast, and you should definitely take it, or any classes which Gaitsgory teaches.
The class varies a lot depending on the instructor. If Gaitsgory is teaching it again take it, but be prepared to work really hard. Homework (10 problems that must be typed every week) takes 20+ and more. The level of the class is such that the students are mostly from Math 55, many others dropped the class throughout the semester.
Be prepared to work...hard. But you will learn a lot of cool algebra, and Gaitsgory is a neat guy. Go to his office hours!
Take this class if Professor Gaitsgory is teaching it. He is the man. Your life is going to be consumed by this class but he is the greatest man alive. He is just super super awesome. Don't miss taking a class with him. Don't take this class if you are not ready to spend a lot of time on cool abstract algebra!!
This course is very much defined by who teaches it. This year, Professor Gaitsgory's 123 was more abstract and probably more difficult than most other years. Whoever teaches it, Math 123 is strongly recommended.
To do mathematics (or even proper computer science), you must know algebra. Take it!
The class was definitely difficult and challenging (my hardest course this semester), which I think was Gaitsgory's intention. This class is much different than in other years because of the professor, so most of what is said here won't apply generally. We covered material really quickly, and I would say too quickly. We spent a very short amount of time on Galois theory, and never even touched on it's main application regarding solutions to quintic polynomials. It seems that his goal was breadth - just to get through as much material as possible - and not cover any area in depth. Also, he tends to skip over important parts of proofs in class that he thinks are trivial, but he does encourage people to ask a lot of questions if they're confused (which is really good), so it ends up being the student's responsibility to stop him if he does end up skipping important bits. Overall, the "style" of this course was not what I expected (I was hoping for a solid, deep understanding instead of a broad survey). However, I can't deny that the material was definitely interesting and the workload challenging. Probably not for people who aren't math majors.
Dennis Gaitsgory.  These two words alone could summarize the extensive workload, insane difficulty, and high levels of stress induced by this course.  In one word the course is even easier to describe: AMAZING!  If you want to learn math, any course will suffice.  But if you want to learn to think like a mathematician, then this course (or any course with Gaitsgory I would presume) is necessary.  And trust me, with the amount of problems you do and the time you spend on this class, you will not forget anything you learn.  This course really will change your life!
This is a very interesting class covering fundamental results in Group Theory, Galois Theory, Commutative Algebra, and Representation Theory. It is abosutely necessary in order to dive deeper into Abstract Algebra.
the tests are easier than the homework!
- great course and fascinating material, but the student ought enjoy abstract thought
The material is very interesting, and Prof. Mazur is a great lecturer.
This class does to some extent continue where 122 left off, but the feeling is very different.  In 122, we generally proved results and immediately used them to further results, and eventually died everything together by using topics that at first glance were far afield to prove important results about things we studied at the very start of the semester.  123 by comparison was much less cohesive.  We often proved results which never showed up again in any way, making it extremely difficult to keep in mind everything we had learned.  My general feeling was that I could follow all the details and the big picture, but that everything in between was a big fuzzy area.  Some more motivation or applications would have helped tremendously.
Galois theory is fascinating material from many perspectives, and I don't regret taking the class. I did experience more difficulty with it than I thought I would, and the class made me lean away from this kind of mathematics and towards physics, geometry and modeling. I am amiable to abstraction, but this material caused fewer moments of deep excitement or insight than I've had with other mathematics. Personal taste, of course. It'll vary a lot by instructor.
Representation theory/Galois theory are pretty fun, but they won't blow your mind. Of course, they are important pieces of mathematics that you need to know for the more interesting courses. I bet the course will be quite different when Gaitsgory teaches it next year, so shop the course and decide if it's for you.
The difficulty and the workload are very reasonable. An easier course or a lighter workload would have been negative.
necessary and interesting material for mathematics
Math 123 is a clumsy and oafish introduction to a beautiful subject. Mazur complicates even very simple ideas so lecture isn't very useful because Artin and Lang and even Cox do a much better job explaining ideas than Mazur does. Additionally, the psets were boring and tedious.
If you're interested in math, the material covered in the class is interesting and very worth knowing. The course can vary quite a bit depending on the professor, but you will leave with a thorough understanding of basic Galois Theory as well as an assortment of other topics.
123 is quite difficult, but Galois theory turns out to be quite satisfying, as you spend weeks building a theory from the ground up which turns out to have amazing results.
It will make you hate math. It is ridiculously difficult, mind-numbingly boring, and completely useless - every third grader knows the quadratic formula, and that's about all you are going to learn.
Difficult, harder than 122, not as applicable. Interesting material in its own right, but perhaps not worth the sacrifice. Well taught. All the people who do much below the mean in 122 don't take it, so you're left with a very challenging class of people who did well in 122 augmented by a good number of 55ers who take it, which exacerbates the difficulty.
Galois Theory is confusing at first. Hang in there. Don't get behind on the problem sets, you'll regret it if you do.
Form study groups early on, as there will be at least one topic that is more intuitive to the people around you than it is to you. Mazur's lecture style very well-suited to the material but not always to learning styles of the students. Take advantage of office hours if you notice this, as his style in office hours is much more individually tailored.
Definitely take this class if you are a math major. Also, Mazur is a very great professor and his lectures are awesome. Take a math class with him if possible. Galois theory is also a great extension of the things you may have learned in Math 122.
Moderately easy material, but sometimes a bit abstract. Some problems were interesting - most were not particularly challenging.
Its very interesting material (and very important).
Gaitsgory is a genius. In the words of Prof. Kronheimer, a class taught by Gaitsgory is about 1.7 times more difficult than the same class taught by anyone else. Yet, one feels a great sense of accomplishment and growth by the end of the term. Grading is fair, so don't let that prevent you from taking the class (with Gaitsgory, that is). Unfortunately, it seems that Cotton-Clay will be teaching the algebra series (or at least 122) next year. Enroll with caution.
This stuff seems to be pretty important to being a math major. You should learn it! And if you work at it and don't fall behind it's not too bad.
It's a large amount of work/time, especially if you're coming from 122, because the pace tends to cater towards the 55-ers, some of whom are very quick. Grades are forgiving though (extra credit).
Gaitsgory's rendition of Math 123 is great, especially if one likes an abstract approach, and loves to use tensor products.
This class is awesome and Professor Gaitsgory is awesome!!  It is fast-paced and intense, so expect to spend a significant amount of time doing homework problems and reviewing notes, but it is extremely rewarding.  Prof. Gaitsgory presents the material in a really logical, intuitive way, always motivating concepts before introducing them so they seem very natural.  Definitely take this class!
As with most Math classes at Harvard the class strongly depends on the professor teaching the class. I was fortunate enough to take the class with Professor Gaitsgory, who not only is an amazing professor, but also provided some of the most well-written notes I've ever had in any class, which made the class interesting and enjoyable despite it's difficulty and workload.
If they are up for the challenge, take this course.
This course was absolutely stellar. Obviously it a prerequisite for nearly all of the upper level mathematics classes, so most math majors will have to take it. However, Gaitsgory made the class one of my best experiences of my life. More than any other professor, he taught at an abstract level, and made me realize how little of mathematics I understood before, as well as all the amazing ideas out there. He taught for the students' understanding, and on multiple occasions, it was easy to see he put a lot of thought into the order of presentation as well as which proofs would be easiest for us to understand and would be most motivated in the context of the course. For one thing, before this course, I was often somewhat confused what "show this is well defined means" but the way Gaitsgory introduces the material makes this absolutely clear. In the class, we were introduced to abstract gadgets like tensor products and localizations, which are really prevalent in all of mathematics. Tensor producs came up almost every week in different contexts, (in induced representations and frobenius reciprocity, in normal and seperable extensions, in localizations, etc.) and seemed to magically make everything easier. This course will truly show you the power of such abstractions, and give you an intuition for how to use these fundamental techniques. If you do take a class with Gaitsgory, make sure you ask questions whenever you're confused, as he is more than glad to answer them, and office hours are also a fantastic experience. If you're serious about learning abstract math, I recommend taking any course with professor Gaitsgory you can.
When Gaitsgory teaches this class it is very special. Probably different from the other classes I have taken in the department. There are very few examples, which can be a good or bad thing, but in general the material is presented at a fast pace, yet clearly. I think I learned a great deal this semester.
If Prof. Gaitsgory teaches it, he is amazing. However, sometimes the material gets really abstract, so I found it helpful to complement the lecture notes with other material found online. Try to ground the material with some concrete examples to get the most out of the class.
Professor Gaitsgory is amazing at everything he does.  What he doesn't do, sometimes, is try to explain intuition, so if you take the course with him (which I absolutely recommend you do), make sure to figure out the intuition behind things in class and on the problem sets.
Gaitsgory is the boss.  He sometimes goes very VERY fast, but as long as you keep up with the class he will certain get you from undergrad to grad level in a semester.
The content covered in this class is awesome. If you are taking this class with Prof Gaitsgory, be prepared to spend time digesting the material (the content moves along quite fast!) but the amount of content you learn and the growth you undergo is astonishing.
Professor Gaitsgory is a phenomenal mathematician and teacher, and his lecture notes and homework problems are very well-done. I highly recommend this class to anyone interested in learning some beautiful mathematics.
It probably depends more on the professor than on the course. If Harris is teaching, take it, he's a great lecturer. The material's pretty interesting too, if not especially mindblowing.
If Harris is teaching, take it.  He is enthusiastic, fun, and even funny.  A great teacher.
This was a really great class and I learned a lot. It was a fairly even cover of Galois/module/representation theory. Joe Harris is a great lecturer/professor and overall thug.
Awesome material and awesome prof.
A difficult class with lots and lots and lots of material (essentially three separate units: fields & Galois theory, representation theory, and module theory).  Harris is great though.
I'm not sure if it was the subject material or Joseph Harris, but this class was great. If you want to learn Galois Theory, representation theory, and modules, take this class.
Harris is an excellent lecturer, and his class provided what felt to me to be a well-rounded finish to undergraduate algebra.  The psets are computational as they were (at least for me) in 122, but the material should be interesting and worth learning to those interested in an introductory study of algebra.  The curriculum does tend to vary by year, though, so it's hard to speak for other instances of the course.
it's hard (has a lot of 55ers in it) but worth it
Professor Harris is excellent. Math 123 was manageable and interesting. Do check who the lecturer is - in the past two years there was an unimaginable difference between what 123 is and how it was taught.
Prof. Harris is amazing, great lecturer and hilarious. Take courses from him whenever possible (this was only my first course with him, but I think I will adopt this strategy from now on...). I think courseload depends widely on who is teaching but Prof. Harris makes the workload pretty fair, not too much of a time suck.
If youre 55 level, not too much work, but still rewarding. Solid intro to rep theory and modules.
As I gather, the class varies from year to year, and the emphasis on abstract concepts vs. concrete concepts can change greatly. The year I took Math 123, it was taught by Joe Harris, and the course was pretty accessible, with the more abstract stuff like the tensor product and other abstract constructions not really emphasized/required for the final. The workload was sort of moderate, but psets weren't really hard, they just took some time to write up.
The subject matter is really interesting, and Harris is amazing. If he is teaching this, you should be taking it.
Any course taught by Professor Harris is bound to be awesome! In general you'll learn a lot of math and solve interesting problem sets.
The material was interesting, the homework wasn't too difficult or time-intensive, and Harris was a fantastic lecturer.  Take this class.  :)
Things are harder than lecture might make them seem.
I loved this class. Harris the best, as you probably know. He is an effective lecturer and the most humble guy. He is great and taught everything so clearly. We managed to do Galois Theory, Rep'n Theory, and started Ring Theory/Module Theory, it was very cool.
The class composition is kind of heterogeneous, so pacing might be a bit weird, but overall it's very worth taking.
If you're coming to this class from Math 122, depending on who taught 122 when you took it you might have to do some extra work to fill in the "gap" between where 122 ends and 123 begins.  Math 123 can be a pretty large step up from Math 122.That said, Math 123 is well worth taking, and Joe Harris was great as always.
Prof. Harris is great and I would recommend this class especially when he teaches.
This class is fabulous, especially when taught by Professor Harris. The material is fascinating and exciting. The course is difficult, but the interest of the material makes any difficulty worth it.
Professor Harris is absolutely amazing and you must take a class with him!  He's an extremely clear lecturer and you can expect to understand everything that you hear.  That being said, this certainly isn't the hardest class you'll take (though I'm sure this largely depends on the professor).  The workload was relatively light, but I enjoyed it.
The material in this class is essential. Galois theory in particular brings together many fields of algebra beautifully even though some say it is useless. Joe Harris is a fantastic lecturer, though the problem sets he gives can be pretty computational rather than clean proofs.
This is a really interesting class that moves faster than 122 or 25a/b. Don't miss lectures, and don't get behind on the often difficult homework.
TAKE THIS CLASS! It was hard for me, but that barely dimmed my enthusiasm for this awesome course. If you liked 122 (or 55, I guess), then you'll love this stuff even more. Rings, Fields, and Galois theory are all wonderful to learn about. Representation theory is a little less interesting, but many parts (like most of character theory) are still enjoyable. Modules are pretty good too. The big draw for this course, though, is Professor Harris. That man is just electric when he lectures. He really made me enthusiastic about  123. Pray that he teaches this class again!
The course ends up covering quite a bit of material so make sure that you understand each part thoroughly and occasionally come back to review, otherwise it could come back to bite you during the final.
Great class, *especially if Harris is teaching it.* I tried taking the class a year earlier with Gaitsgory but couldn't keep up. Trying again, with a year more experience, I found Harris to be an excellent teacher and was really glad I hadn't insisted on trying to keep up with Gaitsgory.
Great course! Professor Harris is awesome.
It was a very interesting class, with great lectures by Prof. Harris.
This is a good course if Joe Harris is teaching it. He is just amazing. The class is very manageable and you will learn a ton. Do not take the class pass/fail, you will end up working as hard as everyone else and you wouldn't get a grade for it.
Very interesting material!  And Joe Harris is a lucid and entertaining lecturer.
123 with Mazur was great, definitely take any number theory-related course that he teaches. That being said, there was a lot of well-taught, important material in this course even for those not as interested in number theory, like some commutative algebra for example.
The class was very badly organized. The lectures and problem sets had little if anything to do with each other. The lectures were rarely relevant, and there were three different textbooks the psets were more or less randomly drawn from; sometimes the problems couldn't even be solved using all three textbooks! Additionally, the lectures were practically read straight out of the textbooks, except that various parts were skipped, meaning that simply reading the textbooks could have given you a lot more information about this subject, without having to take the class. The material skipped out of the textbooks was also quite often the material you actually needed to do the problem sets; the class focuses only on the abstract theorems that don't apply to the (slightly) more concrete material in the problem sets. When the class did cover the material in the problem sets, it was invariably the week after they were due. The only useful part of the course was section and office hours, which were the only way a large number of students could even attempt the homework (since you don't learn the tools you need in class).Many of us came from Math 55, and found these psets to be much more frustrating due to the structure of the class. In 55, while the problems are extremely difficult, you at least knew enough going into the psets to understand what they mean and begin to formulate possible strategies. Here you can't even begin to solve many of them outside of section and office hours. If we didn't have Kevin as our CA, who was willing to help us learn the material that applies to the problem sets, and guide us through them, a good fraction of the class probably would have failed.
Required for many advanced courses. If you took 55a you might have covered a big deal already and the first half might seem boring.
This class is serious stuff.  Expect to do work and then learn things.
If you have an opportunity to take a class with Barry Mazur, then you must seize it. Simple as that. Although he is preeminent in mathematics (probably one of the top mathematicians of the last century or two), when one takes a class from him on the mathematics of the nineteenth century (which is, in a slightly more modern packaging, where much of 123's mathematics comes from), it is as though it is the cutting edge. Professor Mazur never rushes, (in fact it sometimes seems as if he might be going too easy on the class) and then, suddenly, you've finished essentially all of the content of Cox's Galois Theory and the latter half of Artin's Algebra. Mazur adds his own distinctive flair to the course. He is also one of the kindest human beings you will meet (office hours was a highlight of my week).With respect to 123 in particular, the mathematics could scarcely be more beautiful. Additionally, it is indispensable to more advanced mathematics. It would be no exaggeration to say that Galois theory is one of the crowning accomplishments of the human intellect. 123 also has a history of being taught by great people. In short, take it.
Really great class.  You learn a ton, but it is definitely challenging material.  If you really like math then it's a great class.  The lectures didn't always line up super well with the psets which was frustrating, but the psets are very reasonable and weren't too bad at all.  If you like math a lot and are interested in algebra then this is a good class with not too heavy of a work load.
This course was interesting with Mazur, who is a very kind man. He allowed the pace to fluctuate early on, but then settled on one that I think suited the class well, taking into account the feelings of the students. The story of Galois is pretty amazing, so it is nice to pay homage to him in a weird way. The stuff itself is beautiful. In the words of one young man: "magnificent".
As always, the courses in the math department depend heavily on the instructor. That said, I didn't find Mazur's iteration of the class particularly inspiring or satisfying; we seemed to reach only a superficial level of the material. Furthermore, the class wasn't very organized, as we would frequently see the same problems appear on different psets or have the same lecture repeated multiple times. That being said, Galois theory and algebra are really cool topics, and if you're a math concentrator, you should definitely take this class.
As usual, note that this course varies year to year, with different professors. This year, it was a great though tough experience. Galois theory is really cool, and definitely something every math concentrator should know, but it's really hard. Artin's Algebra is a great reference. Mazur's lectures were alright, sometimes kind of dry, but very informative. You'll get a lot more out of them if you study (not just read) the book beforehand, it makes them much more comprehensible. Before taking this course, you should definitely have a solid grasp on group theory; make sure to be really, really solid on the material from 122.
I found this to be one of the most rigorous and difficult math classes I've taken. I think it was great in giving me a deeper understanding of algebra, but do be prepared to put in quite a bit of work.
Math 123 with Professor Mazur was a wonderful class. It was much more difficult than 122 but also far more engaging. Galois theory is a very cool application of groups, rings, and fields, and by the end of the class you will be able to fully understand results such as the Abel-Ruffini theorem and many others.
This is a must take for any math concentrator. It is an excellent course to follow Math 122, and it ties up many loose ends that 122 starts. Also, no undergraduate concentrator should graduate without having seen the beauty of Galois theory.
If you want to learn Galois Theory, definitely take this class.
This class was generally interesting, but sometimes disorganized.
The class covers a lot of very interesting material and will force you to think deeply in a way that is often rewarding. However it did require a much greater time commitment than Math 122, for instance, so people in concentrations related to but outside of math might want to keep that in mind while considering this as an elective. I found the different parts a little unconnected with each other sometimes, which could make it difficult to keep track of all the information and tools we had, but the individual ideas were introduced in a lucid way.
Mazur is a genius. He can be a bit of a dull lecturer, but the course is still worth taking. It's a beautiful subject, and one that really can't be missed in a math education.
The material is really cool and Prof. Harris is an excellent, clear lecturer. Definitely take this class if Harris is teaching it!
If you're a math concentrator, you'll almost definitely need to take this class. If you took 55a in the fall, you should take this class - it's substantially easier, in fact, and the material is pretty fun. For some reason I felt like rings and modules were the only things you'd really need   for advanced math classes - Galois theory probably to a fairly limited extent, and the rep theory you learn here is kind of baby heuristics more than anything else. Harris is a super-nice guy and a really solid teacher and will make sure you understand everything, espe although he is sometimes imprecise or hand-wavey and occasionally forgets some details. His version of 123 was significantly less abstract than I expected - he did use commutative diagrams/tensor products/universal properties when specific situations required them, but rarely as general motivating concepts. This is not necessarily a good or bad thing - it's just something to keep in mind, considering how you prefer to learn algebra. Don't know if Allen will be CAing again, but if he does, go to his section - he's great.
It really seems to depend on who is teaching the class. Professor Harris was an amazing lecture, and he introduced all the topics with so much enthusiasm. Galois theory is fun!
Great class! The material is very interesting and Harris is a great lecturer. You will learn a lot about different topics (Galois theory, representation theory, rings + modules). Expect to work hard though as the problem sets can be rather lengthy.
If you took Math 122, I think this class is a great one to take next. The results you proved in 122 allow you to tackle much cooler problems in this class.
I highly recommend Math 123, as the course covers great material. However, I recommend more strongly any course taught by Professor Harris, Arpon Raksit, or Allen Yuan.
This is a very well-organized course in certain topics in algebra.  We treated field extensions very well; the other topics (representation theory and linear algebra over rings) got shorter shrift, but the parts that we learned were still well presented.  The workload was also reasonable if inconsistent week to week, though this depends highly on the instructor (Gaitsgory's versions of the course in particular are known for their difficulty).
This is an awesome class. Prof. Harris is a great lecturer, and you will learn many interesting topics in algebra.
Awesome class :) Prof. Harris is amazing.
Harris is fantastic and just makes the class enjoyable as well as incredibly informative.  Take this class.
If Joe Harris is teaching this course, seriously take it. He is incredible and truly committed to teaching, which is clear in every hour of class. Harris a really engaging lecturer and is great at generating enthusiasm for the topic. Beyond this, Galois theory and Representation theory are really cool material.
Professor Harris is probably my favorite math lecturer. Extremely approachable, clear, informative, and fun. He makes math less intimidating.
The material was really cool, and Harris is a really good lecturer. If you're in math or a related field, I highly recommend the course because the material is just beautiful to watch unfold.
Harris is an amazing teacher. The class is hard, but completely worth it.
The material you learn is ubiquitous in math, and absolutely necessary if you want to go into the algebraic fields of math, but be wary of who's teaching this. Professors will take liberty with the presentation of the material.
This course was a great introduction to fields, Galois theory, and representation theory. Background in groups (e.g. Math 122) probably useful but definitely not necessary (I came from 25, and didn't take 122). Harris (who taught it this year) is a fantastic lecturer, and managed to strike the perfect balance between rigor and developing intuition. His real enthusiasm for the subject comes across in lecture, and makes all the difference.
This course is taught excellently, and the homework helps you get a solid grasp of the subject. The best part is Galois theory.
the material is so cool, and very important. harris is an awesome lecturer, and gives fun assignments!
Professor Harris is great! He really cares about making sure his students are learning things, not just mechanically taking notes in class. Plus, Allen and Arpon are both very nice and very helpful.
Joe Harris is awesome and so is Galois theory.
This is a great course to take, but the instructor Professor Harris was uninspiring during lecture. He basically teaches out of the book, and that is boring because you can just read the book and skip the lectures. Take this course with Professor Gaitsgory, and you will fall in love with algebra unconditionally.Be warned with the Q-ratings on this course -- Professor Harris is rated very highly because he's a nice guy, but the point is that he's not a great lecturer.
More good stuff
It is probably a good idea to take this class right after Math 122. Being fresh out of introductory abstract algebra will make the material here easier to grasp. Galois theory is, in my opinion, very interesting but somewhat hard to follow, at least initially.
You will gain more from lectures if you read the relevant material prior to each lecture.
This class was challenging but rewarding.  Prof. Mazur was great.  If you liked 122, you will probably like this class, although I found it more challenging.  Galois theory is cool, and Artin is well-written and helpful.
Algebra is where it's at. If this class is taught by Mazur be aware that he is not only one of the greatest mathematicians alive, but also a wonderful lecturer with a penchant for engaging presentations and slick proofs. Attending the lectures will make everything much smoother (again, it's Mazur's 123 that I'm talking about here), as I discovered at my expense (did not attend a single class after the first midterm and performed poorly on the second one). The textbooks (Artin, Lang and Cox) are beautiful, and Cox in particular is a gem I didn't know existed. Highly recommend.
great class. if you like math, take it! it is hard, but worth it in the end if you have interest in algebra.
Algebra II is a great course with really interesting material, I highly recommend it!For Mazur: understand that he gives beautiful but somewhat disjointed lectures. The key is to read and understand the material ahead of time so you can fully appreciate his  lectures.I found the  material on Noetherian Rings at the  start the  hardest.For the  exams know  the  tricks he likes: Splitting Modules, Fermat's Little Theorem,  Artin-Schreir Polynomials, Proving the Fundamental Theorem of  Galois  Theory, and the Inverse  Galois Problem. He likes illustrative examples; he also likes  questions that require familiarity with important proofs.
Difficult but rewarding class, covers lots of important material, definitely take if you think you're into algebra
This is a great course. If you want to study math, you will need this material. Barry Mazur is a giant in math, and he gives very clear and effective lectures. He is very kind as well, and his office hours are very helpful. The difficulty and speed of the course was just right. Just take it.
Take this class! It's essential, and it's also very interesting.
Go to class, pay attention in class. Don't fall behind on homeworks.
I would really recommend taking this class, especially if Mazur is teaching it again. Everything about the class was really well organized, Artin/Cox work really well as textbooks in tandem with what we cover in class, and the assignments/exams will make you think through the important concepts but are in general not horrible/never a waste of time or "busy work". I came into this class taking it because it seemed relatively "essential" but ended up enjoying it so much.  (Also, don't be dissuaded if you took Math 122 in the previous academic year; there was a short and very helpful review of ring/module basics in the beginning.)
This one goes put all my mathematically-inclined people in the physical sciences. 123 is much more of a math majors' course than 122. Reasons to take: (i) adding rings, modules, and fields to your mathematical repertoire will grant you greater fluency in the algebraic mode of thinking, which may pay dividends on the more practical side of abstract algebra (mainly group theory); and (ii) field theory (of which Galois theory is a part) is beautiful in its own right. If neither of these reasons strongly appeal to you (as they did to me), I would recommend taking a different course. There is very little advanced group theory in this course, so you might be better off self-studying that (as one would need to anyway), and taking a course that is more practical for your interests. Above all of that, Mazur has a remarkable knowledge of the course's subject matter and gives you all the tools you could need to learn it.
This is a solid continuation of Math 122. The material is important and you need to learn it. Doing so with Mazur is a fine choice. Homework, exams are both fair and straightforward enough. Good section component and CA was helpful (via email and at Math Night). You will cover a ton of material and though the lectures were at times unclear and not very good, you will look back and realize you learned a lot (basically covered Artin Chapter 11 to the end of the book plus some topics not covered there).
This was the best run course I have taken at Harvard. Professor Mazur is brilliant, the course material is well presented, and the homework assignments were fair.
Galois theory is difficult but beautiful, and this class does an excellent job of teaching it.
This class is the amazing. Mazur is an incredible professor who has a unique understanding of Galois Theory. Even if algebra is not your cup of tea, Mazur's exposition will get you excited about rings and fields. Especially given the reasonable workload, anyone interested in math should take this course. If you're especially interested in number theory, this is the first foray of algebra that was more or less made to study polynomials and other objects integral to that field. In essence, this class is a wonderful dive into mathematics for its own sake.
Arul has an aura of supreme intelligence and produces each lecture seemingly on the spot during each class period. While this technique has its merits, the class suffers from a lack of concrete materials. Artin's textbook is a poor resource at best, and some of the fun was taken out of psets because it was never quite clear if I should know how to solve the problem or needed to have some clever insight. Without a core set of theorems and facts, it was difficult to judge the problems.The class spends a lot of time developing the rather trivial machinery of Ring Theory and Module Theory (although the extensive treatment of the Decomposition Theorem for Modules over a PID is much better than 122's). Once the class got to Galois theory it became much more interesting.Take if you want a straightforward introduction to Field Theory and aren't afraid to do a little hunting on your own.
I loved this course. The material is really cool, especially Galois theory where everything comes together. Arul is phenomenal: his lectures are always crystal clear, and he's very approachable and encouraging. The whole class loves him! You will feel comfortable and engaged in his course.
Math class quality is highly teacher dependent, so shop this first (the amazing Arul Shankar is leaving so my praise would be irrelevant). But the material we covered is super cool, and the department and TFs were super duper chill. Small class size, so we get to ask a lot of questions. Would highly recommend! It was a fantastic course.
This course was a wonderful follow-up to Math 122, and really clarified my understanding of ring theory and module theory. Galois theory is beautiful as well - definitely recommending this course to any 122'ers.
Great class to polish up your algebra and learn Galois theory!
Can be difficult, but course staff is very supportive
1. You have to take it anyways because it's a requirement for... anything. Well, maybe not everything, but at least the one that I want to take: Math 129, Math 132, etc... 2. take it if ARUL is teaching it!! Arul is incredibly helpful in Office Hour. He talked pretty slowly in class, and there were many pauses during his speaking, but it may actually help you think when you are trying to understand math... But if you don't understand anything, just go to his Office Hour. And his brother actually is equally helpful too. They are both super nice and know how to explain stuff to college students. Really appreciate Arul's dedication to students, especially considering that he was sick for a while this semester.
Taking math 122 and not this class is like setting up dominoes and then putting them away without knocking them over. Although rings and modules are not particularly exciting material, Galois theory is without a doubt the coolest thing I have learned in math in college so far. Arul, Ashvin, and Julian were all exceptional instructors. Also grading on the psets were lax and the flexible deadlines were very helpful.
This class was excellent. Arul was an excellent professor. I would definitely suggest taking more classes from him!
This is definitely the best math course I have taken at Harvard. Arul is a fantastic lecturer and algebra is a beautiful subject. Definitely an easier and more clearly presented course than 122 although that was not what I was expecting based on reading q comments from past iterations of the course.
Arul goes a little slower than I'd like but is way chill and otherwise a great lecturer.
Gives a solid background in ring and field theory.
Great class.  The introductory Galois theory stuff is actually quite cool
Great class-- Arul is a great lecturer and a brilliant mathematician. He's also a really caring guy which was nice (although it did get annoying when he consistently stopped lecture 30 min early). Galois theory is beautiful, so I would definitely recommend it for that reason. The workload is very manageable, and the TFs were extremely flexible this year-- the hard deadline for the all the psets was the day of the final. Unfortunately that resulted in very little feedback, but it wasn't a huge problem. Overall a great class.
numbers, yo
