Godin is a really energetic teacher.Also you really don't need 131 to take 132.
The material is not that terrific and the psets are not that great, but lectures are clear and the class is not that hard. If you're into the subject, then it would be a really good class.
Great professor and interesting material.
This class is more important for people interested in physics than say algebra or even analysis. It is cool too.
The material in this course was interesting and refreshingly different from many available undergrad math courses.
Professor Godin is a wonderful professor, and students should take as many of her classes as possible!
Some of the results are cool, but the way you get there is a bit tedious.
Take it
It's challenging but interesting. Also, Professor Hopkins is great.
Take courses with Professor Hopkins!!!
Fun material, good teacher
-
Very interesting material, clear treatment.  Take whatever class you can with Hopkins!
A great way to gain intuition about geometry
Would recommend if MICHAEL HOPKINS is teaching next year.
Take advantage of Hopkins' office hours
This was a lot more exciting than freshman math (analysis, bla hblah). Take it!
Professor Hopkins is wonderful , office hours are great.
The material is sometimes hard to formalize, but the ideas are really beautiful and worthwhile.
It's fun!
It is a great introduction to differential topology.
The material was not covered very thoroughly.  This course works alright for a broad survey, but if you really won't to get a thorough understanding of the material, this course is lacking.
Why would you skip this class? You should not.
Lectures in this particular year were likely more disjointed than would normally be expected.  Nonetheless, unless the course were to structure itself around a more advanced text than Guillemin and Pollack, the perusal of Spivak's Calculus on Manifolds or Munkres's Analysis on Manifolds that likely accompanies the tail end of Math 25b probably suffices as a replacement for much of the course material (this discounts the interesting detour Hopkins took into more algebraic differential topology -- but this appears to be another idiosyncracy of this particular instance of the course).
Very interesting material, I liked the lecturer, not too much work. May change depending on professor.
Topology is really, really pretty. It is different from other kinds of math in that high level intuition becomes more important. Also, I recommend any class taught by Hopkins. Although he can be a little disorganized, I think he does a good job at explaining the concepts, and he certainly cares more about students understanding the lectures than following a rigid syllabus - he'll make the pace slower if necessary. Plus, he is the most hilarious mathematician you will ever meet, in addition to being a world-class topologist.
132 is sort of interesting, and pretty easy. It's also a prereq for a lot of later stuff, so you may as well take it.
This course presents the theory of manifolds embedded in R^n.  Although this presentation does not sacrifice generality, it does sacrifice abstraction.  I think some of the theory would have been more beautiful in a more abstract context.  If you agree, perhaps find another context in which to learn differential topology.
Good class, has some overlap with 136
Don't take it if Professor Hopkins teaches it again. The entire course, including lectures, was too disorganized. The material is probably very interesting, but unfortunately I can't tell from having taken this course. Professor Hopkins is extremely entertaining in lecture though...
The professor is hilarious and the course is overall very chill.
Hopkins is a cool dude, but not a great professor.  His lectures are funny, but they are more of a stand-up comedy than an actual lecture.  You should attend his class if you want a break from doing math.
hopkins is chill
If Hopkins is teaching it, it probably won't be demanding, and he's certainly entertaining. But if you really need to know the stuff, you probably won't learn it very well (see the 'not demanding' part above). Good for a 5th class where you want brief exposure to the topic.
I read in last years Q report, that I should take any as long Michael J. Hopkins teaches it. I just repeat this recommendation.
it's a sort of painless class but you won't learn much unless you're motivated and work out the psets by yourself.
Only take this if you have a strong interest in the subject matter. If you have a strong interest in the subject matter, you'll probably enjoy it.
This is an interesting and fun class. Andy is a very fast paced lecturer, though, and the assignments were difficult.
Topology seems quite interesting.
Liked the material a lot.  The textbook (Guillemin and Pollack) is sort of old-school but grows on you.  Good professor.  The class taught this year does require some mathematical maturity, so it's not one of the easier 100s classes, though that may depend on who you are.
This really fascinating material that's very hard to get a handle on. Expect to spend a shit ton of time confused.
This course is not really that useful for anything, and was not particularly fun. It was a bunch of work with Andy, and though in the end it turned out ok, there were times of despair.
This is a good course to take if you are interested in, well, smooth manifolds.
Math 132 was a great course. Dan's iteration of it was pretty light on work and a lot of fun. A lot of emphasis was put on concrete examples and calculations, which is not emphasized in most harvard math classes, but is very essential for understanding the subject of manifolds. Dan's is an amusing lecturer, and gives good intuition for the geometry, which will be a huge help going on to more abstract material in 231a. Take this course if you want to get a solid basis for understanding manifolds.
This is a hidden gem of the math department. This course is full of powerful techniques and really cool results and serves as good preparation to study tons of neat topics in physics from a rigorous perspective (symplectic manifolds, Lie groups, etc.).
This class was fun. The psets were great, but study as much as possible for the test. Dan's lecturing can occasionally get messy.
It's a competently run course, and quite well organized, and if you need a 130s requirement than you might as well take it. The topology of manifolds isn't a beautiful subject in the same way as algebra, and arguments on problem sets often reduce to annoyance, but there are a number of nice results and 132 gets through the basic ones effectively.
Solid course. You can learn basic differential topology very solidly. Sometimes feels more like an extension of calculus than topology, but it's foundational material so what can you do?
This class was a lot of fun. Cool material and reasonable workload. I definitely recommend taking it with Professor Gardiner!
This class is a great introduction to many interesting topics. It is more concrete than 131, but it still presents many beautiful results. Definitely take this if you enjoyed the analysis portions of Math 23/25/55.
This course will introduce you to a wide variety of subjects in differential topology -- we covered most of the text (Guillemin and Pollack).  The problem sets were generally not that hard, and they usually involved computation.  The most challenging part of the course was probably the discussion of orientations and intersection theory, but this is also the most interesting.
Prof. Melvin is a really nice guy, writes really good problem sets, is responsive to feedback, and the project component of the course is incredibly fun. That said, he was a very dull lecturer in this course. Lectures moved slowly and focused far too heavily on the small details of proofs, rather than the big ideas of the course. Math 132 as a class is fine. Maybe you should take it. Manifold theory is kind of ugly, though.
This is a chill class with no midterm or final where you will still learn a lot, taught by George Melvin who is one of the coolest dudes in the math department. The psets can be trivial or on the longer side, but the late days policy is quite generous so use it effectively and there will be no problems at all.
Take this class to learn some cool concepts about homotopy and the basics of intersection theory. We didn't cover as much as we planned, but what we covered we did so thoroughly, and the problem sets and projects were interesting to work on. Professor Melvin really outdid himself in terms of making time to help students with understanding concepts and planning out projects!
The material for this class is very difficult. Awesome subject, though.
George was fantastic. I left the class really feeling like I had a much stronger math background. Also, you learn the theoretical foundations of a lot of general math concepts (like sphere eversion or the hairy ball theorem)!
The subject matter of the course is really interesting and was a great introduction to topology for someone who hadn't taken 131 prior to taking this course.  As a physics major, the material in this course also lent a lot of insight into the mathematics that I often use for computation.
George Melvin was a great teacher for this course! The material was cool, and George and Julian provided a lot of support in learning about related topics and writing about them.
This class covered the important topics in differential topology in a lucid and comprehensive way. The projects were a useful way of learning in depth about topics related to the material. George was very helpful and accessible. In some cases I felt that I didn't understand how the individual steps in the proofs connected to the larger ideas, but the textbook (Giullemin and Pollack) was helpful with that, and the textbook and lectures were complementary to each other in that sense--the former was quite condensed and described the main ideas, and the latter fleshed out calculations in detail. The class build some ideas which are precursors to the math needed for general relativity and gauge theories in physics, although it might not be the most direct way of learning the math needed for this physics.
George Melvin is a wonderful professor! He taught out of the textbook and the class moved at a comfortable pace. We had a generous late day / pset drop policy and I enjoyed writing papers instead of having to take a final! Also a cool topic.
A lot of interesting and advanced stuff on the psets. Lectures are alright, although Hopkins will sometimes goes through definitions too fast.
Take anything with Professor Hopkins.
There were no exams and just psets, which was really great. However, the material got really hard near the end, esp. with bordism homology, and I ended up spending a ton of time just trying to dissect the material. At any rate, differential topology is a vast and exciting branch of mathematics, and I'm glad I got a taste of it.
This class was quite unusual, for many reasons. Professor Hopkins is a really funny professor and makes class interesting, even if he's disorganized at times. He teaches at a very high level, which is both good and bad. We were introduced to advanced topics (intersection forms of bordism homology groups as a means to classify compact closed 2-manifolds, for example), which is great for an undergrad class. But it also meant that we were often very confused. I think most of us managed to understand the general ideas of the concepts, but we were completely lost at the technical rigor that math usually incorporates. This class taught me how to hand-wave like none other. Also, work in this class seems almost optional at times, even though it is not: towards the end of the class, almost everyone was a few problem sets behind. I also don't imagine that Professor Hopkins is a strict grader.
This was my first exposure to manifolds, and I do not think there is a better way than the way it was done in this course. We also got exposed to a ton of really interesting ideas - from transversality to bordism homology to integration on manifolds.
Hopkins is an incredible Professor, of course a master of the material, enthusiastic, funny, clear, engaging (insert more positive feedback), and the early introduction to a certain portion of algebraic topology is very rewarding if you put in the work. Note however, when the switch is made to bordism homology, you will have to work very hard to understand what is going on, if you do not, as much of the class experienced, you will become hopelessly lost--even though this is the case I imagine most will still receive an A. However if you put the work into this course, it is worth every hour!
Super interesting topic, and Hopkins definitely knows how to communicate the material
It is a challenging topic, but very interesting that only through studying very rigorously can you. If you only have the time to glaze over things, you probably won't appreciate it much. Also, if Hopkins is teaching it, prepare for it to be very difficult. Lectures are pretty hard to follow along with, and once he goes off the textbook, it's all downhill from there.
hopkins is great
it's hard, but rewarding as fuck.
Hopkins is a fun professor, and his domain expertise let him comfortably go beyond the excellent textbook (Guillemin-Pollack); in this case, bordism homology and its oriented variant. Maturity beyond the listed requirements helps a lot (basic topology, linear algebra, proof-based real analysis).
It was okay.
