You must be interested in the material, the course is not for people outside of pure math.
Professor Sacks is wonderful - funny and knowledgeable, he knows how to teach without getting bogged down in details, which can be filled in on one's own/in office hours.
The professor won't help you with the material very well
You have to be motivated to understand the material on your own, because Prof. Sacks isn't going to force you to.  He's very accessible, and a wonderful professor, but you have to be ready to seek him out.
Unlike most courses in the math department, this course has a reasonable work load without sacrificing interesting material.
Take this course for concentration requirement or if you have a limited interest in mathematics.
there is a good chance you won't understand anything. however, it is possible to get by without knowing what you are doing.
As with all math courses, check the teacher. Ackerman was quite good. The basic material of model theory is really cool (completeness, soundness, quantifier elimination, etc.) and helped clarify some points about philosophy of math for me also. The later material can get a bit annoyingly technical though.
Professor Ackerman will answer every question you've ever had.
it is very hard to understand. hopefully you will have a section leader as helpful as billy.
To learn the topic well, you do need to do review/read up some additional model theory on your own. The ideas are very interesting but is hard to learn well unless you are willing to do more work on your own.
This class was absolutely amazing, but only because of Gerald Sacks (also, our TF was stellar as well). Prof. Sacks mentioned this would be his last time teaching it, so I would be wary of the course in the future: model theory can be mighty boring without Sacks' magic touch.
I'm afraid this class won't be taught again, not by Professor Sacks anyway, and that is the principal reason to take this class. Listening to Professor Sacks' stories, jokes, and opinions over the semester have been some of the most amusing and enlightening experiences I've had at Harvard. He's a champhe's done something he's skilled in and enjoyed his whole life and tried to have a laugh while doing it. I admire that.
