Taught by Siu, the class is very...unique. He has an interesting and unconventional approach to everything. The problem sets were not too difficult. A fairly interesting class without that much work.
Learn from the Master. But also read books.
This course is difficult, as any course by Professor McMullen is.  You will learn a lot though and develop great geometric intuition.  It also will not be like many other Harvard math courses which have strong algebraic leanings.  Make sure your background in complex analysis is strong enough and that you are familiar with all the basic examples which will give you the right intuition for Riemann surfaces.  Some algebraic geometry background may also be useful.
Just take every class that Professor McMullen teaches. Lectures were clear, well-organized, absorbing, and full of McMullen insights. The homework is catered for you, not just chosen from some book.
Professor McMullen is a very clear lecturer. I learned a lot from the class.
McMullen is a very good teacher. We hit the jackpot this year with complex analysis + McMullen, and you did, too, if you're reading this and wondering if you should take it in 2014.
If Professor McMullen is teaching, it's great (and very difficult). Very clear presentation of an analytic perspective on curves.
Professor Siu gives an excellent overview of many of the central techniques in several complex variables and complex geometry while providing a fascinating historical perspective on where all the different ideas came from
mcmullen is a great lecturer and has like a thousand really interesting viewpoints, so you get to see some really cool interactions among topology, algebra, geometry, analysis
One of the best math courses I have taken at Harvard - McMullen was teaching the course this year, and he is a fantastic lecturer. Riemann surfaces are awesome. Definitely take this class if McMullen is teaching it (also, think about taking any class that McMullen is teaching).
This is an excellent class -- interesting material and wonderful teaching!
This course can be life changing and convinced me that I should take any class that Prof. McMullen ever teaches.
Riemann surfaces (aka algebraic curves) are a hot topic and a worthy study subject for mathematicians of all fields.
This class is awesome!!  Take it.  McMullen is awesome, Riemann surfaces are awesome, this class is awesome.
The material the course covers seemed to link all the math I had taken before together. It also covered some very flashy-sounding topics near the end and gave enough intuition that these seemed quite understandable. The lectures in general were more or less the best I have seen in the math department. However, beware that unlike a lot of other math classes, late problem sets are not accepted--there is no second chance if you end up not understanding a given week's material very well or get stuck on a problem for too long so only take this if you are pretty sure you can consistently be on top of things.
This course was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Every day was an exciting trip into new material, with clear and illuminating lectures, and tricky problems that really help you learn the material. The course highlighted beautiful connections between all the areas of math.
This course is probably the best place to learn about Riemann surfaces (it's quite difficult though, so it's nice to take it with others).
Best lecturer ever.
This class was amazing. If professor Mcmullen is teaching it, just take it. You will not regret it.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.
