It wasn't that hard, but very fun and interesting. Also I learned a lot, so I guess the course was about ideal.
It's not a bad class in its way, but if you have mathematical background and are looking for something exciting, this is not for you.
If you are interested in a math class that covers interesting material in an straightforward manner, and you do not mind boring and slow lectures, then this is the class for you.
The class is not to difficult and is taught by a good professor.
take it if you want to learn about projective, spherical, and hyperbolic geometries.
Interesting material and not a big workload.
The required textbook for this course (by Ryan) was very, very unsatisfactory: the explanations were not enough, proofs were not given for every theorem/proposition (only rarely), and worst of all there was a good amount of lecture material that could not be found in this textbook or the prof's online notes.  Also, the course does not go into any significant depth.  We studied affine, spherical, projective and hyperbolic geometry more from an advanced high school level rather than a Harvard college level.  This class was disappointing overall.
This course is very interesting and manageable!
Take it if professor kronheimer is teaching.
Good course to feel the sense of geometry.
This class excels, largely in part because of Professor Kronheimer offering clear, uncluttered lectures and interesting--but not tedious--problem sets.
This was a slightly more difficult course than advertised.  Not unreasonable, definitely in reach of all math concentrators.  Be weary of long psets.  Exams are fairly graded and it's a plus that the instructor is so enthusiastic.
homework is a good guide to exams; look for connections between the different geometries to not just make things easier to remember but also to appreciate the material more
The course material is very interesting, especially how slightly changing the axioms of a geometry creates a totally different concept.
The difficulty of the class may surprise you.
I would recommend taking this class if you have any interest in geometry. I really enjoyed the lectures.
if the instructor is professor Hopkins. Take the class ! ^^
Be wary of taking it with Hopkins...it doesn't require much work, but your learning can suffer.
The course covers interesting material, and Hopkins is a great professor.
This class is a fun survey of different ways to think about Geometry. It is pretty easy, as far as math courses go, but can still give you some cool things to think about. Hopkins is a fun professor.
There are more intriguing geometries beyond Euclid's geometry!
This class was definitely not stressful, but I also don't really feel like I learned that much.  The course is frustratingly disorganized.   Everything we did seems like it was done on a whim.
Interesting and challenging subject material, but not altogether that difficult. Not necessarily an easy class, but definitely a flexible one.
Great for students who are good at visualizing things
It is a fun course with a nice introduction of topics in geometry.
Take this class or take any class that Taubes is teaching. What's great about his classes are no midterm or final exam which is stressful but instead he has you do a take home for both that is essentially "write a lecture on this."
Mad easy. If you like math but aren't serious about it (i.e., you're concentrating in some non-STEM where it isn't an essential part of what you'll be doing for the next few decades after college) it might be a good fit for you. Otherwise, you might want to hold off.
Really fun upper level math course. It's easy, but the material is so fun that you should really try your best to stay engaged and attending lecture even though you can easily do the problem sets without going. Cliff's lectures are amazing because he has a wonderful attitude about mathematics, and a ridiculously large base of knowledge about random things!
Tabues is hilarious- I went to lectures partly for the content but mostly for his jokes, seriously.  He gives a lot of feedback on papers with the option to revise - which is annoying at first but actually so helpful in terms of strengthening your argument and making you a better mathematician.  Loved this class, would take it again.
Cliff Taubes is my favorite professor at Harvard.  Take anything and everything you can with him.  You'll learn a lot if you do the work thoroughly, and you'll be rewarded with an A.  His grading scheme is legendary.
As anyone who has taken a class with Taubes can say, his classes are stress free. You could learn something if you put in the effort, but you could also not learn something. Personally, I prefer to not feel like a waste of space so I put in some effort, did well, and learned some things. Non-Euclidian geometry is pretty cool. The textbook does a good job explaining it. Basically this class is an exercise in not picturing parallel lines like you know them to be. Accept this and you will understand.
This is a class in which it's very easy to do well.  It didn't absolutely FORCE me to learn the material, though so what you take away from the class is up to you.
The course material is fascinating, but we never engaged quantitatively with it. Beware of who teaches it: if it is Taubes, then you will not learn much, but the class will be super easy. The problem sets were completely self evident. Projects were fun and stressless since you get to submit a draft and get comments before you resubmit a final version. Lectures were slow, and ad hoc. If I weren't fascinated by the material, I would have been more bored than death. We were peeking at material, but not really learning all that much concretely about it. As an easy-peasy elective, why not. You can do all the psets without even going to lecture. As a concentration requirement, you will find this very unsatisfying.
If you're a math concentrator who's afraid of topology (like I am), this is an easy way to fulfill your 'one course in the 130s' requirement. If you're not in that category however, the course material isn't very interesting (the first 2 months are things that you learned in 10th grade geometry and the last month is 'projective' geometry stuff, which is just kind of weird), so I would avoid it.
The course is interesting and Prof.Taubes explains the topics very clearly.
I thought the course material was a little too basic for a 100-level math course, but I really enjoyed Cliff Taubes' take-home midterm and final format. It really helped me understand key concepts in the course and I think I ended up learning some interesting things.
Go if you are planning on participating/going to office hours. If you do those things you will get a lot out of this class, but if not you will find yourself super lost and struggling to figure out the psets.
Great class if you are a math concentrator/secondary and you want to take an easy class to balance your schedule. The class is well-structured, Hopkins is a great teacher and the material is interesting, but it doesn't move very quickly and assignments aren't very difficult.
Professor Hopkins is incredible.  Geometry is chill, but having Professor Hopkins teach you geometry is great.
This class is great, but as with any class (especially math), it depends on who is teaching it. Hopkins is a great professor, and I'd take just about any class he's teaching if I had the background. The material in this class is quite interesting, but just be sure to look at what the intended curriculum is that year because I'm sure it changes a bit depending on who is teaching.
Eric was great and made this one of the most interesting math classes I've taken. Having papers instead of exams is low stress and gives you an opportunity to explore a topic that you're interested in. If Eric is teaching this class again it is definitely worth taking.
This class teaches you a lot of really interesting areas of geometry, and Eric was an great lecturer. Additionally getting to write two papers from any areas of geometry of your choosing a lot of fun.
This is a relatively straightforward Math class--not particularly inspirational, but you'll definitely learn a lot of geometry and have the chance to do Math writing.
This class was very easy: low workload, no tests, only a midterm and final paper.  Take this class only if you are genuinely interested in learning something about geometry.  Topics are a bit strange/random but I found them really cool.  Don't take this class if you aren't interested in learning about geometry.  It's not worth it.  You can certainly coast through it, skip lecture, but you really won't get anything out of it.  I learned a lot from Prof Peterson's lectures, section, and genuinely trying my best on the papers.  May be less interesting for those with a really strong math background -- I took as my first post-21 series math class and it was a great hands-on introduction to proofs and higher-level mathematics.
Even though the psets were super manageable, it's up to you how much you can get in the course. You can learn a huge ton of material if you chose to delve deep into the papers or if you visit Prof. Peterson in OH and ask him about math.
Very easy and respectably interesting (from a historical perspective, at least)
