Though I do not think this course will be offered again, if it is, take it. It is fun, relatively easy, and very engaging.
Awesome professor, interesting material, although sometimes scattered. Do not expect to have a review session, or good review sheets.
This is truly one of the most enjoyable courses I have taken at Harvard. There is no stress from the assignments, all of the lectures are enjoyable, and the material learned is really fun! I would encourage any underclassmen thinking about concentrating in math (even if you have only taken 21) to take this course.
A great course if you are looking to learn a little about a large variety of mathematical topics.  Not very difficult or in-depth but a great survey of modern math.
Amazing class, both for its historical and mathematical content. Highly recommend to anyone who ever wondered about the how and why behind great theorems and those responsible.
Have you ever felt like math was too hard? Have you ever stayed away from math because you were uncertain? Is pure math too abstract for you? Do you associate math with boredom and no fun? Do you want to know more about the applications of math? Do you want to understand the history behind the math we study today? Do you want to learn about one of the greatest mathematicians that ever learned? If the answer to any of the above questions is yes, then this is the class for you.
Hands down the most fun class I have taken at Harvard.  Prof. Dunham is truly one-of-a-kind and an absolutely wonderful teacher and person to talk to.  This is an excellent elective/fun class to take and you will not regret it!!
This is really an amazing class. Since it's taught by a visiting professor, it's unlikely that he'll come back...but if he does, you HAVE to take this class, especially if you like both history and amazing math results. It's easy, although you do have to know some of the history surrounding the results.
This is a great course, Prof Dunham is awesome. The problem sets aren't too difficult.
I can't speak highly enough about this class. In my 4 years at Harvard, this was almost undoubtedly my favorite. Prof. Dunham is simply phenomenal; he's hilarious, incredibly knowledgable, and a tremendous lecturer. I would never have thought that math and history could be blended so seamlessly, and it was just thrilling to learn such cool mathematics in their fascinating, often hilarious, historical context. It was unlike any course experience I've had before and it was a fantastic way to end my college career. If you ever have a chance to take this course, DO IT!
Take this class to learn really cool, weird facts about the mathematical world with a great professor and passionate students. If you take this class, you will also develop tools for approaching difficult problem solving tasks.
This class is absolutely exciting. Prof. Dunham is very enthusiastic about the material, and rightfully so. You will get the right balance between the history of mathematics and the elegance of mathematical proofs.
Fantastic course with a fantastic Professor! The Harvard Math department should invite back Prof Dunham as often as his schedule allows. He is a fantastic lecturer who tells a great story and gives context to mathematical development. I have a greater appreciation of the underpinnings of calculus and context for the development of analysis. Highly recommend.
This class is very interesting, entertaining, and illuminating in its treatment of both mathematics, history, and the approaches of different mathematicians to their work. This class is a gem for anyone interested in math or math history, and was a fantastic experience for me this semester.
Professor Dunham is passionate and witty. The math department needs more classes like this so that concentrators can get a real grasp for mathematics as it's actually developed. Non-concentrators, too, can benefit -- the class was a great introduction to mathematical proof. There is absolutely no reason to not take this class.
If you have the chance to take this course, TAKE IT! Harvard should offer classes like this one more often. It is a fascinating journey through the history of mathematics that truly lends weight and insight to any pursuit of knowledge (in mathematics or otherwise). Euler's genius was truly beyond comparison and "thinking like Euler" for a semester by  working through his results has given me a new perspective on any sort of problem solving. Professor Dunham should be hired full time! I wish he taught history of mathematics courses every year-- he knows everything!
This is an extraordinary, engaging, and rewarding course. Take it if you can!
This class is wonderful. It's a fascinating (and surprisingly comprehensible) look into the minds of some of the smartest people who ever lived. Plus it's really easy, so there's that too. But for once I'm recommending it not because of that; if it were this interesting and hard I'd have loved it still, I think. I'm genuinely sorry it's over. If Professor Dunham ever comes back to teach it, you'd be making a HUGE mistake not to take it.
It's the best math course ever taught at Harvard.
This is a wonderful course that approaches math from a historical perspective.
Professor Dunham makes this course fantastic. Every single lecture is interesting and funny. The math is elegant and easy to follow. You really come away with a sense of Euler's place in the history of mathematics.
Just know what kind of course it is: it is probably more properly a History of Science/Mathematics course. If you want a rigorous (typically Harvard-style) exploration of mathematical topics with a focus on Euler, then this isn't the course. It is a pleasant, highly entertaining exploration of selected topics with a liberal dose of the history behind the mathematics. This history, contrary to its treatment in 99% of the other courses in the Mathematics department, is an INTEGRAL part of the course, not a distraction. And, contrary to the attitudes of many mathematics students, this is in fact a strength of the course! With that in mind, I would definitely recommend it.
Good history of math course, not difficult.
Prof. Dunham is wonderful.  He has a nice professorial haircut.  Expect to do some mundane calculation.
I would tell them: sorry, but this course was only offered by a visiting professor.  Unfortunately, the math department never offers this type of course, for reasons I do not understand.  If only, if only, this course were offered - if you love math, you must take this course.  This type of course provides an overview of a wide range of ideas in higher math that excites the student and fosters a commitment and self-engaged motivation to stick with math (or, for some, maintains and furthers an amateur's love for math).  But, alas, if patterns repeat themselves, this type of course will not be offered for an indefinite number of years, if ever again.
Unfortunately, this course is no longer going to be offered, but I would recommend it to everyone who likes math/history/fun courses.
Take this class if you want to have fun with math and/or if you really wanted to have the opportunity to write "dx^2 is too small to matter so just cross it out" without being laughed at.
The class is well organized.  I'd take it again if I had to.  I learned quite a bit and I really enjoyed it.  It's not hard.  It's an easy way to get through a math concentration requirement.
