Differential geometry is an essential subject in many areas of math, and this course was a good introduction. I particularly liked the algebraic perspective Hiro brought to the course.
This course felt a lot more like differential topology than differential geometry. Especially after taking math 132, this class beat around the bush with defining vector bundles, vector fields, differential forms, etc. for way too long. It felt like the geometry came almost as an afterthought in the last few weeks of the semester. Problem sets were long and time consuming though individual problem were rarely difficult.
Differential geometry is very cool. Clear lectures, and interesting problem sets (minus the occasional problem that was way too hard).
Take any class Hiro teaches, he is an excellent teacher.
This class was really hard, but Hiro works to make sure people understand as much as possible.
Though most assignments were long and tedious, Hiro is a great lecturer and truly cares about his students. It's very easy to get lost in the notation in this class (though that's a general statement about differential geometry), and I felt that could have been dealt with a little better in the class with some notes on it.
Hiro is a great teacher who is very enthusiastic about what he teaches. I like how he tries to give an intuitive explanation for things, and in particular, tries to contextualize what we're learning in a broader framework (story times). I wish at times he would be a bit more grounded, i.e. stay close to a text that we can refer to along with the class (as his notes are at times a bit difficult to read), but all in all a pretty solid introductory course.
Take this course if you want to learn some really cool math.
I'm from physics, so good course in general but maybe not so useful for most physicists not in mathsy physics
Make sure to try to picture all the concepts in class--this makes understanding and remembering them a lot easier.
If you want to learn something, go to lecture.
Differential geometry is cool! Prof. Lau made it so much cooler.
Pretty fun, Siu Cheong Lau's an entertaining lecturer.
Differential geometry is a very neat subject, particularly when you're thinking about theoretical physics; 230a is a broad introduction with a great number of important concepts and only a few overly involved proofs. With Siu-Cheong, the pacing might be a bit off, but you should be able to get to all of the concepts without needing to do too much work.
A tour of foundations of modern diffential geometry (basic theorems, exterior calculus, cohomology, complex manifolds, symplectic geometry, riemannian geometry). The course is an excellent introduction to geometry for math and physics students studying field and string theory as well for students of applied science.
Really a beautiful course. Plus Gauss, Riemann, and Einstein thought about this stuff. Who are you to pass it over?? :)
good preparation for further study in differential geometry and the qualifying exam, but perhaps a bit slow/elementary
Math 230a didn't cover quite as much material as it might have, but differential geometry is a beautiful subject.
Differential geometry is awesome once you get past all the formalism!
I feel Andy is a pretty good teacher, and very friendly. So if you want to take math 230a, you might take it with him. As for the subject, I would recommend everyone considering a career in math to take it at some point, even if for breadth of knowledge.
