This course will teach a beginning mathematician how to write much better proofs.
This was my favorite class the semester I took it. You cover some really cool stuff and it's a nice break from the type of math I was doing in my other, more mainstream math classes.
The class is very theoretical - you spend most of the time learning new definitions and how to use them. It is not very applicable in other math classes but may be interesting on its own. Plus probably if you take the next course the stuff get more interesting when it's pass basic definitions level.
This class is a relaxed introduction to mathematical logic. I would think that to really appreciate this course you probably ought to have taken proof based math classes before, as a main theme you study is the relationship between proof and truth, and while you could probably follow along and do just fine without really having done all that much proof based mathematics before, you probably wouldn't care nearly as much.With that being said, if you have, the material is super exciting, as I at least would never have suspected that one could prove as many things about provability as one can. Very cool stuff, you ought to shop it, though bear in mind the class gets more challenging and interesting later on in the semester, for better or for worse! (for better :p )
Really great class! You learn a lot about the foundations upon which math is built, cool stuff like Godel's Incompleteness Theorem (two versions!), and it's all quite related to CS also (although the relationships aren't explicitly mentioned in this course, take something like CS 121/124/125 and you'll see the interconnections. It also doesn't require much time, the psets are 2 or 3 hours a week and the exams are fairly easy. So, what's there to lose? Take it!
Take this class if you'd like a introduction into the foundations of mathematics. It doesn't really get into the nitty gritty of things, but it's a good introduction.
Take any class you can with Prof. Sacks.
Math 141 is a great class and Prof Sacks is a great teacher.
the class is awesome!
Whether you like this course and get anything out of it will completely depend on how you like Sacks' teaching style. I liked it, but I could see how others might not. You'll be able to tell from the first lecture whether it works for you.
Might be too easy for those already with set theory backgrounds.
The course is both hard and easy, some problems take a long time and are very tough, some take very little time and are somewhat easy.
You have to tell a joke at least once during the semester, in the middle of class. Professor Sacks is ALWAYS entertaining, and the material is quite interesting.
This class is great for people who have a lot of background in math or logic, or for those who, like me, have comparatively less.
light workload, and interesting material.
It's not a lot of work, but you need to go to class in order to get the definitions.
Make sure you have worked with formal mathematics before.
If you have a sense of humor and enjoy pizza, this class is for you
This course is both interesting and immensely entertaining.
This will be very different without Sachs; ask around about the new prof rather than simply the course.
The logistics are pretty different with versus without Sacks, who is retiring, but I'd still generally recommend the course.  The material itself is interesting and a great way to build up your proof skills.
This is an exceptionally strange class -- I don't think I've ever taken one like this at Harvard. I don't think I understood about 99% of the course material, and much of lecture felt like I was copying hieroglyphics from a wall. This was true of the entire semester. If you do want to stand a chance of understanding anything, you'll have to be extremely comfortable with proof-based, abstract (seriously, ABSTRACT) math. However, having a class with Professor Sacks, who routinely tells stories of his encounters with Godel, as well as every other important logician alive in the last ~70 years, makes the class worth it. And, of course, there must be a joke told in the middle of every class. Take this course for the experience (and the fact that there are no exams, and it's very easy to do well, regardless) -- if your goal is to learn real material, I'd try a different course. But as it is, I'll never forget taking this one.
It's not really a formal course in anything.  It's nice to have a very laid-back class, but ultimately I would have found it more fulfilling had there been some semblance of structure or a cohesive curriculum.  I would think about what exactly you're trying to get out of the course before enrolling.
If you take this course, don't expect to understand much after October. But Sacks is a total boss and it's worth taking for his stories and the low workload.
If Gerald Sacks is teaching this course, and you need to take an easy/fun upper division math course for concentration credit, take this course.  It has a very low workload, and Sacks is a fantastic guy.
Logic is the bedrock of mathematics.  It's worth knowing.
The material is hard. No, seriously. Professor Sacks tries to make it incredibly accessible and the books that the CA recommends make it a little easier, but this is hard material that you will be learning.
it's a once-in-a-lifetime experience. you know you have to take a class with sacks before you graduate. and once you take it, you will also know you should take one and only one class with him.
