If you love math, this is the class to take. Tasho is amazing!
This course is very intense. The material is very hard and the problem sets require a thorough understanding of the lectures and a good deal of creativity. That said, Professor Kaletha is a wonderful lecturer. His notes (which the students have to copy from the blackboard in class) are extremely well organized and he is always willing to answer all questions in class, after the lectures, or in his office hours. I highly doubt I will ever encounter a professor as good as Tasho Kaletha, so if he is teaching this course and you are willing to do all the work, definitely consider taking this course.
Very hard and time consuming course but Professor Khaleta is simply amazing at building concepts from scratch - and he's funny
It is a lot of work but very rewarding.
Please be wary of taking this course.  While this course is brilliant, especially with Professor Kaletha, it really is a huge time commitment and will take over your life.  If you want to participate in many extracurriculars and take other difficult and time-consuming classes at the same time, you might want to opt out of this course.
Math 25 is the best taught and most thoughtfully constructed introduction to abstract math one can imagine. Think of it as abstract math bootcamp. The more mathematical maturity you have going in, the less the class will reward you in the first few weeks, but by the end of the term, all students will have vastly improved their mathematical skills.
it is a good course if you are ready for it
I would recommend some sort of background with linear algebra first, but otherwise this class was a ton of fun and I really learned a lot.
I had a blast in this class.  It was very difficult, and took up much more time that any of my other classes, but I learned so much interesting math, and can tell I'm a much much better mathematician now than I was when I started.  If you love abstract math, and are willing to spend a lot of time on it, you will probably love this class.
If you're considering a class lower than 25, please try out 25. It's worth the experience. Proof-based mathematics is beautiful and this is a transformative introduction.
Math 25a is a rigorous and fun linear algebra course.
This course is excellent if you are looking to concentrate in maths and want a serious challenge. Otherwise it'll probably just drain you of all your time and energy.
Definitely a challenging course, Math 25 pushes everyone at some time or another. I often found myself wondering why any of this mattered, and I doubt I would have had the will-power to persist on the problem sets had I not really appreciated the beauty of mathematics. Nevertheless, I have no regrets at having taken it, and I believe that this experience will make future academic struggles feel more tame.
This course will consume your life. If you are actually interested in pure math, then this course is great for you since you will come out with a very in depth understanding and tasho is a great instructor. However, if you don't have that intellectual interest in math and want to go into an area (CS) that requires a math 21/23/25, then I HIGHLY recommend that you just take 21/23 instead since this class actually becomes impossible. Even for people who have experience with math olympiads, this class is not for everything.
This class is difficult, but if you invest a fairly obscene amount of time into it, you will be well rewarded.
Very difficult, takes up tons of time, but interesting
At times this class seems pointlessly challenging.   Homework problems are often things we didn't discuss in class, which would be fine except that there is literally no textbook to reference when you don't understand a homework problem unrelated to what we did in class.  Other than that this is a great class and you will come out of it realizing you learned a lot.
it's a lot of work, this will be your hardest class
You will be challenged in this class. At first I thought of this as a knockoff of 55, but it's quite difficult however you look at it. Chances are you won't find this too easy. I hear it's better taught than 23, so if you're looking for a real challenge with quite a few proofs on your weekly psets, this is for you.
This is an amazing class. It builds literally everything up from the most basic axioms and proves everything. There is no better class to get an introduction to proof based math
The course may seem at first a daunting one, maybe just because of the sheer level of formality with which the topics are presented. However, the proof-based approach to the subject is an extremely rewarding one, at least in my opinion. I actually found that after taking just one semester of math 25 my confidence with abstract mathematical concepts improved so much that I was able to explore different fields on my own (e.g. group theory, exterior algebra) knowing that I had the adequate background necessary to understand the basics of them. Also, Professor Kaletha was great - a very good lecturer and an excellent mathematician to say the least. He is also a very kind man, and really manages to get to know you well (at least mathematically speaking) by the end of the semester. I totally recommend this course to all the proof-oriented guys out there.
Good class, teaches linear algebra and a comprehensive and rigorous manner.
Take this class if you are interested in math because it was great. Do not take this class if you don't want to spend many hours a week on problems, sometimes working on a single problem for 2 or 3 hours.
Very good course for those who want to be pure mathematicians. However, if you plan to be in industry or more applied fields, one should definitely take Math 23. It does not matter if you already have taken linear algebra and feel that you would want to challenge yourself with Math 25a, one should take Math 23a regardless because it'll be more useful for your future studies.
This course is fantastic. Tasho is an amazing lecturer and he has structured the course very well. He is also very funny and makes the class fun. Over the year, you build up math from the basic concepts and it flowers into amazing results. There's plenty of work to be put in, but it is very rewarding.
First off, this course was very difficult for me, even though I did well. Tasho told us in the beginning that in order to enjoy the process of Math 25 "consuming your life," you have to enjoy this kind of theoretical math. If you are interested in this course, shop and persevere! The math is fun, I promise. But do make sure you are interested, because you will spend many hours working on p-sets.Tasho is a fantastic lecturer, putting everything in order, motivating results, and answering questions clearly. That said, I often became lost during lectures and had to spend a great deal of time reviewing notes--it takes a few (or more than a few, for, say, Peano triples) reviews to actually understand why a certain step in a proof is the way it is.In this class we didn't really use a textbook (although the recommended one is Linear Algebra Done Right by Axler); learning was mostly from problem sets and notes review. Actual matrix processes, such as row reduction, aren't emphasized (except for Jordan Normal Form, of course) but you do need to know them, so that's something useful to pick up in preparation. The course assistants in this class were very dedicated and helpful--if you go to their office hours (or Math Night in Quincy) with questions, they offer great help. They're also very nice.As for math experience, I took Linear Algebra online last year and that gave invaluable intuition into some things. Previous exposure to concepts is always useful. However, some of my friends in the class came in with no proof experience and did great--it's up to you.Obviously you'll meet some cool people in this class and make math friends, which are the best kind of friends. This was a very rewarding course.
A great and rigorous course for learning proof-based linear algebra, for those who are willing to make the time commitment.
Curve is harsh relative to the difficulty of the course.
If you've only taken BC Calculus, this course is doable but very difficult. I spent a ton of time with all nighters on psets and understanding the material and got lost at some point of every class. However, in the end I felt that I had learned and understood the material and had covered a lot of ground by taking the course. The teaching staff are great even if the material has to be presented very quickly. Also it does get much more difficult after the first weeks, though the early psets can also be very tough. Finally, only take the course if you really care about learning abstract math, because this class won't even teach you all the numerical concepts taught in the 21 and 23 levels.
Be aware that it will consume your life. But you won't mind so much because it is pretty cool.
Don't take this class just for the appearance of "seeming smart". This class is very difficult, and you should take this only if it's absolutely useful to your concentration or if you're deeply interested in the field. Take note: this class is closer to 55 in difficulty than it is to 23. Nevertheless, it is extremely rewarding albeit challenging.
This course is the primary course if you decide to take it. Expect to work a lot. Professor Kaletha is an amazing lecturer though. He makes this course a fun one. Reread the notes and try to understand stuff intuitively and not just by definitions. It helps a lot as soon as you start solving problems.
If you're a real math whiz, you'll do well easily. But this is Harvard, so you're only a real math whiz if you've medaled at an International Math Olympiad. For real people: you should a) have experienced the thrill of a good proof at least once and b) be willing to work very hard. From there anyone can do it. I came in with Calc BC and a bit of number theory, put in over 30h/week on the p-sets, and did quite well. Most of my peers were in a similar boat. Some people are naturally very good at math and can do all the work quickly and easily. Most people will struggle at some point. If you take this class and are not a whiz, take the rest of your schedule gently (avoid lab classes) and be prepared to spend Saturday evenings in the library.
If you take on the challenge (and have not learned this material before) you will change your view of mathematics.
The course is very difficult, but in terms of what is learned by the end of it, the struggle is well worth it; Jordan Normal form is beautiful. But go in with dedication and love for math. You need to really love math in order to do well at all, or to enjoy yourself at all. Don't be afraid if you put in far more time than you did in your math class in high school, and don't be scared if you feel like you put in far more time than your peers. 1) This is college, and it's nothing like high school. This is a real math class. 2) Ignore your peers, it's not about them. The course is about you and Math, it's about you trying and struggling and failing and struggling more and succeeding to understand. It's about appreciating something that is truly beautiful. And if your happiness is dictated by your performance in comparison to your peers, you're thinking about it wrong. It's about you and Math. That's all there is.

Come in with grit, and determination, and love, because Math requires all of those things from you. If you do, it won't disappoint.
Math 25 was an incredibly rewarding course. I learned how to really think analytically and develop a passion for math. Though it can be very challenging at times, it all pays off in the end, and I know for a fact that I came out of the class much more confident in my ability than I came into it.
Make no mistake- this course is very challenging for almost anyone, even those with substantial high school math background. The problem sets generally take an average of 1-2 hours per problem to solve (each pset averages around 10 problems), and unlike in any high school math class, understanding the material requires a consistent and significant effort to review the material several times after each lecture. This, on top of problem sets, makes this class easily take up 15-20 hours per week, or potentially even more. That being said, if you enjoy math and are willing/able to put in the time, the course is infinitely rewarding because it allows you to appreciate the beauty of mathematics since the course starts from "naive set theory" and proceeds to some extremely elegant results in linear algebra. If Prof. Kaletha is teaching, be sure to take extremely careful notes because there is no textbook or online notes, which sounds like a bad thing in some ways, but actually it's really helpful in forcing you to be precise- and precision is key to succeeding in Math 25. Good luck!
This course requires a significant amount of work but will give you a really strong understanding of linear algebra and give you the opportunity to work with very smart students.
Kaletha goes hard--Math 25a this year is definitely more difficult than it used to be, but still it is very intellectually inviting and intriguing. Just as Kaletha said, the study of math is not that you look at the material and understand it. Often you look at it and say "what the hell" and look at it again and say "what the hell" and look for the third time and start to understand it. But when you finally get it, the feeling of accomplishment is fantastic! If you're interested in math, definitely take this class!
If Tasho is teaching this class again, definitely take it. I've heard good things about Gross and Gaitsgory, but Tasho was awesome.
Very difficult. Long and difficult psets, but good lectures.
If you want to learn math really well, take this class! It will make you smarter. Above all things, come in with a good attitude and be ready to tackle ideas that may not make sense immediately, but with enough effort they eventually do and are enjoyable to grasp the nuances of.
Push through it and you will not regret it.
Be prepared to work really hard, but also be hugely rewarded by that hard work.
Be careful of the extreme difficulty of the problem sets in this course.There is no book of section notes and it requires a heavy amount of work that will override all of your other courses and extracurriculars.
If Tasho is teaching this course, absolutely take it. You'll have to work hard, but you will be thoroughly rewarded.
Enter with caution.
If you're interested in math and have either taken a linear algebra class or done contest math, Math 25 is probably the right level for you. The first few weeks are generally pretty easy compared to the rest of the course, so be wary for that.
Math 25a is challenging, but doable. I did not have extensive experience in proof-based mathematics before taking this course, but gained a new appreciation for math and a better ability after taking it. Plan to devote a good amount of time to this class. I would have benefited from not having too many other obligations that caused me to often cram the material and assignments into small time slots.
This course was very well taught. The professor is very friendly and always willing to help; his office hours helped me clear up so many of my questions. The class covers linear algebra in a very formal way and was very valuable. That said, the time commitment is steep and the work was difficult. You should be willing to work hard for this class. Overall, I really enjoyed this class and if you have some interest in formal math you should definitely consider it.
25a is the most rewarding class I have taken. I was probably among those with the most limited background, having done virtually no proofwriting beforehand. However, by the end of the semester writing proofs was second-nature, and the breadth and depth of the material covered was phenomenal. If you are considering 23 because you are unsure if you have the background for 25, take 25. If you are considering 23 because you are unsure if you want to put the work in for 25, strongly consider the difference in quality and material between the two courses. Perhaps most importantly, 25 will teach you to think solely in the abstract. Gaining understanding from examples and visuals can be advantageous, but I now feel that it is secondary to gaining a complete, abstract notion of a topic. The former is, of course, closer to the approach of 23, while the latter is that of 25.
be prepared for hard times and a lot of work and late nights
The course with Prof. Kaletha was a great experience and I learned an incredible amount. About Linear Algebra specifically and about general techniques which are more broadly applicable.
The Mathematics Department website described this class as one where "homework can take from seven to fifteen hours per week to complete." I would argue that this year, the course was far harder than anyone could have imagined. As a possible math concentrator, I was very interested and excited for a mathematical challenge. After having taken this course, I realize that mathematics was far more difficult than I could have imagined. I spent around twenty to thirty hours a week on this course, and so did most other students. By far, this was the course this semester where I felt that I definitely learned the most. I definitely appreciate just how much I came to understand about linear algebra. But in terms of recommendations, unless you are willing to put in boatloads of work and are extremely interested in mathematics, you may not want to take this course, especially if someone new is teaching it.
Although the course will definitely be different since Kaletha is leaving next year, it's a fantastic introduction to linear algebra and mathematical thinking -- the class forces you to understand the underpinnings of how linear algebra works, and also made sure that students were familiar with computing things. Although rather fast-paced, there was plenty of time to ruminate on the material and become very comfortable with the material (as opposed to what I've heard about Math 55, for example).
This class is great! You learn so much and you can feel your brain expand as the class goes on. It's pretty hard and demanding but as long as you're willing to commit a good chunk of time to it you'll be fine. It is very abstract for the most part, so if you're looking to be more of an applied math guy and haven't already taken Multivariable/Linear I would take 21 or 23 instead. But, in general, if you like math, take this class and you won't regret it! Tasho rocks and math is fun.
This is a great class that covers a lot of linear algebra and the camaraderie of the class is incredible, BUT IS EXTREMELY DIFFICULT. If you did not take linear algebra in high school, even if you were USAMO-level, I would recommend taking a lower level math class. There's no reason to kill yourself freshman fall with math. It was a great learning experience but also added a lot of stress, not to mention a deflated ego.
Don't be afraid to take on the challenge, especially if you're thinking about concentrating in pure math or some science. It will cause some headaches, but you might realize that your mathematical aptitude is far beyond what you expected.
Take this class if you like math and you're good at it.  If you're even remotely considering concentrating in math or a related field, take this class.  Be prepared to work hard though.  The work load is definitely manageable, and you'll get into a rhythm.
This course was difficult, but rewarding. I would encourage anyone who wants to go into math, physics, or even computer science to take this course.
This is a great course. You learn a ton, not just about linear algebra but about math. About how real math works and about how real math classes work. If you stick with it you won't regret it. Coincidentally you need to put in a ton of work. And a ton of your own work. There is no textbook so your notes are the text book. So you need to take notes. You make your experience in this class.
This class is great!
Tough as tits
This class is very well taught and you will end up learning a lot about linear algebra, proof writing, and abstract thinking. Material may be difficult to understand at first but a month later when you look back at your notes you realize that old material seems trivial. Doing the problems sets was the most work I have ever put into a class but the results were well worth it. Professor Kaletha is a great teacher and really cares that students learn the material.
TAKE THIS COURSE. If you do not hate pure math, give it a try. This course is a wonderful choice. Professor Kaletha is amazing. Honestly, I think that in terms of math the course material does not matter that much - the professor matters a lot. I sometimes stay at his office hour for an extra hour, and he patiently answered all my questions without complaining about not having dinner. Prof Kaletha knows exactly at what point of the proof we may feel confused about and he would explain super-clearly. If you see prof Kaletha's course next time, just take it. I came here thinking about being a Gov or Social Studies major, but this course made me seriously consider doing math.
Your life will be changed by this class, especially if you come into it straight from AP Calc - I will never see math the same way again. The bulk of the class is writing proofs, which can be a bit non-intuitive but also elegant and enlightening. Be prepared to struggle quite a bit and to devote a significant portion of your life to this course, but the TFs and Professor Kaletha are always there to support you and to help explain things that are a bit fuzzy, and  you'll make some incredibly close friends, bonded by the adversity of weekly p-sets. If you like plug-and-chug math, run away from this class as fast as your legs can carry you, but if you want to understand what mathematics is really all about, then look no further than this.
It is difficult but very rewarding
I've learned a ton at the expense of GPA. That said, I feel like I wasn't nearly as prepared as others.
It's a difficult course, especially under Tasho Kaletha. Expect to spend upwards of 15 hrs a week on the material, but it's definitely a worthwhile course.
This course is difficult. There is a lot of work, and you have to put in a lot of time going over the notes from class in order to understand what is happening. However, if you do, then you will come out of the class with a pretty good understanding of basic linear algebra. The problem sets will generally take a lot of time during the week, but there should be at least a few problems on each set that are genuinely interesting. Try to find a good balance of doing the problem sets alone and with a good group of people. Don't fall into the trap of working with a group only to find that you are getting the answers without really understanding what is going on. Professor Kaletha is a fantastic teacher. He really cares about his students. He took many of our suggestions about the course, slowing down and altering the form of the course as necessary. His office hours are generally very crowded, both because he is excellent at explaining material one-on-one, but also because he is just a really nice guy that people want to get to know. Overall, if you plan on doing something that is related to math or physics, then this course will definitely be worthwhile. It is not a course I would recommend for those who have to take a math course but who aren't really interested in learning math for math's sake.
Again, I think you just have to be interested in math and willing to take a challenging course, and if you are, then you'll get a lot out of the course.
This isn't the 25a of years past. This course is very, very hard. Kaletha is a superb lecturer, and the material is usually extremely interesting. But think seriously about whether this course is right for you if you do not have serious mathematical maturity/background. You will gain the most from the class if you've taken linear algebra already, and want to gain further insight into the material. Remember how crucial it is to review lecture notes constantly, and do not work on the psets alone. Prepare to see a lot of material very quickly, and expect you might find yourself lost along the way, or occasionally stare at a problem you have no clue how to start. Ultimately a worthwhile but very challenging experience.
Apparently, this year's class was harder than most, so my experience is not representative of what any future experiences might be. That said, this course was killer. Realistically, if you feel that you can keep on top of the material by spending copious amounts of time reviewing it, you'll be fine. Otherwise, it will probably be a struggle.
This course is incredibly well-taught, and you will learn quite a bit of linear algebra. The problems sets are very long, but they are not too challenging. I highly recommend using the Princeton Math 217 notes for reference, as they very closely match what we learn in class. Professor Kaletha is an awesome professor, and a genuinely funny guy.
I would really recommend this course *to those with a good math background.*  In particular, it helps to be proficient with proofs.  You learn a lot in this course and it can come pretty quickly.  Also, this is different from other linear algebra courses in that it's not very computation-heavy.  While it is a lot of work, the psets really do help you fully understand the content.
Aside from that, I've made some really great friends in this course as well.
Be ready to struggle.  It's a great class for those that know what they want, and what they want is a challenge.  The course material was extremely interesting, the professor was great, and I had a great experience until I got my midterm grade back.  Just know what you are getting yourself into.  If you want a mathematical challenge, this is the class for you.
It will be the most important and hardest class in your schedule, but if you love math it is a great course to take where putting in the work is very rewarding.
This course varies a lot according to its teacher but Math 25a under Kaletha was amazing. Sometimes with higher math, the notation can get in the way of what is actually going on but the way Kaletha taught it, you could really use the notation to work for you on even on the most difficult problems.
This is probably the most difficult class I've ever taken, though I don't regret it for a second. Professor Kaletha made the course a whole lot more difficult than it was in past years, so a lot of my experience comes from having the increased difficulty of 25. Make sure to go to sections early and get a solid foundation of earlier concepts and problems, so that later stuff is easier to tackle. If you are looking into math/physics as a possible concentration, I highly recommend this class.
This was an absolutely fantastic class. It is worth the work and very doable despite the difficulty at times.  Kaletha was marvelous, and I find it unfortunate that he will probably not be teaching the class in the future. Also, the CA's are great and tend to understand your issues as almost all took the class the year previously. Problem sets can take a while and by no means are they easy (that actually depends on the teacher), but they really reinforce your understanding and improve your formal proof-writing ability. Ultimately, if you are interested in theoretical math and willing to put in some time (10-20 hours a week is honestly not too terrible), this a great class and I wholeheartedly recommend it.
The lectures and psets will challenge you, but in the end it's definitely worth it. Kaletha was a truly outstanding professor, and the CAs were friendly and on point. Definitely take this class if you want to jump into higher mathematics. If you're ready to devote the time to it, Math 25 is very rewarding!
Absolutely fantastic class if you're willing to put the time in
Everything you've heard about this class is probably true. It's phenomenal. The math you learn is beautiful. Gross is an unbelievably fabulous lecturer. It is true that this class is hard. My only preparation was BC calc. and I had never written a proof before. If you're in my boat, take courage. It's totally doable and you won't believe how much you learn. That said, I am so cheerful about it for two reasons: 1) I completely didn't care about my grade and 2) the CAs were wonderful. I found one who was an extremely good teacher and was willing to go through basics of proofs and redo psets with me and I completely abused his kindness.  On deciding between 25 and 23: because I was unsure whether I had a strong enough background for this class, I went to the first 2.5 weeks of both. For me, the choice was between lectures I was unfailingly excited to go to and lectures I quickly came to dread. 23 has this giant packet of lecture outlines and the philosophy seemed to be to just fill in as much detail as you could and think about it/try to understand it later, which I found pretty repugnant. Especially considering that 25 is supposed to move faster but Gross still made a point of backtracking and going back over difficult parts of proofs if we weren't following (which isn't to say you didn't have to go back through lecture notes and ponder everything again - you were just supposed to be thinking all the time). I would also add that, even though I had never written a proof, in 25 I learned how to do so by actually just writing proofs for new results on the psets, and I found this far more rewarding than reciting proofs from lecture with this complicated and bizarre system of points and things (the 23 approach). If you're thinking about this class because you love math, just take it. It's worth it.
This class is wonderful, and Professor Gross is fantastic. It's challenging but doable, especially if you have some experience with proofs or linear algebra.
While it is a hard class, it was a great experience. If Professor Gross is teaching it again, he is an incredible lecturer.
If you have any doubts, just take this class.  You learn so much, and Gross is definitely one of the best math teachers out there.  The entire staff is awesome and will do whatever it takes to help you out.  While it is good to have a background in the material, I think the Axler/Gross approach to linear algebra is pretty beginner-friendly, so don't be scared to give 25 a try.  Math 25 was probably my favorite class this semester.  Highly recommend it.
Professor Gross is one of the best lecturers.
Its too much work for your freshman fall. Unless you are very interested in math/concentrating be very hesistant. I only took it because I didn't like the Math 23 professor. Just take an easier class and have a life.
If you are trying to decide between 23 and 25 (or even 21, 23, or 25), I would definitely tell you to take 25 with Gross because he is such an amazing professor. He makes going to lecture fun, and the exams are all very fair, with no intention to try to kill you. He wants everyone to do well. That being said, it is difficult, but the experience of taking a class with Gross is well worth it.
If you are looking for a proof based introductory math course, definitely take this one, especially if Professor Gross is teaching it again.
Very engaging class - prof. Gross is very charismatic, which is a rarity for Mathematicians. It is difficult, however, particularly if you have not taken proof based math or linear algebra before.
This is a great class, but it will require you to work hard. Be ready for that.
If Professor Gross is teaching this class, you should take it. I'm not going to lie; there is a sizable workload. However, if you can handle it, you'll gain a great understanding of Linear Algebra and proof-based mathematics.
Axler is a great textbook and Gross is a great teacher. You must really like math to take it. Also, this class is perfect difficulty-wise if a) you've taken linear algebra before or b) you've just had Calc BC and/or multivariable calc, but have done well in math competitions/math research. I fell into both categories, so it was easier than I expected; certainly would not have taken Math 55, but I would have taken harder other classes than I did.
If you love proofs and want to know if you want to be a math concentrator, you should check this class out. However, if you want to learn linear algebra for its applications, look elsewhere.
It is challenging but ultimately rewarding and educational. The approach taken by Math 25a is unlike other freshman mathematics courses, and really emphasizes a ground-up approach to hone a better understanding of the material.
TAKE THIS CLASS, if taught by Professor Gross, there should be no hesitation. The psets are time consuming and hard, but the tests are extremely fair. He expects everyone to get 100, and usually the average is around 85-90 and about 15-20% of the class gets above a 95.
This class is AWESOME. Definitely recommended if you have a strong competition math background. Gross is an excellent teacher, he is very thorough and really cares about every single one of his students. He bring in a very optimistic attitude to his teaching. Definitely take it if he's teaching again. The book itself is beautifully written and will really help you mathematically mature.
Although very challenging, especially for those coming in with little or no background in linear algebra, this class is also extremely fascinating and rewarding. Will take a lot of time, but definitely worth it in the end. And if Gross is teaching, he is an awesome lecturer who really cares about his students. Overall, an amazing experience.
If you're in between Math 23 and 25, just go for 25!  You learn how to think like a mathematician so much more, and Professor Gross is such an amazing lecturer.  Sure, the problem sets may be more difficult on average, and the material will be more difficult, but you'll end up putting into the class the same amount of work and being more immersed in this one.
This class is completely doable if you haven't seen linear algebra before. My high school only offered up to BC, but I never felt disadvantaged because others had taken multi/linear in high school; the course is very thorough and starts with the basics. The class is also pretty flexible with proofs, so you don't have to come in having written them before (make good friends and learn from them or the CAs).Timewise, this course requires some work. If you're taking this course with Physics 16 or CS50, you're going to feel a little pressure, since those courses suck up the rest of the week (not math). And if you're crazy enough to do both (or a similarly heavy course) on top of this, be prepared to hammer out the pset over a weekly late night/all-nighter (with friend hopefully). But if that's where your interests truly lie, it's totally worth it.Last, you're going to learn all of this awesome math from an awesome professor, but like 1 or 2 (albeit cool) applications. I really didn't like the teaching style of 23 (personal preference), but this is something you might consider.
If you've never taken a proof-based class, make sure you have the willpower and motivation to learn how to write proofs. The first couple of psets will be difficult because you won't know where to start in terms of writing a proof. However, as you progress, you'll get the hang of it. Also, try to get as much help from Professor Gross and the CA's. They're really helpful when trying to finish psets and understanding the concepts.
This class was one of the best experiences of freshman fall. Despite the often late hours to do the psets on Thursday evenings/nights, you will learn so much and bond with classmates over the shared struggles (finding a study group is essential to being as successful as possible, especially if you have no background in theoretical math). Also, Professor Gross is simply a fantastic lecturer, and is enough reason to take this class.
Definitely worth the time you spend working on this class.
Be prepared to work hard for this course and to be rewarded by your hard work.
Don't be discouraged if you don't have as much experience with advanced math as most people in the class. It's totally possible to take this as your first linear algebra and/or proof-based course (I came in with just BC Calc), as long as you're prepared to do some catching up in the first few weeks. Any initial discomfort is worth it, since this class is FANTASTIC. Professor Gross is the best teacher I've ever had, which is a huge part of why this course is so great. He's incredibly knowledgeable and enthusiastic about what he teaches, and even when the assignments get really tough, it's impossible to be bitter about it because lectures are so much fun. Definitely take this class!
A fabulous course ! The lectures given by Pr. Gross are the best part; he is a brilliant lecturer. The course started linear algebra from scratch, which I am eternally grateful for, as I had very little background in the particular subject. However a good foundation in proof based mathematics is a good thing to have if you want to take the course.Homework is certainly an investment. Almost all the questions are proofs, and they sometimes got pretty tough towards the end. Midterm weeks always come with a pset (but are then following by a week with no assignments), so be ready for a couple intense weeks.I loved all the material, especially determinants. A good bunch of classes give examples of how to apply linear algebra. That is when you realize just how cool it is. Rigorous, organized and interesting, the course is great.
If you are thinking about taking this course, TAKE IT.  You will not regret it.  Once you get used to the problem sets (after the first week or two) the workload is really not that bad and Professor Gross does such a good job explaining everything that it will feel so much easier than it a course at this level should.  (And you will get really good at proofs taking this course!)
If you did well in Calc BC but haven't done much (or any) linear and/or abstract algebra before/aren't yet 55 level, definitely take this class. Especially if Gross is teaching it - he is one of the best professors ever. The problem sets are challenging but not difficult, especially if you collaborate with others, which you are encouraged to do. You do need to be able to write proofs though, but you don't need fully developed proof-writing skills. As long as you can write simpler ones and can understand fairly complex ones, you should have no problem learning them as you go along.
You have to really like maths.
I very nearly switched to 23 after a few weeks, and I'm so glad I didn't.  23 is definitely (as someone else put it) the awkward middle ground between 21 and 25, and should be avoided.  If you don't have much experience with proofs or theoretical math (like I didn't), this course will give you a run for your money at first, and you may be tempted to drop it.  Gradually though, you will get a lot more comfortable, and Professor Gross is worth the initial struggle.  Plus, his tests are very doable. If you want more than 21, take this class.
Professor Gross is about as great a professor as you can get.  The course will strain you in varying degrees depending on your level of experience with proof-based mathematics, but I would highly recommend to math majors.  Frankly, having seen the utter misery and ultimate lack of serious comprehension induced by Math 55 (namely to people who want to take it out of pride but aren't fully mature enough to handle it), I would highly recommend this course to prospective math majors.
Very doable class with very relevant material.  It does get a tad dry at times, but Professor Gross is amazing.
Gross is fantastic!
If you're interested in math and have some fluency with proofs, you have to take this course! Professor Gross is such an incredible lecturer, and his approach to teaching makes even the more complicated proofs seem so intuitive. Furthermore, he takes time each lecture to review some important concepts he brought up the lecture before, so the class never seems too fast-paced. With regards to the course material, it's interesting and challenging but not overwhelming. Some weeks will be more difficult than others, but in general, the amount of work required per week holds relatively constant. And you'll learn a lot!
A good course if you feel you have the background and that you have a good memory and a fast mind.
It is hard, but will be worth it if you have an interest and want to work hard.
This is absolutely the best class I've taken this year. Gross is a phenomenal lecturer, engaging and really cares about making the students understand linear algebra, even though he's doing research so many tiers above this. And he really cares about making his students passionate about math also. The psets took me a lot of time, but I didn't really internalize all of the course material until that Friday when I had to do them. I'd suggest maybe starting early, attending all of the possible sections if there's anything at all that you don't understand (the TFs are brilliant).Overall. Take. this. class.
Professor Gross is amazing! I would definitely recommend this class if he is still teaching it next year. Be prepared to work hard, but if you go to section and review the notes after lecture the class is definitely doable even without any experience in linear algebra.Also, Professor Gross is amazing.
This course is a lot of work but it's not nearly as intimidating as some of the descriptions on the math department website.
Gross is a fantastic lecturer.  He moves at a fast pace that will certainly prepare you for future math classes.  If you have taken linear algebra before, you may want to consider shopping 55.  I had, and the class was ultimately very easy.  The homework was not usually challenging, but it did still take a while and there was certainly at least one very demanding problem per homework.  You will have a great time in 25 no matter what.  Make sure to talk to Professor Gross, he is super friendly!!!
This is a tough math course, but it's doable. I never had proof-based experience before this course, and while the first three or four weeks proved difficult, I now feel like I can write effective proofs. I was between this course and Math 23, and am definitely glad I chose Math 25--Gross is the best lecturer you will ever have, and the class teaches how to write proofs, not so much memorize proofs as in 23. Take 25!
1) It's not a very traditional approach to linear algebra. You begin with virtually nothing. Starting with naive set theory, you lay the foundations for whatever is taught in the course. It's very worthwhile, but I'd recommend some familiarity with linear algebra beforehand (the textbook does explicitly as well).2) DICK GROSS IS AMAZING! Take this course even for the professor only. His lectures are very helpful and easy to follow. It makes the material very accessible overall.3) The course is somewhat slow. This year we didn't really finish our textbook and we didn't discuss any topology like the year before. You learn everything solidly, but you certainly don't learn everything. You'll especially have to be mindful of applications of linear algebra that you'll have to teach yourself.
Non-trivial class.
It is an amazing course - just make sure this course is the right course for you!
This course is wonderful if you are a person who did fairly well in math during high school and who is willing to commit a substantial amount of time and energy.  I would argue that a linear algebra background, while not necessary, can certainly give you an advantage in this course.  The class is thought provoking, and, under Professor Gross, well taught.  Experience with proofs is essential, as every problem set contains about 13 and little instruction on writing proofs is provided.
Great course, if you're thinking about math 23, then just do this. I don't think it's any more challenging once you get the hang of it, and it's so much more well taught.
1)	Math 25 is a great course, but you should really rethink taking it if you dont plan on doing any higher math.2)	I entered the course having done proof-based math but not linear algebra; most will have done linear algebra but not proofs. Id recommend having done at least one or the other. Of course, there are some who enter without either, so go for it if you shop the course and feel up for the challenge / prepared enough!3)	Make use of the CAs! Get to know each of them early on the semester, and, if you are lucky, you will have at least one who is willing to go above and beyond their job description and give you extra help.4)	Never puzzle over something (concept, homework problem, etc.) alone. It is a lot more time-efficient to figure it out with a classmate, seek out a CA, or stay after lecture to ask Prof. Gross about it.5)	Do problem sets with other people! It might take a while to find a person / group you work well with, but it is well worth it to take that time identifying that person / group. It will save you time in the long run, and explaining things to one another will truly help all of you master the material.6)	Read the comments you get on your homework, and ask the CAs how you should have done the problem differently if you got points taken off. It will help you improve! 7)	Done right, the exams (at least the midterms) should be a lot easier than the problem sets. Professor Gross is very fair; he wants you to do well. You wont have to provide any proofs that you havent already seen in lecture. Focus on the basic stuff. Before each exam, you should sit down and make a list of definitions and theorems  it will really help!8)	College math is not the same as high school math. Even if you went to a really competitive high school and took the highest-level math classes there, you will find that Math 25 is different. In high school, you may have covered material, but there is a difference between covering material and learning to think and stretch your math brain  which is exactly what you will be challenged to do in this course.9)	Finally, I spent a good chunk of the semester thinking that I was absolutely the dumbest person in the class. You might find yourself feeling that way too. The truth is that everyone else is secretly just as confused, if not more confused than you are. (Just ask the CAs  theyd concur from what they see on the homeworks.) Have a little confidence in yourself; youll do great!
Take Math25!!!! Prof. Gross is awesome :)
It is an awesome intro to linear algebra. It's also quite difficult, even for people with mathematics background. The best advice I can give about is that if the idea of taking it has run through your mind at least once (and why else are you reading the Q evaluations right now?), then shop the class. You'll see how awesome it is once you go there.Also, skipping lectures and sections is a bad idea in general, even with lecture notes posted online. Try to get yourself out of bed early enough, it will prove to be useful.
It's a great class, especially if you have an advanced math background, either from advanced math in high school or from outside opportunities, or from math competitions. Sure, the problem sets can take 10 hours, but start them early (on the weekend) and you should be fine. This class is much more conceptual, based on proofs rather than formulas.
This is a wonderful course in linear algebra. The subject is presented in a cohesive manner and the motivations for the developments and connections/applications to other areas of math are clear. The textbook is absolutely amazing; I don't think there are many of its caliber. The professor is also a great lecturer; he's very good at not just explaining the ideas but explaining how to think about them too. It was dazzling, and I'm seriously considering mathematics as a major now.Contrary to what was indicated to me at the concentrations fair thing near the beginning of the year, this class did not require a great deal of proof experience. You will learn along the way. I haven't had experience in either proofs or linear algebra before, and the course was entirely manageable for me.It was awesome!
This class is my favorite class that I have ever taken.  Professor Gross is a fantastic lecturer, and the material is very interesting.   If you are deciding between 25 and 23, take 25; you definitely will not regret it!
Excellent course.  Gross is an amazing lecturer and Axler's a good book, so you come out with a pretty deep understanding of linear algebra.  It's not that difficult if you have some experience with proofs.
The course itself is pretty difficult. I feel that an understanding of linear algebra and proof-based math is required.
It is rewarding, but if you don't feel confident about your performance, only take it if you don't care care too much about grades.
It's a nice course. You learn a lot but it helps to have previous experience with linear algebra.
This is one of those legendary classes.
Professor Gross is absolutely fantastic. The material is fairly straightforward, but for anyone looking for a challenging but not over the top math course, this is it.
Prof. Gross is AMAZING. His is such a great lecturer. GO TO LECTURE.
If you feel pretty comfortable with math and you're hovering between this course and 23, I would go with 25.
If you've had a semester's worth of proof-based college level math, this is most likely the right course for you. If you've had more or have done extensive preparation, then you might be comfortable in 55. If you're new to proofs, take 23.
OK, odds are if you're reading this you're a freshman and in that case, great, I think you should take it (if you're up for a challenge).If you're *not* a freshman, it's also a great course. But you should think about the other things you are doing this semester, and about how you are planning to manage things when stuff gets busy and you don't have time to finish your problem set, get to sleep, and wake up in time for lecture along with all the other course work you're pulling and the student orgs you're leading and the courses you're teaching or whatnot. It is still a good course, and very enjoyable. But it is *hard,* and it takes up a lot of time, and you need to not be naive and think that you can slide through it the way you slide through all your other stuff without doing the readings. Put it on your study card only if you're completely committed to what the course is going to throw at you.
This course will be challenging, unless you've gotten a truly rigorous treatment of linear algebra prior to coming to Harvard. The work will not always be easy, but it will be worth it. If you want to know more about linear algebra than how to manipulate matrices and apply them--if you want to gain some insight into why math works, rather than simply how math works, you should definitely consider taking this class. And if Professor Gross is teaching the course, he's one of the best lecturers you'll have here.
This course has taught me a lot about linear algebra from the foundations. Now I understand why matrices are cool, not boring!
Go over notes between class, and if you feel yourself falling behind, PLEASE go to office hours or something. I didn't do these things, and I found this class to be very difficult. The course starts out quite easy, like many courses; don't let this fool you. Put in the amount of work everyone says they put in so that you don't have to catch up on the material a day before the exams.
If you're interested in theoretical math, take this course! You have to be comfortable with proof-based math and with the fact that you won't be dealing with numbers anymore, just proofs. But if you stick with it, you'll learn some very beautiful math. It's also a great way to meet other people, because collaboration is strongly encouraged.
This class was really good and (I think) better organized than 23a. If you have even some previous experience with linear algebra and proofs, you should take 25a rather than 23a or 21a.
This is a great class for people who have a strong passion for math. You will need to be able to write proofs and be familiar with techniques (induction, proof by contradiction, how to prove an if-and-only-if, etc.) but it requires you to think about the mathematical topics much more deeply. His tests are actually quite easy (many questions are only about definitions or examples rather than lengthy and hard-to-find proofs).
Gross is an amazing professor. Definitely recommend taking this class. The psets and midterms are not too difficult as long as you have some experience with proofs and pay attention in lectures.
Professor Gross was an amazing lecturer, and this alone should attract you to the course. Though the problem sets were sometimes difficult, the tests were all very reasonable (more reasonable than the tests in 23 even). This will change year to year, so this only applies to Gross though.
Professor Gross's lectures are amazing. He makes taking this class extremely worthwhile because he is able to generate a great amount of enthusiasm for the course material.
I'll reiterate the list of all the good things about this course:- This course makes me appreciate the beauty/elegance of abstract mathematics. I hadn't thought that was possible. - It teaches students not only to write simple, concise mathematical proofs but also to think more rigorously and logically in general. - The problem sets are challenging, but with effort consistently comes rewards. - Tests are significantly easier than problem sets, and they're designed to allow us to demonstrate what we have learned in a limited time frame, not to make us flounder. - The course assistants are wonderfully available to answer students questions, whether via e-mail, IM, or face-to-face at office hours. - Last, but most certainly not least, Professor Gross's lectures are clear, engaging, sprinkled with humorous anecdotes, and memorable. Best math teacher ever.So many strengths. And even when I try, I cannot think of any real flaws.
If you want a challenging math course, but you don't want to go for 55, 25 is a nice option.  I highly recommend it if you have experience with proofs, even if you have already had multivariable calculus and linear algebra.
Professor Gross is a fantastic lecturer that inspires a deep desire to learn and understand. If he's teaching it, take this class.
Professor Gross is fantastic. His enthusiasm really generated enthusiasm from the class. The material was interesting, and the class definitely taught me how to think mathematically. PSETs are challenging, so be prepared to spend a lot of time on them. The exams are reasonable and doable.
If you hate computation and love ideas, take this class. Especially if Gross is the teacher. But even if he isn't, the entire philosophy of the course, as evidenced by the excellent textbook (Axler), should be compelling enough that any sufficiently motivated math student who wants to "understand" linear algebra should choose this over 21 or 23. Proof experience not necessary; the course eases you into writing them quite well.
Professor Gross is a fantastic lecturer that makes this class engaging and awesome.  It is highly difficult, and the problem sets definitely take a significant amount of work, but it is definitely worth it.
If Gross is teaching this, and you're into math, it's a no brainer
Great class. Lots of work but definitely more rewarding.
You will love this class if it is right for you, meaning that if you overreach yourself in order to take this class, it will ruin an otherwise fantastic experience. So, be careful when you pick your math class. Take the one that feels comfortable for you.
Not for the feint of heart, this course is a great investment for those interested in proof-based mathematics. If Professor Gross is still teaching this course it's guaranteed to be interesting, engaging, and very educational whatever your background with linear algebra might be. The PSets can be demanding at times, but the CAs are a great lifeline and are very helpful.
As long as Prof. Gross is teaching this class, you should take it.
The class was very good. Overall you learn a lot of linear algebra. Nonetheless the homework does take a good amount of time and can be frustrating at times.
While this course is quite challenging, I also found it interesting. I would recommend the course especially for those interested in theoretical math or physics. The workload is fairly extensive, but working on the problem sets is usually more fruitful with collaboration.
great class.
If you have any interest in theoretical math and have done some proof-writing before, I strongly recommend this class. Especially if Professor Gross is teaching it, since he is a fantastic lecturer. Don't be expecting much computation or solving actual problems, but as far as completely proof-based linear algebra goes, this class is great.
If you are debating between 25 and 55, they will tell you it's easy to switch during the first few weeks. It's not. The better plan is to go to both courses, do problem sets for both, and then decide. If you don't have time for all of that, then you don't have time for 55 anyway once it gets harder.
Definitely take it if you want a formal treatment of linear algebra but not as insane as Math 55.
Be prepared to work very, very hard. Incredibly rewarding.
The amount of time you need to spend on homework each week could vary anywhere from 3-20 hours a week (depending on your background in writing proofs and the difficulty of that particular problem set).
The course approaches linear algebra from a very conceptual angle--so much so that the computational elements almost get lost or forgotten about.  Professor Gross, however, does an excellent job of explaning difficult concepts in simple terms.
It is hard, but it is fun!
Take this class for Professor Gross - his teaching is clear and easy to understand, and moreover, his lectures are always entertaining.
Excellent course, but difficult (as it should be).
The joke goes: 23a is algebra with numbers, 25a is algebra with no numbers, and 55a is algebras, plural. And, to tell you the truth, it's more or less true.The top students in this course dropped down from Math 55; the bottom students entered with little to no background in algebra, or even formal proof. If you're anywhere between those extremes, but enjoy thinking about mathematics (or would like to learn how to think about mathematics), there's no better place to be.Gross is fantastic, the pacing of the course is perfect for someone with minimal background who's willing to hit the ground running, and the text used in class is great. After taking the course, I feel like I have a solid understanding of linear algebra -- certain to be useful in any field. tl;dr If you're a fan of math, take this class. No question. Be ready to work, but don't worry that you'll die. It's not 55.
This is a challenging and interesting class.
If Prof. Gross is teaching this course, it will be a very rewarding experience. His lectures are great and he knows how to organize the learning curve throughout the course. Compared to Math 55, the material is (obviously) more basic (although the course will probably go into topology towards the end) but considerably more thoroughly presented. Compared to Math 21, the course is more abstract and proof-based. Depending on your background, the homework will be from medium-easy to moderately hard but it will take an important amount of time regardless of experience. The exams tend to be considerably easier than the homework.
This is a great, but time consuming math course. Many of the students have been exposed to high level mathematics while in high school, and the problem sets can be quite difficult. However, you learn a lot and will have a great time doing so with Prof. Gross.
If you are hesitating between 23 and 25, you definitely want to look into this class, especially if it is taught by Prof. Gross! I was deciding between 23 and 25, and finally I decided to challenge myself, and now I am really comfortable in this class: I love the materials so much!You might be a bit lost in the first week, but you will soon catch up. Make sure you familiarize yourself with the terminology and denotations. Read course notes and understand every problem in the problem set. And reach out to CA's if you need help. You will be fine.
This class can be difficult, but it's absolutely worth the work. A very good course for those very interested in mathematics.
Definitely a great course if you want a good introduction to pure math without killing yourself with math 55. I started with no formal background in pure math but I felt that some former training would have helped. But having said that, I enjoyed the course anyway. Prof. Gross is an awesome lecturer!
Math 25 is fantastic. You will develop such an appreciation for math, logic, rigor, and beautiful proof-writing. Benedict Gross is an amazing lecturer and worth every bit of struggle alone. You will work hard, yes. This is by far the hardest math class I've ever taken. However, most likely you're coming in with a solid math background but not prepared for Math 55, and this class will either prove to you that you love math or make you realize that maybe it's just not your thing. I made a lot of friends, learned a lot, realized how much I love math, and had way more fun than if I had dropped down to 23. If in doubt, shop both--just know that 25 gets better as it continues.
This course is great! Learned a lot about linear algebra, but should have talked to Professor Gross more often. Very illuminating whenever I did.
It may be hard at first but keep at it because it will make you a far better math student and you will have a wonderful time in class.
Take this class if you're interested in pure mathematics and want to spend a lot of time grappling with difficult, but interesting problems. The class will be frustrating, but it will definitely pay off.
This class is extremely fast-paced. If you don't understand the material, reach out to the CA's, attend office hours, or form a study group! Do not wait until the last minute to learn all of the material, as the proofs do take a lot of time outside of lecture to fully digest.
This is a really excellent class. Professor Gross is a fantastic lecturer and you learn an enormous amount. On the other hand, if you're not really gung-ho for pure math it can sometimes feel a little purposeless. Still, I'd highly recommend this class for anyone who really wants to understand the material in depth and is willing to work hard.
This class is great, but difficult. If you love math and are already good at it (taken 2+ advanced math classes beyond BC) but don't want to take 55, you'll probably be fine here. The psets are the hardest part, but manageable if you spend the time early in the week to work on them. If you have not extensively studied math beyond BC, don't take this class unless the rest of your classes are easy, because this will probably take up all of your time.
This class was the highlight of my week on MWF mornings. The problem sets were difficult  I spent probably 10-15 hours a week on most of them  but incredibly rewarding, lecture was interesting, fast-paced and clear, and the exams, though somewhat scary, were doable. If you prefer proofs to calculation, you will love this class.
Math 25 is the best class you could possibly take if you plan to go into math, physics, or something similar. Professor Gross gives students the tools to conquer their future math classes and to comprehend advanced math and often introduces fascinating applications. I have learned more in this class than I have in any class ever.
This course may take you anywhere from 5 to 15 hours per week depending on your prior level of comfort with proof-based math. Professor Gross is an amazing teacher, and the class's material is presented very clearly, but if you don't have prior proof experience, psets are going to inevitably take up a lot of your week. Only sign up if that's appealing to you. On the flip side, if you're comfortable with proofs, the time commitment for this course may be a lot less than you expect.
This course will most likely be challenging and a lot of hard work, but it pays off enormously. Although a lot of the actual subject matter will probably be forgotten if one does not continue on in theoretical mathematics, the methods of thinking and approaching proofs that one learns in this class will stick for a long time.
Best math class I have ever taken. You will learn so much. Please take this course!
Budget a lot of time for this class; most people took at least 10 hours on homework. If you learn how to TeX then CAs will like you more. Overall though, Math 25 with Benedict Gross is a great class-definitely my favorite this semester!
This course is phenomenal. It is fair and rigorous, but easy to follow if you keep up with the work. If you are fortunate enough to get Gross as your professor, I suspect that you will find him to be the best math teacher you ever have.
This class offers a great introduction to linear algebra (and how it relates to later topics in math), but beware of the difficulty. You have to be serious about math, and willing to spend many hours on proofs in order to get through homework. Lectures were always entertaining enough, but sometimes you could easily lose sight of what exactly the professor was doing. You will learn a lot, and really appreciate the understanding you have for this type of math when you exit the class.
If you like math and can handle a tough homework load, this class is definitely for you as long as you have a basic background in linear algebra and proofs.
This class is hard but worth for anyone interested in math.
A fulfilling but very challenging course.
Math 25a is a phenomenal course. Professor Gross is an absolutely fantastic lecturer: he's simultaneously thorough, engaging, and relatable. He was exceptionally thorough about developing our understanding of linear algebra, starting from scratch with definitions of fields and vector spaces and working up to more complex concepts. Don't worry if you haven't taken a linear algebra course before, as this course assumes no prior knowledge of the material. While a familiarity with proofs is definitely helpful, it's not absolutely required: most of us were acquainted with proofs but had little formal experience; Math 25a filled in those gaps. If you're vacillating between taking this course and a lower-level one, by all means take this one. It's a fairly difficult workload (around 10 hours a week, by my estimate), but your support group of peers and the excellent teaching staff make the course material completely understandable if you put in the effort. You'll also make a bunch of great friends in Math 25a, since you'll more than likely spend many hours cranking out problem sets with your peers. I came into this course somewhat tentatively, but a semester later it is unquestionably my favorite class and was well-worth the effort. If you're interested in math, science, or engineering, you simply must take this course. If you're not interested in any of those disciplines, take it anyway. You'll come out with considerably more mathematical sophistication and a healthy appreciation for the beauty of higher-level mathematics.
This is a phenomenal class if you are considering a math concentration. You must have comfort writing proofs to do well. The problem sets are long and sometimes hard, but the characterization that this is "the most homework-intensive class at harvard" is an overstatement; psets can be completed in one evening if necessary.
It can be a tough course, but definitely worth it in the end.
If you think there is any chance that you'll be a math concentrator, or even if you're just interested in math, take Math 25.  It's not an easy course, but it's well worth the effort to actually understand math instead of just "plugging and chugging."  On the other hand, if you're just interested in learning how to use math in other fields, you're probably better of taking Math 21 or 23.
Before coming to Harvard, I had taken BC calculus in 10th grade and a really bad course on multivariable calc in 11th, and so I hadn't taken math in 1.5 years. I was debating taking 23a but have no regrets in taking 25. 25 is so well taught (Gross is the man!!) in comparison to 23a and that really does make a difference. Even if Gross isn't teaching it, given how great the textbook is, I can't imagine 23 ever being better. On the other hand, I hear lots of complaints from friends in 23 about how poorly it is taught and how the material is just a random conglomeration of topics rather than anything coherent. In terms of preparation, I think if you're considering this course...you are prepared for it. People might say you need multiple years of university level math for math 25 but I've found that is not true at all. Do you need to know what a derivative and an integral is? yes, but that's about it. The course is structured so that you will be just fine without anything but a calc background (and there's not a lot of calc in the course anyway). The key prerequisite is a willingness to spend (a lot of) time and learn and strong mental aptitude. That being said, I imagine it would have been helpful to have taken linear algebra before this, and you will probably have to do some more work if you haven't. In any case, be willing to spend upwards of 10 sometimes 20 hours on this class a week, and be careful if you're taking something like physics 16 along with this. But I was fine, I'm sure you will be too. TAKE MATH 25!
Take it!
The work load is heavy. However, it is a very interesting and well taught class. Professor Gross is an excellent lecturer.
If you love math, then you must take this course! Just so you know, I think this course has probably been made significantly easier than previous years under Professor Gross, who has made the psets slightly shorter than in the past, with more problems from the book. Prof. Gross is a very good lecturer, and this class does not take all too much of your time.Definitely take this course if you want to understand the theory behind lots of different things. Linear algebra is incredibly prevalent... it's the math behind the Google PageRank algorithm, lots of statistics, and more!And also proofs are just fun :]
This course completely changed my impression of what math is like. I went in a little intimidated by the prospect of proof-based math, but Professor Gross was amazing, and despite not having any past linear algebra knowledge, I was able to pick things up quickly. Math is now my favorite subject.
While the class can be a lot of work, it is a wonderfully taught, interesting, fun way to learn (or relearn)the material. It is a great introduction to college math courses!
You will pull multiple all-nighters for this class. There will be times when you blink once during lecture and become confused; blink twice and you will be lost. There will also be times when you want to kick yourself for missing something super obvious. But in the end, Math 25 will be an enriching experience: an accessible first exposure to rigorous mathematics for the uninitiated and a challenging second look--one sure to tighten up loose ends--for those who have already taken linear algebra and multivariable calculus. It's definitely worth taking over Math 23--the problem sets are much more interesting, and you'll get sneak peeks at topics you'll encounter (if you so choose) in later math courses, such as abstract algebra and topology. You'll also see "crazy fun stuff" and benefit from the small class size and its small group dynamic. If you did problem solving contests in high school, took college math, and/or have any inkling of love rigorous mathematics, the only reason you shouldn't take 25 is because you're ready for 55.
This class is difficult, but it is not unmanageable, and you don't have to worry about being left behind, as there will always be someone willing to help you.  It gives you an enormous appreciation for math and is a whole lot of fun.  Also, even if you are confused at first, the problem sets / Professor Gross / other students / CAs will quickly help you become unconfused.
Try to skim the book before lectures. It will help you understand the fast pace lectures better. Also, start problems sets early.
Take this class if Professor Gross is teaching it! He is exceptional and is a much better lecturer than both Bamberg (who taught 23) and Elkies (who taught 55). However, if you have not had prior exposure to linear algebra before, you should think hard about taking this class. It is difficult, abstract, and fairly fast-paced.
If you like mathematics, are willing to spend 6-8 hours (sometimes as high as 10, sometimes as little as 4) on the problem set every week, and did well in high school mathematics, you would probably enjoy this class. It is challenging but intellectually satisfying.
This course was amazing! Professor Gross is a fantastic lecturer who can make anyone love linear algebra. The material is difficult and abstract, but the motivation and enthusiasm generated by Professor Gross clearly outweighed the difficulty of the course. If you have a solid background in mathematics with some introduction to linear algebra, you will do great and enjoy this class immensely, especially with the support network of TFs and fellow students.
This is a very difficult course to transition into, but it is extremely rewarding.
It is a challenge, but at the end you will not regret your decision to take 25 over 23 or 21.
Work Hard!
If you like math then take this course (unless you can take 55 in which case all the more power to you).
You should have a good intuitive understand of more basic math and a willingness to work and rethink your assumptions, but in general you will gain a lot from this course.
I would recommend it with reservations. There are definitely a lot of kids who take this class in addition to other classes with intense workloads, but you have to be sure that you personally will be able to balance the Math 25a problems sets with whatever other work you have. That said, it was definitely my favorite class, and Nir is great!
You will feel accomplished.You will work your ass off for that feeling of accomplishment.
Very tough, very abstract, very time-consuming, but as you understand things, very rewarding.  This is Math 55a for people who don't quite have time or background for the hardest freshman math course in the country.
It was fun!
In general, this is a great course. However, be sure you know what you're getting into. Look at the option of taking Math 23a hard, and then look at it again. Simply doing well in BC Calculus in high school isn't enough to do well in this course; you have to have a good background in linear algebra and knowledge of mathematical proof writing to succeed. If you think you have all of those skills and the desire to work on math for 15 to 20 or more hours a week, then this course just might be for you.
If you understand what material Math 25 covers and you are still interested, you should probably take it.  Math 25 teaches material at a combined pace and depth that is matched by few other courses.  The workload is very heavy, but most problem sets leave you feeling at least a small sense of accomplishment, and each one makes you much more comfortable with the material.  If you have taken multivariable calc or linear algebra before and you are at all interested in more rigorous mathematics, you have no excuse for taking Math 21 or 23 besides worries about workloads in other classes.  Math 25 is a "real class"; though it is an introductory freshman class, it is a true challenge, and ideal for anyone, with a decent math background, who is looking for one.
This is pure mathematics. By the end of the course, it is very satisfying to understand the deep, beautiful landscape. However, since there are very few examples or applications, forcing oneself to blindly prove theorems can be painful. The problem sets also take a lot of time, probably most of the weekend.
If you want to learn and understand linear algebra very rigorously (at the expense of not being introduced to its applications), this is the course for you.
If you're looking for a rigorous freshman mathematics class that doesn't require too much background, this is it. The class is great if you're willing to work very hard in it. But, be willing to drop down if it gets to be too much.
This course requires a fairly significant time commitment each week and is quite abstract. There is little computation - most of the problem sets is proof-based. I recommend that if you take this course that you like maths a lot and are enthusiastic about it. It is helpful (although certainly not essential) if you have taken some linear algebra before.
If you're interested in math but don't have the background required for Math 55, this class is a very good fit. The material is more rigorous than in Math 23 and I think, more useful / educational. The fact that the problem sets are proof based means that actual thinking is required instead of just plugging and chugging.
Great class for anyone who has a strong interest in math and thinking hours about interesting ideas.
It's interesting, but only if you're willing to put in the vast amount of work that the course requires.
It's a good course, but you have  to be willing to work hard and get started early.
If you're a math concentrator, and want to spend upwards of ten hours a week on math, it's for you. If you're unsure, do 23a or 21a.
It's a very good class that will quickly teach you to think very abstractly about math.
If you know you can do well with time management, have a working knowledge of writing proofs and linear algebra, then I would recommend the course.
Definitely a tough and very theoretical class.  If you haven't taken liner algebra before, make sure you'll be able to keep up.  Also, knowing how to write proofs is a must.
this is not math 55, but this class is still insanely hard. Be prepared to work hard, and pset groups are your friends.
This is a very good course.  I'm not sure math is for me, but I defintely found this course to be very doable if you were willing to put in the effort.
Nir Avni is a rock star. He is ridiculously smart and also very approachable and funny. So if Nir is not teaching Math 25 in future years, most of my grounds for recommending this class will have disappeared.I say "most of" because there are a few other reasons why you might want to take this course, reasons that are probably independent of the professor:1. You will make lots of friends. You will spend hours with them each week, commiserating.2. You might like the material, if linear algebra interests you.3. You will probably be glad you took the course by the end of the semester, either because you enjoyed it or because you will have the psychological need to convince yourself that you enjoyed it.4. The course will make you smarter and humble you at the same time. In this respect I would say Math 25 is emblematic of Harvard as a whole.
The course material is quite interesting, but the problem sets can be rather demanding; do not take it if you would never consider yourself a math person.
Be prepared to work hard. Don't take it just for the sake of "taking a hard math class".
Do not take this class if you are either a) not interested in learning mathematics in a rigorous theoretical fashion (i.e. proofs over applications) or b) not willing to devote a considerable amount of time to completing the problems and studying the material outside of the course.
Study Axler in the summer and do the problems.
The class is lots of work but it's worth it. If you are serious about mathematics as a concentration, then proof-based and abstract mathematics is a must, and that's what 25 is all about.
Its too hard.  If you have no other hard courses and want a really challenging one, go for it, because it is interesting material and you learn a lot. But if you want to focus on other things, steer clear.
Very difficult, but definitely worth the effort. If you want to study life sciences or economics or anything else of that sort, you should take at least Math 21. If you want to discover the beauty of math, go for Math 25! (Skip Math 23, however :))
It's really amazing, if you're willing to put in the work. Be prepared to be humbled if you thought you were good at math in high school. It's a very challenging course.
you'll be in a great community of math people.
You should want to spend lots of time on math. If you're okay with math being your most important class, then this class is perfectly reasonable.
Expect to spend a great deal of time on your own working through concepts and working out the homework problems.  Study groups can be, but aren't always, helpful.  Without a considerable input of time and effort, this class will not necessarily be doable or helpful in the long run.
Prepare to work very hard, and be greatly rewarded.
I highly recommend it to people who love math, but for "casual fans," so to speak, it's way too much commitment to be worth it.
You need to like math and be willing to put in A LOT of work. If you do, it will be an extremely rewarding class.
Don't take this class just so you can say you took it. It's a really serious time commitment, and you should only take it if you really want to invest a large effort into math.
Math 25a will make math enthusiants into mathematicians.
This was my favorite class that I took during my first semester here at Harvard. I met three of my best friends in this course through working on problem sets. I also feel my mathematical skills have increased hugely. However, if you don't want to be putting a lot of time into your math class, I would not take this course. If you're interested in math and ready for the course it's a great experience.
I don't know what it's good for.  Fun, but depending on your major, useless.
It's exceedingly hard work, but you get something out of it, especially if you're interested in doing maths to a higher level.
The stuff is interesting. It's not terribly hard. Math is fun.
Math 25 is a lot of work but definitely worthwhile if you are interested in learning real mathematics.
If you are interested in math, you should take it. It is a lot of work.
A great course to take for those who like/love math, or who may find that they like/love math. It does require dedication, focus, and maybe a bit of passion for the material as well. You have to like to learn in order to like this course. But this course is right for you, you're far better off having taken it. However, if you do not have time to spend, you will have a hard time getting used to this course.
It is a lot of work but well worth it.
There is a lot of work.  You have actually to like math to like this course; but this course might expose for you whether you like math.
The workload to this class is very, very heavy.  Do not take this class unless you have a clear interest in the theoretical side of mathematics, and are willing to devote the majority of your time to it.
If theoretical math is any strong component of your concentration, this course is an excellent introduction.
Large time investment
This class is only for a certain type of student; one who has a very strong math background, is interested in mathematics from a purely intellectual perspective, and is willing to dedicate substantial time.
