Unfortunately, professor Gross will not be teaching this class in the future so its presentation will likely change. However, the material covered by this class is very interesting. If you're doing a math concentration, you should really take this course as a part of your 120s course requirement!
Take it! Learn about modules and rings!
This is a great class in gaining a foundation in algebra. If you are at all interested in pursuing pure math or physics, I would highly recommend taking this class.
This course is challenging, time consuming, and arduous.  But in the end, you have finally become part of a world of mathematics. A new language. This is the doorway to higher math.  And the work it takes to get there feels as stimulating and challenging as the years of math to come will be.
Very important class.
Dick Gross is amazing. RIP in the sense that he's headed off to San Diego.Algebra is beautiful. I would recommend taking this course if you're not a math concentrator and want to appreciate abstract math more (if you're AM, CS, physics, chem, etc). I had lots of fun with this course as an AM concentrator not coming from the 23/25 track (I took the 21s and then Math 152 for intro to proofs).CAs were great. Working in groups is probably necessary and lots of fun, good way to meet people.
good course
READ before class!!! It really helps to have the definitions and important concepts solidly in mind before the lecture begins!
This class is a great introduction to algebra and concepts of math in general. Unfortunately this class won't be taught by Professor Gross again, but the material is worth knowing for anybody, especially math concentrators.
This class is essential for math concentrators and is extremely useful for other subjects as well. Problems can be difficult to work through at times so definitely don't start the pests the night before and work with a group. Gross was one of the best lecturers I've ever had but unfortunately this was his last class :(
As with all math courses, highly dependent on the instructor. But generally, algebra is absolutely beautiful and I definitely recommend this course.
Group theory is not as exciting as it sounds. Although I'm sad that professor Gross will no longer be here at Harvard, I was not a huge fan of his often unclear presentation.
Prof. Gross was an excellent teacher for the course. Abstract Algebra is a fun subject, I think, and this class taught it well. The quality of the class depends greatly on the teacher and on the CAsdo some research on the professor before choosing the class. Note that "Algebra" by Artin is a great reference for anything algebra related, so if you end up taking the class, be sure to use it. I definitely learned a lot in this class, and if you take the class, you will as well. Workload was reasonable, assuming you have some mathematical maturity.
This class is pretty challenging. The same group of peers who take 25a will end up in this class. If you're not willing to intellectually hang with this crowd you might want to reconsider.
This class is hard; it's incredibly abstract and deals with an impressive range of topics (we learn in one class what some schools teach in two). It is a thorough and rigorous preparation for further pure math classes but it will take up a HUGE chunk of your time. Gross is a wonderful and engaging professor who does his best to help students understand but he does cover a LOT of material very quickly in this course and it's easy to get lost if you start falling behind. There was a period in the middle when it felt like each week was a new topic entirely. Section is optional and more about problem solving than reviewing lecture material so it's usefulness varies widely from week to week. Start the psets early because they are almost all proofs, which require some creativity are pretty time consuming.  It is possible to do them in one night but very, VERY ill-advised (I did this for the last half of the semester and each week was more miserable than the last. For the last 3 weeks I didn't sleep at all on Thursday night. Don't do that to yourself.).
Difficult material. Instructor will be different so nothing else I say will apply.
Group theory is pretty intuitive, but once you get further into the course it might be difficult to grasp concepts/make connections. So be sure you're really diligent in talking to CAs, clarifying questions you have, etc. The concepts really build on one another in this class, so if you don't get something at the beginning and don't work towards understanding it, that can affect your learning of everything else in the course.
Math 122 with Prof. Gross was a good class in retrospect, but it was painful while I was taking it. First, Artin was not a good book to base the lectures on; the topics are rather scattered, and the explanations are not good to motivate the abstractness well. However, when I was reviewing the material for the final, I realized that I learned a lot from this course, and this material is very useful for physics and math majors (which are what I am currently). I would recommend this class in general.
The material taught in this class is immensely important in a lot of contexts not only related to math, and taking this class will really set up the student to have the necessary background to take a lot of other interesting math classes.
Good mathematical introductory course.
This class is extremely difficult and not well structured. Most of the class if you wanted to understand you had to just do it on your own and read the book. The TAs were fantastic. If you took math 21a and 21b with math 101 I would not recommend this class.
I took this pass/fail to fulfill my math requirement for physics after taking math 21. It was too hard not because it was too fast at the beginning and never gave me adequate time to learn the important fundamentals. There were never enough alternate materials, and there weren't enough section times offered.
Math 122 is a wonderful class! It single-handedly convinced me to be a math concentrator. It probably depends on who teaches it, but with Gross, it was very well-structured, engaging, and not too difficult. Algebra is really one of the most beautiful parts of mathematics, and this class gives a great overview of groups, rings, fields, and vector spaces without feeling like a "survey" course. The teaching staff is also really helpful, and there is a great community in the class. Overall, this was hands-down my favorite course of the semester!
Take it when there is a good teacher. This class teaches very important and fundamental stuff for math, don't miss out!
Professor Gross is an amazingly kind and cool professor, but he was somewhat unclear during lecture and never really fully wrote down proofs which made reviewing later pretty much impossible. Ultimately, algebra is algebra; classifying the the groups of a finite order is not my cup of tea but other people may have liked it (they didn't...). But, a thorough understanding of group/ring/module theory is VERY important, and useful, in pretty much any math context so you should take the course and the lecturer may be excellent.
This is a solid math class. Professor Gross was awesome, though he won't be teaching it anymore. I liked the earlier material (group theory) more than the later sections (ring theory, modules, group representations). This class showed me that I'm more of an applied math person than I am a pure math person, since I was annoyed with the lack of applications of the material.
Take it
Algebra is important for any future mathematician or physicist to know.
I would tell them that this is a wonderful way to get into the world of more serious math-algebra is beautiful.
It's pretty foundational to other math classes, and fun to boot, so worth taking. The course starts off pretty easy, but can quickly get over your head if you don't do the readings.
Cool class
Math122 covers many interesting and important topics, and is a very enjoyable course. It is much less intense than Math25a.
The class can be fast-paced but it is worth it.  It's rather unfortunate you will not be able to take it with Professor Gross.
Depending on the professor and what parts of algebra (s)he is planning to cover, this is a very good class. You will come away with a basic knowledge of the important objects in much of object. From what I understand, this is an essential course if you plan on concentrating in math or if you plan on doing physics theory. If in the latter camp, try to convince the professor to go over group representations. The class is not too difficult (or at least Professor Gross' version was not), but do try to put in the effort to read the textbook, go to lecture, go to section, etc. so that you really do understand the material. It will be important in future classes.
Too late kiddos. You missed out on Professor Gross.
Professor Gross is brilliant and an enthusiastic teacher and he made the class enjoyable. Harvard lost a great professor this year.122 is a fine stepping stone to higher math. You can't avoid it, but you aren't thrilled about taking it. I don't think Artin's textbook is anything special. It is at best a satisfactory introduction to Abstract Algebra. This year the class suffered due to some very strange organizational details. All problems on the homework were graded on a scale of 0-1 point assigning exactly integer credit. I cannot articulate how awful this policy was. Try to avoid ever taking a class with such a policy.
This course is fascinating but difficulty and the material covered depends a lot on instructor. Make sure you are willing to put in the time to learn the material, and even then you might still struggle.
Necessary material for future studies in math. Since this is Gross's last class, any comments I make specific to this iteration in the course are, presumably, useless. So yeah, the material was good and highly necessary for math and maybe some physics and quantum chem.
Very interesting and deep material, though this class's coverage of it won't always be as deep.
This class was very good with Professor Gross.
The material in this class is extremely interesting and useful- it really helps you think rigorously as a mathematician while still giving a lot of intuition (probably more so than Math 25). A proof-based mathematical background is probably necessary to take it, and there are definitely distinct advantages to having taken Math 25 as opposed to Math 23, but it's definitely very doable from either of those courses (the linear algebra unit will be review if you've taken 25). Be warned that the second half of the course is substantially more abstract/difficult than the first half; you'll want to make sure you have a solid understanding of the first half as you learn it.
Dick Gross is the most amazing professor I have ever had at Harvard. It's sad that he is retiring but I'm sure the class will still be great in the years to come. The material itself is really interesting and has motivated me to continue taking more math classes. The difficulty varies from year to year but be prepared to work very hard.
I don't know what it will be like without Prof. Gross, but the material is very exciting
This class provided a well-constructed introduction to group theory, but was at times disorganized or confusing. The class definitely gave a lot of a great and interesting material, especially as the semester got rolling.
Ok, Gross is awesome, but this was his last course ever so you won't have him :)Aside from Gross's lectures, this course was alright.  It desperately needs a new textbook, Artin is terrible!  I wish I had realized this earlier.  I picked up a Dover book on amazon at the end of the semester, "A Book of Abstract Algebra," for $10 (I repeat, ten dollars) which was infinitely better than Artin's $150 book.  I finally felt like I understood some relatively simple connections, which Artin manages to obfuscate entirely amid a bunch of needless and confusing results.Most of the problems were from Artin, and though they were obviously on the same topics as lecture, they didn't mesh together super well with lecture.  I always ended up having to do a bunch of outside research (in Artin and on the internet) to figure them out.  This realization that Artin and the internet were really all I needed to do the problems sets resulted in me skipping a lot of lectures;  if Gross had written his own problems, they could have been more relevant, and I'm sure I would have showed up to every one.
It's a great course. Foundational material for mathematics and physics. If you've never written a proof before, it's going to require extra work from you at the start -- you basically have some catching up to do.
The quality of math classes is really dependent on the professor and Professor Gross is retiring this year, so I probably can't tell you much that's helpful. In any case, algebra can be a bit dry at times, but it's a great perspective to get.
Great content, but supersaturated with very fast pace. All the concepts are connected, so if you don't understand something from say week 2 really well, then you will likely have trouble with the rest of the class and so on. Class is taken by people with very strong math backgrounds or considering a pure math/physics concentration, so the competition is tough (which isn't a good way to see the class, but ultimately the grades are curved). I did think I learned a ton, but only after a great deal of struggling. If you didn't take at least Math 25, or if you don't know what a group is walking into lecture 1, then consider looking elsewhere, because in that case you will have to put a lot of effort into the class.
Aaaaa Gross is so much fun! The material in this class is deep and learnable. Anyone who enjoyed the material of 25a and wants to generalize those results should take this course no questions asked. The homework was not exhausting.
Highly, highly recommend this course to anyone with a even a little experience with proofs and curious about math. You'll be exposed to some really interesting and beautiful ideas and will "learn to speak the language of math". I think the course very much depends on the professor and unfortunately you'll miss Prof Gross, but I've heard great things about past professors of the course as well.
Spend a lot of time reviewing every week, because if you are ever left behind you are forever left behind.
Good course - I expect it to vary greatly depending on the lecturer. Unfortunately, Professor Gross will be leaving us. The course materials are great: Artin is a fantastic text. This course was much easier than Math 25. I'd say a 5-times reduction in time/intensity compared to Prof. Kaletha's rendition of Math 25. Still really interesting material and great to learn it in a more chill environment.
it's difficult and the psets take forever! definitely stay on top of the material every week, or all hope will be lost.
Good class you learn quite a bit and it doesn't really require that much work comparatively to other math classes you have taken before (anyone who has taken 25-this is so much more.
The course starts off slow but picks up very quickly as the semester progresses. The material at first sight feels tedious, but beautifully all comes together by the end. Professor Gross's stories are fantastic.
Slow to get going, but then it really _gets going_. But of course, this is a function near-exclusively of the professor.Gross is probably the best lecturer I've had at Harvard. Very much going to miss him. Hopefully he will continue to haunt the halls of the Mathematics department.
Since courses are heavily dependent on the professor, I don't know how much this review can be of help since it was Gross's last class.
This is a really nice class, but if you have the background knowledge of linear algebra and group theory.
Great experience to take a class with Gross, good teacher and he tells good stories as well.
This doesn't matter because Gross is gone, but the course was fantastic.
Don't let the 1 out of 5 rating fool you. The CUE guide doesn't allow negative numbers.I think this course should count towards time spent in Purgatory.
Great, useful introduction to group theory
Only take this class if it is absolutely necessary.  Note that this is is a relative term--although many classes claim to require 122, this is actually fale and you will probably get along just fine without it.
If you are a math concentrator, you have to take it, so take it. If you are not, shop it and make sure to take it when the professor is inspiring (i.e. not this year).
Should be good with a different professor.
I pulled 10 all-nighters for it. Don't take it.
Don't take it with De Sole.
Algebra is interesting, but the course is not very good.
Do not take this class. Find an alternative in the Applied Math department, because De Sole is a poor lecturer and the material/problem sets is both dry and boring.
I would not recommend taking this class while De Sole is teaching it.  Although the material is interesting and the book is not bad, De Sole has made this class a living hell.  Lectures will be unhelpful, office hours useless, and the problems sets will be endlessly frustrating.  This is not the same class that older students give glowing recommendations about (from when other teachers were teaching it).  If you want to have a happy, successful semester DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.
The class itself is a good thing to take; its just make sure to have a good teacher.
Let me tell you a story. Once upon a time, there was a happy little rabbit. Then a hunter came along and shot him. The end. (hint: this is a metaphor)
Stay away from this class if you can possibly help it.  It is technically a prerequisite for other math classes like 131, but in reality, this is false.  All the group theory necessary for 131 was covered in 131.  Also, much of the group theory necessary for topology (i.e. free groups) was inexplicably skipped in 122).  Do not take this class!
The course covers some interesting material, but is very boring at times, especially with the heavy workload.
it provides important background for further studies in math, and is quite well-taught.
This material is pretty boring, but I guess if you want to do math, you have to learn it.
the course material is really interesting and useful, but I would definitely discourage taking this course with Professor De Sole unless one absolutely has to
Good course, covers interesting material.  Can be very time consuming though, and sometimes it is a bit difficult to put everything together.
Math 122 is full of really interesting material and I was often really excited to learn what we were doing. While not everybody was a huge Cotton-Clay fan, I don't think he's that badjust disorganized. My biggest problems were the often very late Thursday nights (circa 4am) doing problem sets and the absolutely brutal 48-hour take home exam. Be prepared to dedicate a significant amount of time and energy to the class because the material is very abstract and often hard to grasp until after you've struggled through a problem set.
You'll learn so much fundamental stuff about algebra. You pretty much have to take this class if you're a math major, but you'll be glad you did. Symmetries, groups, isomorphisms, a bit of representation theory, it's really important stuff. If Andy's teaching be ready for some of the lectures to be a bit disorganized. But go to his OH and you'll be fine.
Math 122 is awesome. The material is fascinating, if you're into groups and vector spaces. If you're not into groups and vector spaces, this course will be unbearable. I have to say, I found the course to be very reasonable with Andy as an instructor. Though he goes really fast in lecture, he's happy to walk you through concepts really clearly in office hours or outside of class. Be prepared to work hard--this is a classic Math dept class and I doubt it will every be *easy*--and try to take it with Andy if you can.
The course is a great introduction to abstract algebra, and Andy does a decent job presenting the material (although you might have to work outside of lecture to get intuition for things).
Beware of taking this class with Cotton-Clay. He's a really nice guy but I was often confused in lecture as he would leave key parts of proofs as exercises or just mess them up. Besides that, the material you cover is essential if you want to study math or physics at a higher level. We covered basic group theory, some theoretical linear algebra (Jordan normal form, vector spaces, eigenvalues, invariant subspaces, rank-nullity, etc.), isometries of the plane, more group theory (orbit-stabilizer theorem, group actions, the Sylow theorems), bilinear forms, and representation theory. Overall, I'd still say take the class if Cotton-Clay teaches it again but buy the textbook early and read it in advance so you can avoid the confusion that comes during lecture.
This course with Andrew Cotton-Clay was rather disorganized and chaotically taught. Learning the material from the book was rather straightforward, so this wasn't much of a problem. I would recommend the course if the organization of the class improves.
This is a very difficult course, especially since Andy moves extraordinarily fast with disorganized lectures. Not a particularly interesting course but it's prerequisite for a lot of things; only take it if it's a requirement. If you're looking for a fun math class, I would recommend looking elsewhere, like the 140s or 150s.
I lost motivation to try hard in this class. I think that was a bad decision.
Be prepared to work hard and learn a lot of the material outside of class. However, it's definitely a deeply interesting topic and I'd recommend taking the class if you think you have any interest in higher math.
I think the content is very interesting and important, but found Cotton-Clay to be a fairly disorganized lecturer.
This is class is satisfactory, but by no means great. I think anyone who isn't thoroughly interested in Algebra or who does not have to take this course for a requirement should probably steer clear, but as far as a required class goes, it was not bad.
A solid introduction to upper level math. It's a serious, proof based class, but not so intense that you need to be a math major to enjoy it. The material is important for higher math.
This class has a lot of really cool material. However, it felt disorganized and lectures were confusing at times. To his credit, it seemed like Andy was really trying to make the course great, and he was very helpful the few times that I went to his office hours. The CAs were great, Theo and Miruna in particular, and they were also very helpful in making the material more comprehensible.
Professor Cotton-Clay may appear somewhat scatterbrained, but he's a great professor and knows his stuff extremely well. I highly recommend this course if he's teaching it in the future!
If only there were some way to get the math concentration without having to take this course...This course should not be as difficult as it is and should be more basic. It is a tradeoff of going to a place with such amazing algebraists that no one can help but make this course way more involved, formal, and esoteric than it needs to be. Half the class is there because they have to be to begin with.
This is a very useful class, and it is very interesting.  If you have Professor Cotton-Clay, there will be a take-home final, and it will be especially difficult.
As with all math classes, your experience is highly dependent on who is teaching it.  Otherwise it was an interesting class.
Group theory is cool and useful, but the class could have been taught better.
As usual with math classes, your experience in Math 122 will vary greatly depending on who is teaching. With Andy, we covered a lot of material, but it was never too clear how things were tied together until you read the textbook. He blows through material really quickly, and it's never easy to see it all as one cohesive unit, but nevertheless, you do leave the semester learning a lot.
This class mainly covers group theory. The class was pretty good, but the tests were annoying, with a lot of brute force work required.
This is an interesting topic and basically a prereq for all higher-level math classes, so you should take this class. This year's version was a bit disorganized, but hopefully that will change in the future.
This class was really interesting, but at times, Andy made concepts difficult to understand. The book was very useful at these times.
good class, important and interesting information.
This course covers a lot of different topics.  We sometimes spent much more time on a given topic than was necessary to learn the material (such as when we studied symmetries of 3D objects, or when we classified all groups of order less than 60).  Then, we would blow through other topics that were more theoretical, seemingly more important, and more difficult to understand.
This is a great followup to freshman math classes. Material taught and difficulty varies widely with the teacher, so remember to shop the teacher as well as the course. This year Andy was great.
Like any math course, the material matters less than the instructor. Algebra is a fairly fundamental field and practically required to do any more work in the Math 120's, so chances are you're going to take this class regardless of what reviews say. That said, Cotton-Clay made this class doable. He doesn't do a fantastic job of outlining proofs or building intuition, but his steps are generally clear and easy to follow. Problem sets are a good way to play around with ideas, and midterms were all very fair. The final easily took over 24 hours, but I don't think it significantly impacted my sleep schedule. Algebra is fun! I think you'll appreciate the importance of the material, and it really builds upon the linear algebra from the Math 20's. If you like math, I think you'll really enjoy the material and put up with the work along the way.
The material was really fun and interesting and gives you a good foundation of algebra.
This will be a much more enjoyable course if there are only about 20 people in it--lecture-based math doesn't work as well because everyone is hesitant to interrupt the lecturer when he is being unclear.The material is really cool though, even if you look at it sometimes and wonder when it could ever be useful. If you are a physicist and wondering which math department class will be the most helpful and relevant, this is probably not it--go for 115 instead. However, it will give you a greater appreciation for symmetry, and the relationship between algebra and geometry.
Not to sound bitter or anything, but I think Andrew Cotton-Clay is a pretty terrible lecturer. I ought to have spent my time reading the book instead of watching the lectures 2-3 times over attempting to figure out what he meant. Well anyway despite all that, I think math 122 still has very interesting material, though reading Artin might be a much better way to learn it.
If you don't mind lectures in which the professor frequently changes what he is saying mid sentence, makes so many claims within a proof that you can't remember what he is proving or identify when the proof is completed, and leaves a considerable amount of proofs as exercises, then this is the class for you. The problem sets were posted late. There are no solutions posted to problem sets and not all problem sets are handed back because one of the CAs did not care about the course at all. The course website was not updated so you would have to guess where the class was in the book. The course covers a lot of material which is rewarding in the end, but learning it requires a lot of studying outside of lecture since lectures go through the material quickly.
122 is a staple math class, but that said, with all math classes here, it really depends on the instructor. Cotton-clay means well, but he's just not a good instructor. I have to give him credit for improving significantly since when he taught 113 in spring '13, but he's still not there yet. He speaks too quickly sometimes, he doesn't prove things rigorously a lot of the time (merely offers a sketch of the proof), takes breaks in the middle of proofs to introduce definitions or prove other lemmas/theorems... He'll get better over time, but it might take a year.
If Gaitsgory is teaching this class, it will not be easy. That said, most people who stayed in the class enjoyed it a lot. I thought that the class was brilliant.
This course was well-structured, but it was A LOT of work at a very high level of abstraction. I definitely was not prepared for the commitment I would have to make outside of class to learn the material. With Gaitsgory, the psets will take 15 hours routinely. I really felt like I was doing the most I could sometimes (e.g., on the midterms), only to find that I got half correct. Tough class, but it'd be good if you're ready, I think
Taking this course with Gaitsgory was both very challenging and very rewarding.
If you really love math, want a challenge and can devote a large amount of time to the course, take this course.
The class was great, but be prepared for the "Gaitsgory" phenomenon. The class seems really manageable at the beginning, but it gets hard FAST. Towards the end of the semester, you will be staring at the notes and be singing "twinkle, twinkle little star"...Anyhow, if you are prepared to handle 20+ hours of work a week and a class that is going super-fast, take it! Prof. Gaitsgory is awesome and his teaching very effective.
Algebra is so beautiful and if you are math concentrator, you need this class. Prof Gaitsgory definitely gives you a firm foundation in this field.
The material is not inherently interesting. A necessary prereq for higher math.
This is a pre-requisite for many other math courses. Thus, it is the correct course to take after 25 or 23. I would not recommend this course to anyone who did not have to take it. Despite this, I thought that it was a clear class, and that Nir was an effective lecturer. The material covered is nothing special, and it is a hard course, but it could certainly be worse.
This class was really excellently taught.  Algebra is a nice course to take because it doesn't assume too much prior knowledge, but in spite of the fact that we start with the basics we cover a lot of ground in one semester, and so at the end you're definitely left with a sense of having really learned something.
Professor was really cool, work was really hard, group theory is actually quite interesting.
This class has an odd habit of not seeming to be very difficult when doing the problem sets (although time consuming at times), but when it comes time for the final to roll around, the difficulty of the material becomes apparent.
Group theory is an essential topic for anyone interested in math. I can't say how the course would be with a different teacher, but Nir has a tendency to give problem sets that are excruciating not because of any intrinsic difficulty but rather due to a seeming complete lack of care when choosing problems. To be specific: there was at least one error on every problem set except the one problem set that came directly from the textbook; on at least four occasions problems where repeated from previous problem sets.
122 is an easy, fun class. Nir himself is extremely approachable, very friendly, very likable, and he's a pretty good lecturer (although he's kind of quiet). The problem sets were sometimes done well with interesting problems, but towards the end they drizzled off in terms of quality. Midterm and final were fairly easy (grading is easy in general in this class). Interesting material was covered at the end, with rings and factorization. Some of it was pretty sleep-inducing, like symmetries/lattice stuff. But the 122 material will probably vary from year to year.
nir's homework is quite hard.. but he delivers pretty clear lectures and is very nice, approachable, and patient.
Group theory is interesting, but the course can be very challenging.
Group theory is awesome. It's really interesting and you'll feel like you've learned something entirely new - because you have. That said, it's very difficult. Nir is a riot and brilliant, great at explaining things when prompted. His lectures are sometimes a bit disorganized. I'd recommend it if he's teaching, but be ready for a challenge.
Good class. Nir is awesome.
This class teaches problem-solving skills very useful to many branches of physics and mathematics; it's definitely worth the time and effort.
Group theory is a very interesting subject, and I think is a great topic to study for those still trying to grasp exactly what pure mathematics is.  This is a good introduction to that subject and mathematical thought in general.  Also, Nir Avni is a very good teacher, although occasionally his curriculum could be a bit better structured.
As taught this year, the course was much more difficult than in previous years. It felt largely unmotivated. Don't take unless you really have to (i.e. you are a math concentrator). For those who have only taken 23, next year might be different, but this year was not fun.
This is a great class, much more fun than the freshman intro classes. I thought it was easier than my math 25 class last year, and if Nir Avni is teaching it again definitely take this course.  He's the man.
The trick is to look at the material in separate sittings. If you do that, it isn't too hard.
Solid course in algebra. As long as you are familiar writing proofs you should be okay taking this course (though if you haven't taken much math, you'll probably have to work a bit more). Professor Avni is great and the psets are a lot of fun. I enjoyed this a lot.
The course is valuable only on the basis of its material. It was neither fun nor particularly well structured. The homework was long and difficult. Nir tried his best, but unfortunately that didn't do much.
If you're on the fence between pure and applied math, don't take this class. It teaches a lot of cool subjects, but it expects students to be capable of providing proofs spontaneously.
This is an excellent course, and the difficulty is between that of 23a and 25a.  Take if you can.
This class could have been great.
very interesting material
You'll probably have to take this if you're a math concentrator. Algebra is a very fun field, especially if you have a down-to-earth, relaxed professor that facilitates your learning. This course should be relatively easy if you've taken Math 25.
I definitely developed more mathematical intuition with this course.
Lectures are generally pretty good, although Nir sometimes makes mistakes. Attendance is a must, as he does not post notes online.
The course material is great and has applications in almost every quantitative science. However, I would really recommend watching to see who is teaching the course. This year was a bit unorganized, and hard to see connections. I would ask people if they think that the professor is a good teacher, and base your decision on taking the course on that.
Math classes at Harvard really depend on who is teaching it. With Nir this class was insanely difficult but also incredibly rewarding. The grading is very fair so you don't have to worry about getting a bad grade in the class, but the work is very very hard. I'm a physics and math major and thought it was really a great course to take to get the algebra requirement out of the way. However, if you don't like pure math don't take this course (kinda obvioulsy).
Great material, great professor.  If you like abstract math, of course.
The material was interesting and very useful for other areas of math. Nir also gives students exposure to interesting applications of various ideas in the homework and in his proofs in class (which are sometimes very different and more "clever" than the books).
Group theory is a pretty interesting subject, however, this was one of the most difficult and frustrating courses I've ever taken. I often left lectures feeling like I followed only the first half of the lecture.
I hate to give this class such a low rating, but to be honest, it was a pretty miserable experience. That's hard for me to say, too, because the professor is exceptionally smart and he clearly means well, but I found that he was not great at making these abstract concepts more accessible for students who had never seen the material before. The CAs got quite behind in their pset grading, which made reviewing material very difficult. In general, there was no review of what we had learned - we just kept rushing through material. I was quite disappointed in this class, but that's not to say that with some improvements, it can't be good in later years.
The level of difficulty of this class definitely depends on how much previous experience you've had with proof-based mathematics.  If it's only Math 23a, like it was for me, it will be extremely difficult for you, but if you are interested in pure math at all, this is the class to take.  I found it very rewarding by the end of the semester when I felt like I was legitimately comfortable with proving theorems, something that Math 23a never really taught me to do.  Consider taking it pass/fail if you are worried about the workload because the problemsets do take a very long time.  Also a lot depends on the instructor in this class so make sure it is someone you are comfortable listening to for 3 hours a week.
Pretty good course. Not really applicable to anything on its own though.
Nir was fabulous, and the course was very well designed. It was a treat to take.
If you're thinking of taking Math 122, it probably means that you really should or need to take Math 122.  The material is interesting enough, although the course can be slow, and the psets easy but tedious, especially if you've dealt with harder math classes (for instance, if you're coming out of Math 25).  Though I wouldn't go out of my way to recommend 122, nor would I go out of my way to avoid it, especially since it's approximately necessary to take it for many of the people who are likely considering it.Also, Artin is probably not the most helpful textbook, so consider an alternative.
The best math course I have taken at Harvard so far. Prof. Mazur is excellent and gives great lectures. This course has a great balance of theory and enough computation to be useful but not tedious.
lectures are tough, and too long, and hard to follow, but the psets are fine.  tfs are unhelpful because they dont attend lecture, so its hard to reach out for help.
The material is actually wonderful, and even though I'm not a big math person, I found myself enjoying it often.  But of course, like in any class, you get out what you put into it and if you fall behind frustration blocks you from seeing what's so cool about the material.  So don't let that happen and you'll be fine.
This is a hard/time consuming class depending on your math experience. Please make sure that you read Chapters 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and maybe even some of the ring stuff before you take the course so that you're not totally lost. The course moves very quickly.
A nice easy math class. The material is essential and at times beautiful. If professor Mazur is teaching, then it's worth taking it just to get to know him. The only problem is it's not very challenging after math 25.
Mazur is discombobulated.  The material is not inherently extremely difficult, but it can be when he goes over it in the wrong way.  You may want to take advantage of office hours if he is still teaching the class.
As with any math class it's just important to keep up. I fell behind early, didn't do the work to catch up, and struggled for a long time as a result.
You must go to lecture to do well in this class. If you prefer both axiomatic learning and textbooks, do not take this class if you can avoid it.
This is a pretty good class, though I don't imagine many non-math students would be interested in it. Sections and office hours are definitely  your friend - show up and learn.
The course covers essential material, and Professor Mazur is a clear lecturer and cares about his students. However, the class is disorganized and not particularly exciting. The workload is mild.
The class will of course vary wildly with the professor. Professor Mazur is good. He's very accessible and interested in the material. Sometimes his lectures felt a little disorganized or repetitive, but on the whole they were good.
Math 122 was great. The material was rigorous and there was plenty of application. Once again I formed great friendships through working with others.
It's difficult to recommend math classes as the instructors change all the time.  But recommended if Mazur teaches it again; lectures and text are strong and psets are challenging but manageable.  And don't be turned off just because Mazur gives in-class exams: if you can do the pset problems and understand the major concepts you'll be fine.
There's a fair amount of work, but the subject is beautiful enough that it's generally worth it.
It's extremely difficult, and has a workload of like 10-15 hours a week. Professor Mazur is a good lecturer and he does make the material interesting to learn about. The exams are misleadingly difficult... they are short and the questions are straight-forward enough, but it's easy to lose A LOT of points by getting relatively few things incorrect, which is frustrating. Make sure to keep up with the psets and the readings, and don't make the same mistake I made by always starting the psets the night before they're due. You just wont have enough time...
If Professor Mazur teaches it, don't expect to like his teaching style.  Most tangibly, his blackboard use deviates from the standard blackboard use you've come to know and love.  Additionally, he often goes off on seemingly unrelated tangents and typically fails to explain the connection to the current topic.  As someone who made A's in 25 last year, this class was the most frustrating three months of my academic and mathematical life.  It killed all desire to concentrate in math.  But it's more or less a requirement of sophomores, so you're probably stuck with the guy. Have fun!
Like all math courses, will depend a lot on the teacher. Lots of work to understand and wrap your mind around it. familiarity with linear algebra helpful throughout course. If you don't know linear algebra, you may be okay, but you won't really understand some parts well. Be really familiar and comfortable with proofs. Otherwise, pretty self-contained. and algebra is really cool.
Algebra is a really cool subject that has a totally different flavor than analysis. This class gives a very nice, gentle introduction to the main actors in algebra (groups, rings, fields, & modules) and leaves you looking for more. It's truly not difficult, but very interesting! 5 stars! Definitely take it.
Read the text and give yourself enough time to think about the concepts so that they really sink in.
Mazur's the man and a half!
A great class content-wise, but Professor Mazur's lectures can drag a bit at times.  Partial grading exists but is not very forgiving, so be careful not to make silly mistakes!
So the course is very well taught and the workload isn't too bad but make sure that you actually want to know the material.  Even though Mazur is pretty awesome, algebra itself just didn't appeal to me.  I mean some parts of the course were pretty cool but I just didn't know how I was going to use the material outside of this class, so that was a bit of a downer.
This is a math class that is both educational (and the material is definitely important and useful) but still has a light workload. Problem sets are straightforward, and except for some questions that require quite a bit of effort, they can usually be done the night before. Tests aren't bad either - there are 3 1.5 hour tests (and no final) - each seems to ask questions that were already dealt with on the homework, so understanding the homework is probably the best way to do well on the tests.
This class is great. After taking math 25a and 25b, I thought that math lectures would be a bore. I was wrong. Professor Mazur's teaching style is visual and intuitive. Professor Mazur is always available outside of class as well. More often than not, I learned more in 10 minutes in his office hours than in an hour in class.
Really important course. Take it as soon as possible!
The material as they stand don't seem to bee very applicable but nevertheless, I recommend taking it because the material and the way of thinking is very enjoyable.
The material was presented with motivation and in a decently interesting fashion. It is a regrettable consequence of the absolute necessity of this course that it won't ever be required to be presented with more vigor or passion so as to attract students. Luckily, my desire to become a mathematician exceeds my desire to avoid the occasional necessary uninspired course.
Possibly not so useful unless you're a pure math concentrator, but still very well taught.
what just happened??
If you ever need/want to know group and/or ring theory, this is the (or at least the first) class to take.
The material was very interesting, but I would have to warn science students that it is very theoretical, and not geared to more abstract calculations as is needed in some sciences.
The class bends your mind in all the right ways, just sometimes half the battle is decoding the notes from lecture.
This is an important class to take and more importantly to understand. But it is difficult at times, and you do need to be able to focus on it at times.
The class is necessary for math majors. The material is very important but it is also taught very fast.
Excellent introduction to algebra.
This class is very difficult, get ready to think.
Take the class if you enjoy math and like a challenge; give it a pass if you want an easy class or if you don't plan on spending several (at least ten) hours a week on homework.
If you've taken 25a, don't take this course. Unless you understood nothing whatsoever in 25a. Look up the axioms of a group on wikipedia and move on.If you've taken 23a, then this course might not be a waste of time.Warning: the material's not too hard but the workload is heavy.
Professor Gaitsgory is one of the best professors I have had. The material is interesting and you learn a lot.
A good course if you're really interested in the material.
It is more of a logic class than a math class, so be prepared for that, but it is an interesting class also. Just don't expect any applications!
Prof. Mazur is the best Math teacher you could ever have.
Do not take this unless you absolutely must because you are a concentrator.  However, the lecturer is okay. Lots of problem sets as expected.
Great professor and interesting material, although not the most relevant to anything but abstract mathematics.
I would recommend or not recommend the course depending on one's If one has a fairly strong background in proofs and is looking for a mathematically rigorous course (as I was), I would definitely not recommend the course and instead propose studying the material on one's own.
I enjoyed the course, but I am a math (and physics) concentrator.  A warning: others in the class who are not math concentrators have complained of its uselessness and did not enjoy it.  Such people I've talked to included an economics concentrator, etc.  That said, I still recommend the course.
Yay algebra!
This is a great course to take early on as a math concentrator because it is so important for so many different fields.
Math is hard.
The material is useful, but can also be learned in the Applied Math. The Pure Math version should only be taken by people with a real interest in the topic; personally I often found it boring.
the material is beautiful, but be prepared to commit a lot of time to this class.  The problem sets took between 6-10 hours a week, and you can expect to spend even more time than that reading the book every week to try to get yourself comfortable with the math
It is a good class to take, if you are either interested in the material or are very comfortable with theory based math courses.
Not a hard class if you come in with some proof writing experience. Interesting and fun.
The homeworks are SO relevant to the tests.
relatively painless, lectures are good, but didn't learn all that much
Good material, but somewhat disorganized.
Thinking about majoring in a science? You'll need algebra. The course is well taught. Take it.
- reading the text before along with reviewing the lectures that evening or the following morning would make a huge difference- Prof. Mazur is great
This class is pretty abstract but it can be a lot of fun.
Great professor who really tries to make the material easier to understand. Course is doable. Material is interesting and absolutely essential for the math concentrator.
If you want an exposure to more fundamental and theoretical math, this is a great starting class.
awesome still
It's hard, do it if you think the material is awesome.
Without solutions to the problem sets, I would not recommend this course.
Hiro was fantastic.  Go to lecture and keep up with the concepts.  Have fun with this class!
This class was wonderful! I came out of Math 23 and had a lot less proof experience than most of my classmates, but I still felt like I was able to keep up and learn a lot without falling behind. The class builds a solid foundation for algebra and group/ring theory from scratch. The workload was substantial, but the proofs on the problem sets were interesting and stimulating, so the psets weren't too annoying. Hiro is a great lecturer with a passion for teaching, and I thought he did an excellent job of breaking down difficult concepts and proofs. (However, note that different instructors seem to differ a lot in how they conduct this course. For instance, if you compare Hiro's lecture notes with Dennis Gaitsgory's notes from Math 122 in 2012, there's a lot that was covered this year that wasn't covered in 2012, and vice versa.) There's no real knowledge prerequisite for the class; you just need some comfort with mathematical notation/lingo and with writing/understanding proofs. If you have those, you'll be fine in the class.
An interesting, well-paced course. Tanaka gives great lectures, and respects the fact that students have other courses as well, so the workload is not too heavy. Definitely take it if he teaches it again!
Definitely take this class if Hiro is teaching it again! He's a wonderful professor and cares a lot about making sure all of his students understand the subject material.
This class has a bad reputation from previous years, but Hiro makes it awesome! Absolutely take this course if he's still teaching it.
Hiro is fantastic. It is entirely possible that any course he is teaching is worth taking just because of that. He certainly succeeded in making the topic very engaging. It is probably also possible to give this course in a very dull way, but as long as it has a good teacher, it is well worth taking.
I would definitely recommend this class if Hiro Tanaka is teaching it.  Hes very funny and is better at explaining new concepts than any math professor Ive had before.
If Hiro ever teaches the class again, be sure to take it.  If you're interested in math, you'll have to take it anyways, but it's a very insightful course nonetheless.
I shopped 122 last year for 5 weeks and ultimately dropped it because the lectures were impossible to follow. I enrolled again this year and the course was completely different thanks to Hiro. He definitely ranks among the best professors I've had at Harvard. I never felt like the material was difficult just for the sake of difficulty, and I really enjoyed lectures.
If Hiro teaches it again, you should definitely take it.
Hiro Tanaka is an amazing lecturer. I have never had a course in which the lectures were so brilliantly clear and accessible while also covering truly deep and interesting material. From day one, it was exceedingly clear how much care had been put into the development of lectures and homework. I think frequently 100-level math courses get pushed in speed by stronger students, but this course felt universally accessible, even though we were covering some pretty abstract topics. In short, this is a course where going to lecture is so worth it, not because there is a dearth in notes (the lecture notes are top-notch!), but because Hiro is so great at presenting topics in a straightforward manner (and his in-class antics are pretty amusing). I am so glad to have taken this course, and would recommend anyone considering it to take it if Hiro Tanaka is teaching.
As with most classes in the math department, your experience depends greatly on the teacher. Hiro was an excellent teacher. He is phenomenal at exposition, and he constantly worked hard for the sake of his students. Material-wise, this class just a standard introduction to groups, and abstract algebra more generally. A portion of this class is devoted to linear algebra, so if you took 25 that part should be a breeze; the difficulty of the rest, again, is dependent on who's teaching it.
If you didn't take Math 55, you should take this class, since abstract algebra is a cornerstone of modern mathematics. Depending on who teaches this class, it will be a completely different experience, so it is hard to make any general statements, but if Hiro is teaching again, definitely take it at that time.
This course varies with professor. This semester, Prof. Tanaka (Hiro) taught it.
Hiro is an excellent lecturer. The material was really clear, and the learning was not too difficult (the psets for the first half were incredibly easy; the second half were a bit trickier but definitely not time consuming for a math course). Definitely go to lecture, they're really clear and he's hilarious.
If you're interested in abstract math you'll definitely want to take this at some point, it's fundamental (puns) for a lot of other math and physics. That also means it's really interesting if you've already seen some of those applications, so that's a plus.
HIro is the best!  Enjoy the ride.
This class was fantastic!  Hiro was a great instructor, and the course material was very interesting.  I would recommend this course to anyone interested in math and physics.
This is an essential class for any math major, so you'll probably have to take it. Hiro was great and made the material very accessible and intuitive. It was a bit easy at times, especially the first half of the course, but it picked up pace towards the end of the semester.
Challenging (especially at the end), but rewarding if you put the work in. With Tanaka, it was a very well taught, moderately difficult course that I think would be perfect for those on the fence about studying mathematics.
Hiro is the best math teacher I've had at Harvard. He's funny and approachable, and clearly cares about all his students. He focuses on making the material make sense in a broader mathematical context, and sometimes even makes it seem fun! This is coming from a senior CS/Math concentrator who dropped this class twice in previous years because it was too dry/difficult/boring. Group theory is important and you should probably take it, but you'll have a lot more fun if you take it with Hiro.
Take any class taught by Hiro. He has an unparalleled vibe and is a very sensitive and charismatic teacher. As for this class - you're probably going to take it this semester regardless of who is teaching it (if you're a math person), so enjoy.
I took this class two years after taking Math 23, and hadn't taken any proof-based math classes in the interim, so my mathematical skills were a bit rusty. That being said, most of the students in this class have Math 23 or 25 pretty fresh in their minds (and were definitely in the top portions of those classes). If you're a little rusty, it would be a good idea to look at Artin or another algebra textbook to back in the swing of things. That being said, Hiro is a good lecturer and a really cool guy. A component of the grade is talking with Hiro or a TF about significant mistakes made on problem sets and tests which might be annoying, but it forced me to go in and make sure I was understanding the concept.
This is a harder question for math courses, since it doesn't look like anyone teaches the same class twice. Nevertheless, Hiro is a fantastic lecturer and a very fair grader. He has a good sense of what's difficult and generally does a good job of pacing the class accordingly. Be aware that the pace does pick up after the first midterm, and while it's quite easy to coast on the early material, the later stuff will require more earnest engagement.
Do take the course if Hiro is teaching! He is one of the funniest professors in the math department but nonetheless is still able to keep the class very informative and engaging. Even if he isn't teaching, the class is still very useful for your future math endeavors.
Abstract algebra is a beautiful subject and with Hiro, this was a fantastic course. Unfortunately, the math department moves faculty around so much that it's hard to say what it will be like in someone else's hands.
The material in 122 is foundational mathematical knowledge and so you should take this course if you want or need that knowledge, or if you're looking for an accessible introduction to the sort of abstract things mathematicians study beyond linear algebra. It's for the most part very elegant, and some of the results have astonishing structure (e.g. Sylow theorems). That said, experience in this course seems totally instructor-dependent. Everyone I know who took it in 2013 hated it because the instruction was horrible, whereas everyone I know who took it this year (2014) liked it. Hiro is nearly universally adored. He's a charismatic and well-organized lecturer, invested significant thought and time into the course, and was very accessible outside of class. It's difficult not to love a professor who reads aloud long, meditative Grothendieck quotations and brings giant bungee cords to class to demonstrate the fundamental group. Hiro thinks and cares about how students engage with math, and it shows.
This is a great class where you learn a ton.  Definitely a necessary and great class for math concentrators.  Covers super important and interesting material.  For non math concentrators, it is an interesting class but definitely challenging.
This course was very well taught and a great introduction to group/ring theory. A proof based background is necessary and the class will take some work, especially in the beginning if you have never seen a group before.
This course is amazing when taught by Tanaka! I've heard it depends highly on who's teaching it, but if it's Tanaka, definitely take it. I would say he's literally the best instructor I've ever had. He is always accessible, he's extremely clear, he always posts lecture notes, and at the same time he's really funny and generates enthusiasm for the subject matter. My one regret was not going to more office hours and getting to know him more! The problem sets are pretty easy (especially if you're coming from Math 25--Math 23 is probably enough of a background for this course), yet at the same time are interesting and get you to learn and discover things on your own. The one qualm I have is that some "extra problems" were not for extra credit yet some were, and it was not always very clear which were which--regardless, though, all of these problems were interesting and nice to tackle. It's not a big time commitment, and definitely a great class to take (plus, if you're a math major it's pretty much a requirement anyway). Math 25 left a bad taste in my mouth when it came to mathematics, but Math 122 has made me love it more than ever. Take it, take it, take it!
Take the class with Hiro if you can! He's a great teacher and the material is very approachable.
Hiro is a really awesome teacher - he's extremely clear and engaging, and the class as a whole was a very systematic and insightful introduction to group theory. The lectures, assignments and tests were all carefully designed to complement each other excellently and contribute to your understanding of the subject matter.
I am not sure whether Hiro will be teaching this course next year, but he is absolutely wonderful and you should take anything he teaches! And go to his office hours if you have any confusions.
This class varies a lot from year to year depending on who teaches, so read through more than one year's Q responses to get a better idea of what the class may be like. Hiro Tanaka was a great professor who made lectures understandable (and occasionally funny). It is helpful to have a strong linear algebra background (such as 25a) since a lot of the material overlaps with 25a but is taught in a more illuminating way using modules and rings rather than vector spaces.
If Hiro is lecturing, take it! It's a very accessible class for people with absolutely no knowledge of abstract algebra, and coming from 23, I felt relatively prepared but not as prepared as people more comfortable with abstract/theoretical mathematics (i.e. those from 25). I liked the challenge though, and Hiro definitely makes it doable for anyone, even those with minimal knowledge of proofs.  Also, if Kevin is a TF, he's the best!
The material was not too interesting to me -- proofs were not really elegant; they were just tedious. I would recommend this class to anyone who wants to see if pure math is a good fit for them.
Hiro is awesome and this class was really interesting. A must-take class for anyone interested in mathematics.
Hiro made this course. Seize any opportunity to take a class with him. He provides examples and motivation with his proofs and is an entertaining lecturer. I also think this version of the course was easy enough to be accessible even if you're not a math concentrator.
This class was well taught and clearly explained. Hiro is a very enthusiastic lecturer and I highly recommend any class he teaches. The material of the class is very interesting, psets are insightful, and exams are fair. Overall, a really great class.
solid class, learned a lot about theoretical computer science with hiro
Not sure if Hiro is teaching next year, but he's great! He makes an effort to build up intuition and is very sincere. The HW assignments are enjoyable and doable (and really help you learn the material), and the midterms were also doable. The final was very hard though, despite the EC!
Abstract algebra is an interesting subject, and I feel like what I learned in Math 122 is useful in many other areas. I can't recommend Hiro's teaching highly enough; not only did he give great lectures, he clearly put a huge amount of effort into organizing the course to maximize every student's ability to learn.
122 is totally necessary if you want to concentrate in math. If Hiro is teaching it, don't pass it up.
I recommend this class if Tanaka is teaching it again - this course is very dependent on the instructor.
This class was a really solid introduction to the world of real math! I shopped this class on a whim and took it because Hiro is just a great lecturer who explained the material clearly. You will legitimately enjoy going to class. Algebra is hard, and Hiro's explanations and sequential presentation of the information were what made it manageable. Be warned that it's not an easy class - the concepts are difficult if you haven't seen them before (like I hadn't). Testing is fair. Take this class if you're ready for the challenge and have the time to devote to thinking about math.
