Mboyo is a great guy that really loves math and will convey it to you, but the reservations are in the way the course is organized which really needs to improve.
Set and group theory are extremely cool to learn about and answer a ton of questions about lower level math you didn't even know you had, and open up a ton more about higher level subjects as well. You want to explore more. The psets range in difficulty but are doable, especially with a partner, and do them: the exams often have many questions straight from the psets! Mboyo is wonderfully charismatic and fun to be around. He's like math Dumbledore: lots of extra credit for asking thoughtful questions or just him just generally liking you -- 10 points to Gryffindor.
Class is accessible to students of any math background. Professor Esole is extremely approachable and cares about his students, so don't worry about being left behind.
If Mboyo is teaching it, definitely take it. He is the best professor I've ever had here at Harvard. I love math, but it does not come as easily to me as it may to a Math 23/25/55 student. Hence, I took this course as the "proofs" component to complement the 21 series. However, what I got out of the class was much, much more. Mboyo is the most intelligent, hilarious, and charismatic faculty member I've had the honor to meet. He can turn something otherwise abstract and dry into something that will get you laughing even on your way home when you're reflecting on the most interesting parts of the day. Math 101 made me excited about math; sometimes when I'm bored I like to ponder over the concepts we learned in Math 101 in my head -- something I've never really done for another subject before. This class makes you feel smarter and it's not too much pain for its reward. Some problem sets were long, but if Mboyo's teaching it, the class won't necessarily follow one "structure". He is very flexible and changes the course to model the needs of the particular group of students taking it. Definitely go to office hours. It's a myth that he intentionally teaches new material in his office hours, but sometimes there will be a foreign concept on the problem sets that he designs as a mechanism to get students eager and talking, to him and to each other. But be sure to get to know Mboyo. Other than a great professor, he is also an incredible mentor and will be able to help you gain the motivation you need to succeed.
Esole is fantastic professor. He's extremely accessible and tries to develop a personal relationship with every student. That alone is reason to take the class, even if the material feels a little disjoint and sometimes disorganized.
Make sure that the professor teaching the class has a history of being organized in his curriculum. That's probably the most important part of the class, since the quality is so contingent on how good the professor is.
Mboyo is really willing to help you learn the material and if you ask, he'll find time to make sure that you get it. The class does get more complex after the first half, but the rewards are definitely there.
I was disappointed by this class. Although I gained some familiarity with higher level math, the course as it was taught this semester was quite disorganized and unevenly paced.
Learned a lot, Mboyo is a lot of fun, somewhat disorganized.
It starts off very slow but picks up in a good way (gets more interesting and prove cooler things).
I would tell them to definitely reconsider.  I do not believe that the class will prepare them for any future math they may take in any sort of significant way nor is there any interest to be derived from the subject in general.  I would prompt math students to go ahead and take the specific topic they would like (this course will no better prepare them for it than would learning a foreign language) and would suggest that those looking for a overview of mathematical knowledge look elsewhere
That you do learn a lot which is really interesting. However there are a lot of problem sets and the course covers a lot of hard material. You have to have the time to dedicate to this work. It will be one of your hardest courses for the semester.
Math 101 is hard work, but for some reason at the end of the day, you still feel that it was a fun and worthwhile experience. Professor Duncan is great.
it it very interesting, but also very time consuming and should not be entered into lightly--don't be fooled by the name "math 101" :)
You will find out if math is for you.
Amazing professor, the best I've had in college.  A wonderful class.
Do not take this class. Take Math 152.
Math 101 is a solid, and challenging, introduction to rigorous mathematics for both mathematically strong and not so strong students.  Most importantly, thought, and most vital to this course was the superb teachings of John F. Duncan.
The teacher is really fun and enthusiastic, someone I'd like to be friends with. I enjoyed lectures thoroughly and even most of the homework was fun. That's weird.
The class is a great class but it is difficult. It requires a lot of time that if the student plans to have a difficult semester this class would be a poor choice for a 4th or 5th class.
not an easy class
Math 101 takes the lemma out of dilemma and puts the FUN back into function!!!
Be sure that you have the stamina to last through 13 problem sets, stuffed with proofs and terms that you don't really understand after maybe after the course is done.
If it is the same teacher, do not take this class, unless you are a math major that has had a math theory course before or have been exposed to it before.
This is a really good course. It is hard to tell what it would be like with someone else teaching it, but Adam is excellent. The material is interesting, pretty straight forward, and a good introduction to higher level math. A perfect course for those thinking about more math in the future.
Good if you are brand new to proofs or want to expand you math vocabulary.
This is a great class if you're at all interested in upper level math. I feel like it's a great stepping stone to other math classes. Adam is a great teacher: very clear and chill at the same time.
Very encompassing introduction to math, exciting concepts, course gets quite and unexpectedly difficult later on; felt a bit unprepared at this point
A worthwhile introduction to theoretical math that is clear and generally thorough. I think it is worth taking for people who did not take 23 or above, as it is well taught, and gives you background for later math classes. My only complaints were the occasional lack of rigor in proofs, and the general lack of feedback we received on assignments.
This is one of many intro to proofs classes. Overall I enjoyed it. The professor changes every year.
Take this class if you are looking for a good bridge class to the upper-level mathematics.
Math 101 with Dr. Jacobs was a truly enlightening experience. It served to bridge the gap between high school math and higher level esoteric math for me, and it also gave me the confidence to begin studying pure mathematics on my own.
This is the course that you should definitely if you have never had exposure to any proof based mathematics. I recommend this course with enthusiasm to anyone who would like to learn to think mathematically!
Math 101 is a great class for learning to write proofs (if you have no previous experience with them). You also learn some basic set theory, group theory, and topology.
Take this class if you are scared of higher-level math (have never taken anything above linear algebra) but have a secret desire to learn some of it. This class is difficult in terms of topics but a positive JOY in terms of structure, help available, teaching, etc. Rachel Epstein is a godsend for the math department; she really truly cares about her students learning this kind of math, and this comes through in all of the assignments as well as her lectures. I now feel that I have a very basic understanding of some of the main areas of higher math, which is extremely satisfying, and I had a wonderful time learning it. I'm SO glad that I took this course; if you want to be even somewhat fluent in higher math, you should take it with Dr. Epstein!
Rachel Epstein is a phenomenal teacher! i'm really sad that she's leaving and other people won't be able to take this course with her. i feel like especially in a course like this, the instructor can make or break the course. the material is hard and challenging but if you manage to find a teacher that explains it well and is very accessible- take the class!
For anybody who has a mathematical inclination but needs a solid grounding, I definitely recommend this class.
This is a very low-key class: how much work and time you put into it will determine what you get out of it. You can get by without considering the concepts very deeply, but you shouldn't do that because the course covers many fascinating things like different "types" of infinity, defining real numbers and operations on them, and how you can classify objects from a topological standpoint!
Math 101 is an excellent introduction into the science and art of reading, thinking through, and writing mathematical proofs. The course covers the fundamentals of and interesting topics in Set Theory, Topology, and Group Theory, providing a sound basis for further study in higher mathematics. Regardless of whether you are interested in pursuing further study in mathematics or just want a taste of it, I highly recommend the course.
This is a good class if you want to move on to upper level math.  It probably won't challenge you much and the assignments/exams are pretty easy.
I highly recommend this course. The assignments and exam are fair and reasonable, and the material is engaging - it's really, really lovely to be able to take a math course that doesn't stress annoying applications at the same time as teaching proofwriting. I cannot stress this enough - if you're wanting to concentrate in math but lacking a strong background in proofs, TAKE THIS COURSE. I don't think Rachel Epstein will be teaching 101 next year, which is a shame as she is marvellous - however, CA Rohit Ramani is extremely cool and helpful; go to his sections.
This class makes you think about math in a different way. The problem sets can be tough but Rachel and the CA's are very helpful in their office hours. Take it if you need to but I wouldn't recommend as an elective.
Good introduction to proofs and other concepts in theoretical mathematics
depends on who is teaching it
Rachel is an excellent instructor. She generates enthusiasm for the subject matter, and she is incredibly helpful with our weekly homework assignments. I'm really glad that I took this class before I graduated.
It seems a different professor teaches it every year, and your experience will depend ENTIRELY on that professor's style and goals for the class. Rachel was very approachable and went pretty easy on us for the exam, but I can also see this class easily taking 10+ hours with a different professor.That being said, if you want to concentrate in math and have a 21ab background, you have to take this class to see what real math is like. It's the only way to get to know proofs and the kind of thinking expected in upper level math courses. I learned a lot about how to do formal proofs, which doesn't sound extravagant, but there really is a method to it that you can only become comfortable with by doing it over and over.
I thought Math 101 was fantastic. It was a good introduction to basic analysis, set theory and topology, and I feel like I will be able to take higher level Math courses already coming in with a good understanding of foundational ideas. I also feel much much more comfortable tackling proofs - this class is meant to teach you how to write a proof, and it does that well. Rachel was a great teacher!
The material can be challenging, but make use of all the resources available to you. Everyone can do this type of math, it'll just take some time to become acquainted with it.
This class is pretty hard. Watch out. Go to office hours, both the CA's and the professor's. Ask questions in class if you don't understand.
Good introduction to proof-based math.
I would definitely recommend this class to anyone thinking of majoring in math or even science, computer science, the social sciences, etc.For humanities people who like math, the class is fascinating, but I would advise maybe taking something else as your QR core (if you care about your grades a lot) - this is a pretty hard class.  It's really interesting, and I would definitely advise taking it pass-fail, but just be warned that if this is your QR core and you're not a math person, you're going to have to work hard.
If you need a course to prepare you for the deep dark waters of advanced mathematics, look no further.
The course doesn't really teach you how write proofs. It is more like it forces you to write proofs in a relatively light environment and learn by doing.
Great transition into higher level mathematical proofs.  Professor is great and the topics are well covered in lecture.
It is a great class. Benedict Gross is simply a brilliant man. Even more than that, he is genuinely interested in having you learn the material. He takes the task of teaching very seriously, and his kind spirit and wonderful comedy encourage one to approach the course with alacrity.
Very difficult class that goes very fast.  Extremely helpful TF's and Professor.
This is a great course if you have ever been interested in pure mathematics and want to know what its all about. It may even convince you to continue to take higher level math courses. You learn a completely new way of thinking about problems.
Course will heavily depend on the teacher. Prof Gross is amazing and if he ever teaches it again, will be worth your time just to attend his lecture. A true renaissance man. In general, be willing to put in the time and find people to work with. Course is difficult but manageable if you are willing to put time in. Familiarity with proofs will definitely help, especially at beginning, but not absolutely necessary.
Difficult class- may turn you off math completely or make math the love of your life. For me it was the latter.
This class is a good introduction to higher mathematics at Harvard. Nonetheless, you will have to learn how to write proofs on your own since that along with mathematical logic is not emphasized and Professor Gross assumes you will learn such things as you work through the problem sets. The problems sets can get absurdly hard at times and require a lot of thought. But there is a lot of help and the section leaders and Professor Gross and very helpful.
If you decide to take Math 101, be sure that you are seriously considering a concentration in mathematics (it should not be a core class or an elective). It's kind of a bridge between 21 level courses, and the 100's level courses. It does let you think about mathematics at a much higher level, but it is a very difficult and time-consuming class. Oh, also... you should have already taken 21b, or else you should be taking it concurrently.
This class can be fast paced and it can take a bit of review to make sure you absorb everything, but if you stay on top of things and do the homework it'll all be fine in the end.
A relaxing, easy course if you want to learn some more math.  If you have a math or physics background, this will not be a lot of work.  Tests are very easy.
The professor is amazing and invest time to ensure that everyone in the class has a good understanding of the material. The only point to keep in mind is the office hours are always after class which was inconvenient for me given I had class after 101.
The material is interesting and if taught by Mboyo the class will certainly be entertaining it is just more time consuming that I expected. While office hours are generally an optional time to ask questions, office hours for this class were like a second class. Several of the problem sets required one to either go to office hours or seek more in depth definitions of concepts that were either barely or never introduced in class.
This class was great. I personally thought that Mboyo was my favorite Professor by far. He has a lot of enthusiasm for the class and makes himself very available even though he is very busy. The material was great. The class does come to a slow start because the fundamentals must be there before one moves on to Groups and Topology. This could be mitigated if the midterm was made earlier. The class did lack some structure with notes and material available outside of class. It is also was stressful to not have problem set solutions. (Mboyo still makes himself available to anyone that wants to review problems sets which is more helpful but less convenient.) I encourage anyone to take this class especially freshmen that want to work in proof based math but do not have the time for 23,25,55.
It's a good course, but you have to be the right kind of person. It can be incredibly frustrating at times, especially due to the disorder and irregularity. Not everything is taught clearly. The class, though, is cool and can open your mind to some very interesting concepts in math.
Be willing to commit to meeting immediately after class (in office hours) to glean as much as you can from the course. If I couldn't have gone to those office hours, I suspect I would not be so enthusiastic about the course.
This class is a very good introduction to higher level math classes. It gave me confidence in my ability to handle the content of difficult math classes and my ability to think mathematically. It can be a little bit all over the place in terms of material but you do get a good sense of everything there is in higher math.
This class was extremely difficult. Mboyo is a great dude, really caring about his students and always available after class for questions. However, the class had a lot of flaws. First, it was kind of disorganized. We went through a ton of material very quickly making it difficult to follow and really grasp concepts. Furthermore, the textbooks assigned were not very helpful. Lastly, the psets were very tough and time consuming, way beyond the level I was at. However, all in all, I learned a lot - introduced to many different topics: logic, sets, groups, topology. It pushed me to think outside my comfort zone.
Math 101 is by turns very hard (see pset 4) and very easy (most of the course).  Dr. Esole is extremely brilliant but not intimidating.  Prepare to go to all office hours and schedule meetings with him outside of class as soon as you don't understand something.  He is very eager to help students and you will have a good time learning.  You might be struggling a lot, but your grade in the course will not suffer.  As long as you put in the effort, you'll be fine even if you are not an amazing mathematician.
I think it has potential to be a great class if you get a teacher who is very talented at teaching math. If not, it can be incredibly confusing.
This class is a good introduction to mathematical proofs in a relaxed way. If you want a more challenging class in the math department, look at Math 121 or Math 112. Because the math department moves around its teachers all the time, make sure to take note of who is teaching which class. Some instructors are way better than others. Mboyo was great, so if he's teaching it again, I would recommend the class.
Come in prepared to learn (specific) proofs very quickly, but don't expect to be able to be adept at proof writing after this class -- it is mostly understanding specific concepts and regurgitating proofs.
This course was a great introduction to higher math. The first part on logic and set theory was pretty light, but things got considerably harder after spring break. Problem sets varied in size, frequency and difficulty. Materials were super interesting if you're excited about learning proof-based math. If Mboyo Esole still teaches in the future, definitely take it, he's amazing.
Be sure you have the hour and a half after the class free, but the teacher teaches roughly half the class and information necessary for homework and tests
This is a wonderful class that covers a wide range of fascinating material. If you are curious about math as a tool to build and explore the consequences of new ideas, this is the class for you. The greatest asset of this course however, is Professor Esole. He will devote an inordinate amount of time (even Fridays, weekends) to making sure that everybody who wants to has the chance to meet with him.
Be prepared to do very hard, spend lots of hours on psets. it's important to find a good study group to work out proofs, because doing them alone would be impossible. Be active in finding other supplemental resources and don't be afraid to look/ask for help. Go to office hours because he teaches a lot of other materials during that time
Our Professor, Mboyo, is so kind and funny. He cares so much for us as students and really wants to help us learn. The class got sooooooo much harder after spring break with some long hours spent on psets. Love Mboyo, but not the most structured professor (and just personally I like structure). But great class to see if more advanced math id for you.
Don't take if you haven't already taken Math 21b or you will be at a disadvantage
This is a great course if you are interested in math for its own sake. If Mboyo is teaching, you will have so much support and be able to get a really solid understanding of the basics of logic, and group and set theory. He is really approachable and enthusiastic about what he teaches. The workload also is too bad, and if you attend office hours, you will get a lot of help with the problem sets.
Esole is a great teacher. If you can sit down with him one on one and discuss, it's great. But, the lectures are terrible and disorganized. Also, if you don't make to office hours, you get very behind.
This was an amazing class. By far the best class I have taken at Harvard. The material was super engaging and Mboyo is an amazing teacher. He takes so much to make sure you succeed. If you are struggling at all he will take the time to explain everything to you. He is a wonderful hilarious person. Class was always a joy! take this class!!! even if you aren't that interested in math it is awesome!
You get to learn some fun stuff and a couple neat proofs but be prepared for a lot of late night struggling through psets towards the end of the course. Also, office hours are NOT the usual "come ask questions and I'll help you through the concepts/problems" kind, they are essentially an extension of class and absolutely crucial to your success in this course. Your life will be a lot easier if you assume they are mandatory and go to every single one of Mboyo's office hours. (those run by the PhDs are office hours of the usual kind though) Don't be discourage though, this class is fun, tough but doable if you put in the time and work with others (teamwork is ESSENTIAL!) plus Mboyo is a great guy to get know.
It's a great course for those wishing for a bridge between Math 21a/21b and higher-level mathematics. Overall super interesting and pretty chill in terms of workload/grading.
The first half of the course is a bit more conceptually challenging, but the second half has more time consuming homeworks based on Pinter's book. Overall though you learn some intriguing theories and concepts and it's for the most part enjoyable.
Great introduction to topics in pure math and proof writing. I would recommend this course to anyone who is interested in the subject matter, regardless of concentration. For me it was easier than the Math21a-b sequence.
Fairly easy, painless intro-math course. If you're looking to get your feet wet, then take it. But if you want something super in-depth and rigorous, I would look somewhere else.
great class when taken with taubes. course material is wildly interesting. an incredible introduction to proof-based math/analysis. really opened my eyes to what is possible in math. so fun.
Try it out.
This course is a useful introduction to mathematical proofs. The content is interesting, but almost secondary, as the main goal of the course is to make you do proofs on the homework assignments. In this regard, the course excels. Having done dozens and dozens of proofs this semester, I feel comfortable writing mathematical arguments, and feel that the course accomplished exactly what it is advertised to accomplish.
You should be ready to deal with very theoretical thinking
As an applied math concentrator, I didn't find this class too interesting, however if you like pure, proof-based, abstract math, I can see you really liking this class. Prof. Taubes is a very reasonable grader so if you're looking for a class where you won't put in too many hours and get a very good grade, take it.
This is a great class if you want to become more comfortable writing proofs! The material is pretty cool and Professor Taubes is awesome. His primary focus for the class isn't winnowing people out through moving really quickly or writing difficult tests, but rather making sure that everyone actually learns something.
This class is a moderately interesting and fun. It may seem a bit overwhelming at first, and the material may become much more difficult during the middle of the semester,but the homework problems are not as difficult to understand as the material taught.
Good class overall. I really really liked the first half of the course, but the second half was a lot more difficult in my opinion. Professor Taubes is great guy and cares so much about your learning -- I would take another class just because it was taught by Professor Taubes. Love his teaching style. Overall solid class - you just need to put in the time to figure out an area of math that you've never thought of before (certainly different than taking just another math class)
If Professor Taubes is teaching it, this class is amazing. Lectures are very chill, problem sets really not too difficult, and the midterm/final projects are so focused on learning and truly understanding the material, it's astounding. Very low stress but gives you a great appreciation for abstract math. As someone who had never done proof-based math before, this was a great introduction and I feel a lot more confident about taking more advanced math courses.
It's not the most interesting material in the world, but it does teach you new ways of looking at math. Professor Taubes is also really nice.
I loved Math 101!!! Absolute gem of a class-good lectures, fair problem sets, interesting midterm/final projects, and not too difficult overall. Definitely take it!
This isn't a difficult class, and it's a good bridge into higher-level math. Topics may seem disjointed but sometimes concepts will come together and give you some interesting results.
This course gets quite harder after a month. It's a good course but you're still going to be in for the occasional hard PSet. There is help available though, and getting a PSet buddy is always a good move. I've noticed a lot of people don't go to lecture. I guess it's not strictly necessary but Professor Taubes has the rare ability of making people feel welcome and relaxed. If you're going to chill somewhere for 90 mins, you may as well go to lecture.
Not much work, but tricky stuff sometimes.
