It's hard. But it's fun. Don't take it if you're heavily into computation rather than proofs - it does teach some computation, but far less than 23b. Also, multivariable calculus is only really taught proof-wise and at the very end of the course, so if you're worried about other classes requiring multivariable calculus that term and don't feel you could teach yourself, this might not be the right class.
If you like Maths, take it.
If you are willing to work VERY hard, this course will pay off enormously. I've never learned so much in one class before.
If you have the time in your schedule, this is a very useful course.  Beyond the material, it helps your analytic thinking and logic; very useful.
DO NOT take this class unless you find there is some inherent beauty and truth in mathematics. There are very few applications of the subject matter and the gratification is hard sought. Also, do not take this class if you need to maintain a high GPA for law or medical school. Do not take this class if you a DI athlete.
This is math hazing. Don't take it unless you're willing to sacrifice other things (I had to quit a major extracurricular activity in order to focus on math)
Math 25b is much more difficult than 25a, as well as less inspiring.  The amount of time required just to complete the problem sets is very difficult to find if you are also enrolled in another very demanding course.  If you want to learn multivariable calculus (and be able to use it in the future), do not take 25b.
If you are committed to mathematics but are too reluctant to take 55, this is the course for you.
This class is difficult - find a good study group and do it early. The class will take up a big part of your life, but it's amazingly rewarding.
It's a class you take if you are very serious about mathematics and are very willing to put in a lot of time and effort. It will be incredibly rewarding if you put in 20 hours a week.
Only take it if you are committed to doing a lot of work, and like math.
Chances are the professor next year will do a better job of integrating the problem sets with the lectures, so don't be put off by negative comments specific to this semester. If you've ever thought that you're good at mathematics, and you've taken AP Calculus BC or the equivalent, take a shot at Math 25. It was the most life-changing class I've ever taken -- I made my best friends here over problem sets at 3 AM. Besides, you can always drop down if you change your mind.
Requires a lot of work
Only take this class if you're at least a little masochistic.
Attend every lecture, keep on top of the lecture material, and apply yourself to the homework vigorously and rigorously.
It is a hard class.
The class is a huge time commitment
If you're serious about math, but you still want a life, take Math 25! If you're not serious about it, go to 23, and if you don't care about having a life, go to 55!
It is a fantastic course for you to take if you are interested with the formal basis of mathematics, that is, if you are interested in knowing how we know what we know about the mathematics you were taught, or if you are interested in seeing a thorogh and mature approach to new material with minimal hand waving and "trust me's" during lecture.
If you aren't considering pure math as a major, don't take it.  If you aren't willing to spend the vast vast majority of your work time on this class, don't take it.  That said, if you're a major math nerd, it's an awesome class.
Take it! This class is very challenging, but in the end you will become a better mathematician. It's the natural follow-up to 25a, though it oftentimes gets harder and more convoluted. It's a nice "club" to be in, along with your classmates, although Prof. Gross (who is a baller and an awesome professor) won't be teaching it next year.
First and foremost: if you EVER have a chance to take a class with Dr. Benedict Gross, DO IT.  He is one of the best teachers and most fabulous lecturers out there.  He took the amazingly dense material covered in this class and structured and explained in a clear, understandable, and exciting way.As to the class itself, it is a wonderful introduction to proof-based math for those who are unfamiliar with it.  It is a difficult class, but either you will be able to do it, or you will find people that will help you.  You make some great friends through this class, and it really does kindle a scholarly spirit.  Recommend with extreme enthusiasm.  This class defined my freshman year.
Very difficult course if you have never tried theoretical math before. If you can understand the topics however, the course is very fun.
This courses offers a great rigorous treatment of what may be to some familiar calculus concepts. It's great to finally be able to build up calculus from the ground-up. Oh and definitely take this class if Professor Gross is teaching.
This class defines the Q score "5". It is even harder and faster than 25a, but also even more interesting.
This class is great. It's a pretty difficult course, but it's a lot of fun (and its definitely manageable).
I personally did not enjoy real analysis as much as linear algebra, but this was still a worthwhile class to take. Under Professor Gross, the class was not too painful -- the psets did not take too long, and the test were not very hard. The material is definitely very abstract, and I often found myself questioning the applicability of what we were leraning. If you're interested in trying out abstract, theoretical math, this is definitely a good class to take.
This course was one of my favorites this semester, due primarily to Professor Gross. His lectures are always so full of energy and enthusiasm that you cannot help but be engaged in the material. The problem sets and exams are very reasonable and only moderately difficult with the help of your fellow classmates (on problem sets only, of course).
Was much less of a time commitment than 55a since 55 covered so much material, and as a result I understood the material we did cover a bit better this semester.
Make sure you don't miss class, because Edwards is not going to help.
Like he was first semester, Professor Gross is an excellent instructor, one who has absolute mastery of the material and is a great mathematician and person. The course is taught quite well considering how much "hand waving" had to be done in order to prove various theorems that invoked concepts from topology and complex analysis.
While I cannot comment on how the class would be without dear Prof. Gross, I can say that the material covered is really quite interesting. While there are moments of confusion, overall it is a very understandable course that really got me excited about more abstract concepts in analysis. If you are choosing between this and 23b, there is no question you should take this.
This class is difficult, but it is easily worth the work you will put into it. The lectures are phenomenal, although the textbook is not great.
I would compose an ode to Professor Gross's magnificence here, but I fear mere words would fail to capture the sheer scope of his grandeur. Simply put, Gross is the best teacher I've ever had: he lectures with an obvious passion for the subject, and at times goes on amazingly entertaining tangents that our entire class loved. What's more, Math 25 wasn't just a class: it was a family. Bonding through shared trials, many of us became close friends, finding more in common than just our love for mathematics. Take this class--you won't regret it.
If you enjoyed Math 25a, then definitely stick with 25b.  It's somewhat more difficult--probably because more students find analysis less intuitive than algebra--but still well worth it.
Worth it.  And if you have a knack for rigorous mathematics, not too hard a course, but you learn a lot.
AWESOME COURSE WOULD TAKE AGAIN A+++++++++++++++++++++. In all seriousness, the class is engaging and Professor Gross is absolutely superb (although I don't think he's teaching it again next year) in his explanations. You do cover a whole lot in a short time and I would highly recommend this class. There is a lot of available time to get help from the CAs and the midterms and the finals are written very fairly. FRESHMEN INTERESTED IN MATH, TAKE THIS COURSE!
This class is amazing.  Professor Gross made this the best class I have ever taken.  It teaches you to do math rigorously, and it is extremely fun.  I would highly recommend this course.
This class along with 25a are the best math classes I have ever taken, thanks in no small part to Professor Gross. The material is difficult, but rarely incomprehensible, and the collaboration aspect of the homework is wonderful.
It's a whirlwind tour through the vast array of topics under the umbrella of multivariable calculus. You go through a lot, and spend too much time on computing integrals and not enough time on learning interesting theorems. But it's with Professor Gross, whose mere presence should be enough to convince you to take the class , and is by virtue of its theoretical approach much better than any other multivariable calculus class Harvard offers (assuming you have the requisite sophistication and prerequisites).
Prof Gross is an amazing lecturer (although it will be a different person next year).  The book used brought the rigor of homework down, but lectures were sufficient substitute for the textbook anyways.  Overall, a great course where you learn a lot.
This class is truly epic. I would take it again if I could, and some of my best friends have come out of the group experiences we've had together tackling problems and hanging out in the aftermath. If you're interested in math (or a related feel), and really want to be part of a group community, this is one class that will make your freshman year worth it.The material is challenging, and I will say that I didn't get the best grade (but it wasn't terrible either!) -- but it's so worth it.
I loved this class!  Calculus and analysis are a lot different from the linear algebra we learned in Math 25a, but again Professor Gross is an awesome teacher.  He completely deserved the teaching prize he won this semester.  The CAs, and especially the other students, are/were great as well.  If you want a tough class with a great community, take 25b!
if you like math, then this is definitely the course for you.  You get to really understand what things work the way they do.  Developing intuition for the higher dimensional stuff as well as stuff like uniform convergence is incredibly important and this course definitely does that.
You will work very hard but the rewards will be proportional.
If you did well in 25a or 55a, then go for it. It's a lot of work, of course, but worth it.
The course material is very neat, and the course often goes in depth.  But really, I can't tell you much about how it'll be, since you'll have a different professor.  You'll know more about the tenor of the course from 25a (although I've certainly found that it can really change between semesters).  All I can tell you is, be prepared for a serious workload.
Expect this class to dominate your workload. It can be brutally difficult and brutally rewarding. I'm very, very happy I took it.
This class was one of the most memorable experiences of freshman year. The problem sets are really hard, but every week you learn more in this class than you will in your other three.
If you feel more confident about math, take Math 55: the problems are less tedious and often clever, while the instructor is much better (or at least was my year).  If you do not feel as confident about math, take Math 23: the problems are designed to gain an inherent understanding of the material.  Math 25 is a midway class, often not well-taught, and has tedious, un-insightful homework problems.
Though the difficulty of the class changes with the professor, this class is an extremely rewarding class. Be prepared to work for more than 20 hours a week in this class and to put this class before any other class you take.
Its hard.
If you're interested in this course, definitely shop it. If the style or approach doesn't suit you, take something else. I found the most valuable resource in this course to be a study group. If you're interested in maths and proofs or how maths works, you should consider this course.
Only take this course if you are willing to make it the one course that you spend hours on. When your friends are out on Friday and Saturday nights, you will be in the library, in your room, or somewhere else working on the problem set. If this sounds like something you want to do, then think again. If it still sounds like something you want to do, then sign up for the course.
Personally, I didn't like Math 25b as much as Math 25a, which seems, as far as I can see, to be the general consensus among 25ers.  However, the class is still certainly worth taking, and you still learn quite a lot of math, and you learn it well, assuming the class is well-taught as it was this year.  In the latter portion of the course, I would recommend taking a look at texts other than Rudin, which is frequently the required text for the course.  Spivak's Calculus on Manifolds or Munkres' Analysis on Manifolds.  If Math 25 in future years is anything like it was this year, one should expect this course to be significantly harder -- I generally had little trouble in Math 25a, but Math 25b was much more of a strain.  Nonetheless, I still recommend this class highly over others: if you can handle Math 25 and aren't quite at 55 level, then take this course.
It's difficult but we learn a lot of interesting ideas.
You have to spend a lot of time on the problem sets, but you obviously know that already. The # of hours is on par with 25a, so no surprises here really.
Learn the material as you go along. Do not wait until the week before the final to try to learn all the theorems. It will be impossible, and you will cry.
DON'T TAKE IT!!!!!
Fully understand multivariable calculus before you enter this course.
You'll get a lot out of this class, but don't expect it to be easy.  I probably would have enjoyed the 21 series, but after taking 25a, I decided it'd be better to finish the year out.  There's not too much reason to change midway.  Good luck!
The class is intense.  Expect to devote lots of time to the problem sets.  It's rewarding, but only if you don't give up.
Be ready for very time consuming problem sets and very difficult material. However, you will leave this course feeling smarter.
Math 25b is a great class- it'll really strengthen your grasp of calculus in particular. However, it is significantly more difficult (and more frustrating) than the material in 25a. Keep in mind that psets will start to take longer, especially as you get into the later Rudin chapters.
It is alot of work, but you will learn alot.
This would be a weird elective, since it has minimal real-world application. So, I assume you have to take math, meaning you're debating between 23, 25, and 55. My advice would be to start in the higher level and move down. Also, take a look at the Q scores of that year's professors. It makes a big difference.
This class is everything a math class should be--beautiful, elegant, well-taught, fun, and challenging without being overly difficult. Personally I found it easier than 25a, but depending on your exposure to linear algebra versus multivariable calculus, you might disagree. The psets were more computational than proofy and the exams more regurgitative than proof-based, which was admittedly frustrating. Nevertheless, Benedict Gross is one of the most fantastic professors you'll ever have, you'll be best friends with your pset group, and your understanding of calculus will be completely turned on its head in the best way possible.
The textbook was terrible, but otherwise a great class. Fascinating material, and Professor Gross is incredible.
Math 25b is a challenging course, which often forgoes intuitive understanding for mathematical rigor - be prepared to spend time parsing and internalizing symbolic notation, especially for the more heavily analytic portions of the material. The lectures are at times difficult to follow, but the problem sets are generally gentle, and Professor Gross is an amazing lecturer. Highly recommend.
25b is similar to 25b but not quite as challenging and the material isn't as cohesive. If you're interested in pure mathematics and want a well-taught and interesting introduction, this is a great course. Watch out for the hour exams though - you need to go very fast on them.
The material may not be as refreshing as Linear Algebra (Math 25a), but Gross and the textbook make it a great time.
This course is tough, but if you're up for it, it's definitely worth it.
This class is great for learning real analysis at a high level. Students with the proper interest and background should absolutely take this course.
Even though lecture is early, attend! Professor Gross is a great teacher, and you can learn a lot from him.
worth
If you are interested in proof-based math and have some background but are not ready for or wanting to do Math 55, this is the course for you.
Professor Gross is fantastic! And the material is interesting. It is a lot of work, so be prepared to put the time into the class.
Really, really good class partially because Professor Gross is a boss and partially because of the community of students and the interesting material. Definitely don't take if you don't really like math and have a solid calculus background as well as either a strong proof writing, competition math, or linear algebra background.
The proofs in this course can seem hand-wavy at times, but that's only because we're dealing with pretty hard material. When I finally understood the material at the end of the course, I found it to be a very rewarding experience. But during the semester I often felt lost and confused.
1. This class is way harder than math 25a. Take it with some easy classes2. Do go to lectures.3. Probably go to sections.4. Think twice if you are moving up from 23a. If you do want to do so, borrow some math25er's Axler and look at the orthogonal complement and spectral theorem. Learn those proofs.
Rewarding course.
Like Math 25a, 25b is not a class for the faint of heart. It suffered this semester from a rather unfortunate textbook that was both typo-ridden and occasionally incomprehensible (if the course uses C.H. Edwards, consider supplementing with something like Rudin). That being said, Professor Gross is an absolute delight to have in lecture, and if you enjoyed 25a, or if you're coming from 23a and looking for a little more rigor, this class is a wonderful one to take!
If Professor Gross is teaching, and you might be interested in deeper math, but Math 55 sounds too daunting, or Math 23 is too flaky, take this. If Professor Gross is teaching, and you might find multivariable calculus useful, take this. Actually, if Professor Gross is teaching, take this.
Learn each concept as you go along. There's nothing worse than having to cram/understand a bunch of theorems right before an exam
If you did okay in 25a, I recommend continuing with 25b. The class felt easier than 25a, although this may be the result of experience instead of actual easier material.
Real analysis is harder than linear algebra, but Gross does a wonderful job of making it more manageable and presenting a general overview of important concepts. Do not expect a completely thorough covering of the main theorems this semester, but expect that you will have a good general understanding of a variety of important concepts in real analysis by the end. The problem sets and exams actually seemed more manageable and straightforward than those of Math 25a, despite the significantly harder material.
The homework is more computational and straightforward than in first semester. The difficulty of the tests is about the same.
I took 23a and bumped up to this class for my second semester. I never really took the time to look over and catch up with the linear algebra material that was not covered in 25a, and I feel that hurt my performance in midterms and finals. For those planning to bump up, do it if and only if you're able to and are willing to put in the time to cover 25a stuff IN ADDITION TO all the 25b stuff you have to do which is a lot of work alone.
You should definitely go to class and stay on top of the material! The homework isn't actually TOO bad, and it is indeed possible to "get by" with a vague understanding when it comes to the psets. However, this isn't what you should do to get a good understanding of the material. Professor Gross is a great person and a wonderful lecturer, so it's totally worth it to go. Also, the exam isn't THAT easy to cram for, so just be attentive.
I write this for 25 a and b. 5 on Calculus BC? 800 on SAT Math? 800 on SAT II Math? And a 36 on ACT Math? Chances are, this course is too difficult for you. You need to have had exposure to mathematical proofs, which in my high school could not be found in any course it offered. If this doesn't describe you, 23 is your best bet. If it does, this course will be difficult but doable. If you have had exposure to linear algebra or multivariable calculus, then the respective portions will be moderately difficult, maybe somewhat easy. If you have done competitive math on a state or national level, this will likely be a good fit.
You really shouldn't need the Q to tell you whether or not you'll enjoy 25b. Make the decision based on your enjoyment of last semester. That being said, 25b is substantially less work but markedly less fun than 25a. Analysis is much less elegant than linear algebra.
25b, in my opinion, was much less enjoyable than 25a. I still thought the class was interesting, and Benedict Gross was a great professor, but the material is hard to understand and messy. Make sure you have a foundation in either abstract math or multivariable calculus before you take this class.
Take Math 25! Just do it. You won't regret it, I promise.
Gross is a fantastic instructor. This really is a must take course for prospective math concentrators. Gross is able to show the connections between all the topics and his "stories" provide context for the material. Additionally, his lectures are very effective and you will find yourself wanting to go to lecture because they are very engaging.
If you took 25a or if you have experience with linear algebra, and if Prof. Gross is still teaching it, you should take it. Lectures are awesome, don't miss out.
I didn't take 25a, but still found this class worth taking because Professor Gross's lectures were awesome and conveyed just how beautiful math is.
This was awesome! Professor Gross is a wonderful teacher, and any flas in my understanding of the subject is entirely my own fault.
Math 25 is a phenomenal course, and Prof. Gross is probably the best teacher I've ever had for any course, ever. The math is interesting and the lectures are incredibly entertaining (as well as being clear and actually teaching the material). Psets take 10-15 hours a week; so worth it, though.
This is simply an all around great class. Professor Gross is an amazing teacher and a really great guy. The problem sets tend to be more on the computational side compared to 25a so they don't take as much time. I moved up from 23a and found the material to be manageable. Having made this transition, I would recommend that anyone considering 23/25 definitely take the full 25 sequence. It's slightly more work but you get a much deeper understanding of the mathematical concepts. All around this is a great multivariable calculus class.
If you see Professor Gross listed on any math class, take it. His clear and entertaining teaching style is unparalleled in my experience. If he is teaching the 25 sequence, I would highly recommend that you take it. You will feel like you have deeply learned a subject and be prepared for the classes to come.
If you took 25a, take this class. It shows you how useful the material in 25a is and really teaches you the calculus you thought you knew.
If you are somewhat comfortable with proof-based math and are willing to put in the hours, this class is awesome! Gross' lectures are very engaging, and he is very good at giving intuitive explanations of complex notions.
If 25a was the right choice for you, so is 25b. By now, you've realized that Gross is a fantastic professor, and he's almost as good at teaching analysis as he is at teaching algebra. (take that with a grain of salt; I really don't like analysis as much as I like algebra)In short, though, this course is a fine, theoretical introduction to real analysis. It is less theoretical and more applied than 25a, but not by too very much. The problem sets are easier and less interesting, and the Edwards textbook is nowhere as great as the Axler from 25a, but all in all, it's a very nice course.
This is a great class that everyone with the right background should take.
This is an amazing class. Prof. Gross is by far the best lecturer I have ever had.
Math 25b is a great course, especially with Professor Gross. If you're willing to spend time with the material, you'll definitely get a lot out of it.
2nd semester is MUCH harder than 1st semester. Many of my friends who moved up from 23a struggled for this reason and I was completely unprepared for the increase in difficulty. I had a solid A in 25a and I feel like I would be lucky to get an A- in 25b.
Professor Gross is fantastic, and the course material is very well paced. It's a difficult class, but it's well worth it
This class applies all of the linear algebra concepts which we learned first semester to multivariable calculus in a rigorous way.   Multivariable is extremely important in every discipline so I think that everyone who takes 25a should take b as well.   The course load is comparable to the first semester, although the material is often more challenging to understand.
This class is great if you know you're into theoretical mathematics. Be sure you're comfortable with the pace of the class though. Professor Gross is amazing, and he really loves mathematics.
If Gross is teaching (and you think you can handle the level of mathematics), take this course. Do it. Seriously. Do. It.
Take it, especially if Professor Gross is teaching it again!
Take this class for Professor Gross: he is an engaging and effective lecturer (and has a great sense of humor), and is always looking out for his students inside and outside of class.
Gross is an amazing professor. He really cares about his students, and his lecture are funny, yet informative. The assignments and tests for this class are not insanely difficult. Try to go to lectures, early as it is. If Gross is teaching, definitely worth taking!
Take it. Absolutely take it. Sure it's hard and it consumes your life, but if you're into math you'll probably be okay with that. You learn so much so quickly (in much the same way that you consume a lot of water when drinking from a firehose) that on day one you'll learn what a proof is, and on the final day the class will collectively agree that Stokes' Theorem on Manifolds is trivial. Math 25 was just an excellent class, and you really should take it.
Good class. Different professor next year tho. Make sure you do problems from Hubbard and Hubbard.
but like not for everyone ofc
Very difficult class, but rewarding for people with strong interest in proof-based mathematics. Will probably not provide practical facility with the concepts for use in physics or other areas.
It's a lot of work. Peterson didn't really care that much about the class. But you do learn a lot .
25b is a fantastic course that covers an incredibly wide range of topics. I would definitely recommend it to anyone who is willing to spend a significant amount of time on the problem sets and wants to get a rigorous introduction to real analysis and other areas of mathematics.
If you enjoyed 25a, take this class.
very hard but very rewarding
Just like last semester, this is probably the best class to take if you want to do proof-based math, but don't want to throw your life away in Math 55. Real analysis is noticeably less clean than linear algebra, and it takes a bit more time to do the psets than in Math 25a. Also, the psets and lectures were generally less well-organized this semester. I think the professor next year will be different though, so a lot of things might change. Overall, if you took 25a and at least somewhat enjoyed it, and were not overwhelmed, continue on to 25b.
I found 25b to be a lot harder than 25a. We spent so much time on differentiation and integration that we sped by the hardest part of the course (manifolds). Even at the end I still didn't have a good grasp on what a manifold was.
I don't think it would be an exaggeration to say that choosing to take this class is the best decision I've ever made. It was insanely difficult and insanely rewarding, and its sheer rigor and speed forced me to become a much more capable student, and catch up in mathematics to others who had entered the year with much more prior knowledge than me. That being said, expect to spend quite a while on problem sets and on simply looking through notes/the textbook in order to glean an understanding of major concepts.
You've got to be willing to give it your all.
This class is hard. It will take up A LOT of your time and not leave much room to do things outside of class. You will learn a lot though and in the end it is ultimately rewarding to come out from a grueling night of psetting with a greater and deeper understanding of math than you had before. Because you spend so much of your time in this class, you'll make a lot of close friends and bond over mutual struggles.
Think carefully about this course. For all but the best students (who should probably be in 55 anyway), 25 will probably be a serious investment of time and energy. Still, it's a great course, and almost mandatory for anyone very serious about going into pure math. I would say this is the most reasonable first year proof-based class, as 55 is absurd and 23 is significantly more focused on computations.
This class is an extremely fast-moving study of real analysis. As long as you are willing to put in significant work week after week, this class will be a challenging but rewarding experience.
Please take this class only if you hate yourself (and want to not sleep).
this class is really really hard, and much less rewarding than 25A.  it is a gateway to all of mathematics though.  but your experience is very much determined by your pset group.  find a good one and stick with them.
25b was en epic course: Epically difficult, and also epically rewarding. Regardless of who the teacher will be in the future, just know that, in taking 25b, nearly half of your workload each week will come from completing problem sets (and trying to learn the material), but you will learn more than you thought possible. If you're on the fence between 23b and 25b, take 25b.
do not take unless you are very good at math and are willing to dedicate a lot of time learning on your own. it is very rewarding if you are prepared, and very painful if not.
Study. Do not think that you understand a concept, because you will be confused and/or stuck in the problem sets, and you will regret not having tried to understand concepts completely.
Only take this is you're interested in math and would like to spend most of your time doing math. I came into the class only having taken Calc BC and one quarter of multivariable calc, and I was pretty swamped. Psets were shorter that 25a's but still just as difficult. That being said, there is some really interesting material here, especially toward the end, and it's just mindblowing how much you learn. I now feel comfortable tackling any of the 100-series math courses here. The community of 25'ers is also great. Peterson is leaving next semester, so hopefully your next instructor knows how to teach analysis better than he did. He's a great guy though
Eric Peterson won't be teaching it next year and I've heard that this class varies depending on who taught it, but this year was definitely really good.
Take it! It's hard but good for your soul.
This is a very challenging class, but it's also very rewarding in that you learn a lot of math. It's very enlightening in that it's cool to learn about the foundations behind the theorems of calculus that are fed to you in other classes. Everything is very challenging -- problem sets, exams, etc., but that's to be expected with a class like Math 25. If you put in work, you'll get a lot out of this class.
This class will take a lot of your time and sanity. If you really like math, or are interested in the more theory areas of Computer Science, it will be very rewarding. Otherwise, stay away.
Math 25 is a great course if you want to challenge yourself in math and discover what advanced math entails.
Really interesting material and you will learn a lot of math! However, be prepared for a very significant workload, that will involve both time-consuming problem sets and time devoted to reading lecture notes and the textbook.
This class is hard. You'll definitely be staying up late the night before the psets are due to finish. The class can vary wildly depending on who's teaching it. This year, we had Eric Peterson, who was great, but he will be leaving this year, so I cannot really say what next year will be like. However, if you took 25a, you should definitely take 25b to properly round out your year and actually apply all the linear algebra you learned in 25a. Math 23a's textbook, Hubbard and Hubbard, is actually a great supplement for this course because it gives a lot of practical, hands-on calculations that we didn't get to experience in this very theoretical math class.
25b is a substantially easier course than 25a. But it's just as amazing. You learn the beautiful mathematics at the foundation of modern thought. You get a concise introduction to the foundations of modern analysis.Frankly, I'm not sure how much anything I can say is helpful -- my year, the course was excellent because it was taught by Prof. Kaletha, now at Michigan, who is a downright amazing professor. But if whoever is teaching it next year is as great as Prof. Kaletha, or even half as great, take the class!
Professor Kaletha won't be teaching it next year so my evaluation may not have a lot of bearing on your selection. But overall it's a solid option, especially if 55 is not to your liking due to its fast pace, occasionally hand-wavy proofs or absolute avalanche of work.
It depends on the professor, but the class can be much more difficult than 25a for people who do not know multivariable. Also the class probably won't cover numerical stuff very well so expect to learn that on your own. Do your homework.
The difficulty of this course varies with the professor, but make sure to account for the immense amount of time that you will spend doing math weekly if you decide to enroll.
The subject matter of 25b is a lot worse than 25a. While linear algebra was pretty fun, real analysis is just plain boring. It's hard to summon up the will to slog through the overlong psets when the material is so pointlessly uninteresting.
Math 25B is a great exploration of Real Analysis, starting from the very core definitions of inequalities, bounds, and numbers. Like Math 25A, the course will be another introduction to the real world of mathematics, but from another perspective.
This class will try you at times, but very rewarding!
The course is a lot of work and sometimes frustrating, but the experience is incredible and it is very rewarding. Another valuable thing about this course is the community that emerges, and the sense that the students are working together to understand the material.
It's a class you usually would take if math 55 is too complex for you. You learn a good deal about linear algebra and real analysis, however, you do a lot of theoretical and less practical problem. I really wish this class had lecture notes. You definitely have to put some hours to do well in this class.
Very difficult, but extremely rewarding if you wish to concentrate in maths. Learned a great deal about mathematical techniques as well as the subject matter which was very interesting to learn about.
It's a hard class, and more so if you haven't taken multivariable calculus. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who hasn't taken single-variable calc thoroughly (with Taylor's theorem, sequences and series, a clear idea of convergence, and some proofs). But if you love math and like proofs, go for it. Can't tell you about the prof, because my excellent one is leaving this year.Find good friends to work p-sets with, if you don't have some already from last semester. DON'T do what I did and try to fit this class in along with four others, unless you're much smarter than I amand I got an A in all of my classes, including 25a, last semester.
Math 25 with Tasho was once again an excellent class. The material roughly corresponded to Rudin's Principles of Mathematical Analysis, with many skipped sections, reordered material, and fun diversions that made the subject more intuitive and palatable.The class's largest strength was the professor, Tasho Kaletha, who is an excellent teacher and is supremely helpful during office hours, but is also fun to talk to outside of class. He is unfortunately leaving next year, and you should shop the class to see if the next professor is near as good.Overall, this is not worth missing if you are interested in math unless you are taking 55.
Don't fall behind in the notes like I did.
This is the single greatest way to build a foundation for proof based mathematics.
If you love math and are willing to devote a lot of time to it TAKE THIS CLASS.  That said, part of what made the class so worthwhile was Professor Kaletha, who will not be teaching it next year.  Professor Kaletha had a reputation for making the course harder than in past years, so maybe it will be easier next year.
Expect to work very very hard!
This was an amazing course and probably my favorite of spring semester. Unfortunately, future students will not have Tasho and therefore cannot benefit from his awesome notes and helpful office hours, but hopefully future professors will also be good. This course was my most difficult and time-consuming, but was well worth it.
This class is really solid. If you're willing to put the work in, you can definitely do well and get a lot out of the class. It introduces some very beautiful topics and lays the fundamental parts to calculus which is cool. It will be hard though, so be willing to put in work, but you don't have to do all-nighters.
Take this class if you love and understand complex math, and want to spend a lot of time on it. Otherwise, do not.
This course is hard. It takes your life. Be prepared.
