This class is very difficult but the rewards are totally worth it.
It's a good, but hard, life experience - it will build character. Try to work with others - otherwise you wont survive.
If you can survive it, it's a really fun experience.
The quality of the class varies heavily with the professor who is teaching it, but nonetheless you are likely to be challenged like you never have been challenged before. It can be quite rewarding.
McMullen goes at a reasonable pace, and you're likely to learn a lot if you put in the effort. However, you will be able to get more out of the class if you already have some experience with real and complex analysis.
If you are willing to put the necessary time and effort into the course, it can be very rewarding.
It's very challenging and requires a big time commitment, but is most definitely worth it (especially if McMullen is teaching it).
If you want an awesome, but also very demanding, math experience, take this course.
If you are very strong in math, give a try. But at the same time, consider math 25b if it is too hard.
It is intense, but also interesting, and you will learn a lot of math.
This will be a very rewarding experience if you're able to keep up with the reading and the work.  If you can't put in the effort, don't bother.
You will meet some of your best friends at Harvard in this class. But beware: it's not going to be easy.
This class is excellent, and I strongly recommend those who can take it to do so...with some caveats to be elaborated upon below.These are some of the strengths of the course, and why I think you should try very hard to take it:1. The material. To be honest, I'm not a fun of the Rudin stuff, but where else can you find a course that gives a ground-up development of basic real analysis and complex analysis in one semester? 2. Great professor. Unfortunately for you, McMullen won't be teaching it next year, but I hear Elkies is cool too. 3. Peer group. Here you'll find the most mathematically dedicated freshmen at Harvard. Some reasons to hesitate about taking the class:1. It's hard. It takes a lot of time and will detract from the other opportunities you have here.2. It goes as breakneck speed, meaning that you'll have less time to digest certain concepts. So what's an adequate level of preparation for this course? The technical pre-reqs are pretty minimal. There's no reason you need to know multivariable calculus coming in (I certainly forgot all of mine long  before this class). Contrary to some rumors I heard at the beginning of the year, it's not saturated with IMO medalists, or even MOPpers. Most people are USAMO qualifiers, though. Maybe the best way to see if you're ready is to just look at past course pages and the textbooks.
If your are wondering whether you can handle this course, remember this: it isn't just a matter of whether you are smart enough, but of whether you are willing to put in the time. That said, being "smart enough" is the main requirement. If you can do it, go for it. We became a very tight-knit group of friends, and this class contributed toward making this year the best year of my life (up to this point).
This class is a fantastic experience if you have the time to spend on it.
This class is great! If you believe that you have the required background are ready to spent a considerable amount of time on it, this will be a very enjoyable and rewarding experience. Just shop the class and you'll see it yourself.
Try not to be scared away the course's reputation, but also be aware the class is very hard. By the end of the year, you will be very happy with how much you have learned.
People who have taken 55a probably know whether or not they should take 55b or can, at least, figure it out on their own. As for other people, if you've found 25 unfulfilling then don't be afraid for a second to give 55b a shot. New blood is welcome and there's nothing to lose by sitting-in on a couple weeks. As for 55, in general, it's as awesome a math course as you can hope for and it can be the greatest part of your academic year if you let it.
Math 55 with Professor Schmid was great. Relative to other courses, it is difficult, but covers a lot of interesting stuff.
As with Math 55a, this class depends entirely on who is teaching it so YMMV. Also, when the class says, "It would be unwise to take a similarly time intensive class", it probably means that it would be unwise to take a similarly time intensive class (or three).
This course is somewhat more difficult than Math 55a - in Analysis, it's very easy to skip over important details if you're not careful.
55 is the best thing you could ever do if you are interested in math, because the rapidfire exploration of *worlds* of mathematics at a time and the fast-paced assignments will make your heart race with excitement.
While a lot of work, it is definitely worth the investment.
Professor Schmid covers calculus on manifolds thoroughly and rigorously and also provides great introductions to algebraic topology and sheaf theory. Definitely take this intro class if you want to learn some cool math!
This course should be regarded as the essential course for students seriously considering math, with a substantial background, and I strongly recommend taking it if it is at all possible. It is a class that transforms you from a high school student to a mathematician or math enthusiast. Even though I knew a fair deal of the material coming in, I still had a fantastic time in the class, seeing the material at a deeper, more cohesive level, and I would definitely recommend taking it. For one thing, there are usually very interesting and relevant problems, which really make you understand the material. At least this year, it was a lot more relaxed than the legends suggest, and homework generally took an average of about 8 hours. This course is basically a sampler of different areas in math. We did some topology, algebra, real analysis, differentiable manifolds, algebraic topology, and sheaf theory. Of course, the social aspect of the course is incredible. If nothing else, you will get to spend many hours with some of the brightest and friendliest people, and likely make bonds that will last beyond your college experience.
This course is awesome!!  You will learn a lot of really interesting math, and will have fun on the assignments.  Be sure you have a strong math background, and be prepared to spend a substantial amount of time on the homeworks.
By all accounts, 55b was a good bit easier this year than it was in previous years - which means it was still my primary time commitment for most of the semester.  Leave time to go over the proofs in class to make sure you understand them, because it's very easy to get lost otherwise.
Bro class. We bro it out. Yes. We math, and then we bro. Sometimes we bro and then math, but other times we math and then bro. Great opportunity to meet future bros (I'm not being sexist: bros are gender neutral, and refers not to gender but to outlook in life)
55b was like 55a on steroids.
Whether you take it or not should depend on how much time you are wiling to put into math, not how good you think you are at math.
The professor changes from year to year, and so the course content may change significantly. You'll  have to shop it and find out for yourself. Professor Siu's 55b was a great class. I felt it was harder than 55a but more enjoyable too.
If you're thinking about dropping, at least give it a try! The teachers WILL respond to evaluations, so the course is likely to be even better the second term.
This was one of the biggest mathematical challenges of my life, but I definitely savored every moment of it.  I don't think I've ever learned math at this pace before, and it was a blast.  The problem sets were always interesting, and the final exam problems were really excellent.  However, if you're not willing to sit down and have part (a) of problem 1 (out of 6) on the pset eat 6+ hours of your time, I wouldn't suggest taking the course, since it'll be really stressful.
Depends on who asked for a reccomendation
This is a tough, and very algebra-heavy class. However, Professor Siu is great to have for complex analysis, and the comprehensive notes posted on the website were amazing.
If you're prepared enough you will succeed - the course is not impossible, and you can (and will, probably) collaborate; if you're not prepared enough you can still do it but it will be painful - so think carefully.
Be prepared to work together with others to tackle problem sets.
If you like the subject of analysis, ignore me. But this class was an awful way of learning analysis. If you want the glory and respect earned by taking all of math 55, then by all means take this class and suffer like the rest of your peers. But if you want to learn and thoroughly understand this subject, do yourself a favor and take math 25 instead. As a message to math 55a'ers of the future: don't let your pride get in the way of dropping to 25. It's probably a better idea for your own mathematical skills.
If you are want (or are at least willing) to do loads of work and you like math, try to take 55. You will meet awesome people and learn awesome things from an awesome person.
Math 55 is quite the experience. Take this class if you have a genuine love for mathematics. Do not take it for the glory alone or because you are merely capable. That is not enough to get the full benefit of the course. Further evaluation is difficult primarily because the class is very professor-dependent. Professor Siu is intense, and as a result the class was more difficult than in years previous. However, no matter who is teaching, you will learn some beautiful mathematics. This year we took a long detour into differential geometry, prior to the complex analysis aspect of the class. My only complaint: sometimes the fundamentals are glossed over, namely I do not feel I have a particularly strong grounding in real analysis. All in all, this was the best class that I have taken at Harvard. 55 solidified my decision to concentrate in mathematics, and I grew into my own mathematically. I can't think of higher praise than that.
Well, now that you're looking at 55b, odds are that you've either already finished 55a (congrats!) or you're in 25 looking to perhaps possibly take 55, so you probably have a decent feel for how the class is going to be - again though, the class varies a lot based on who teaches it, so this probably isn't going to be of much help to you. Sorry. But yeah, shop it if you're thinking of taking it! It's lots of fun. Except for if you get really behind - don't do that; the end of your semester will be... very painful. Learned from experience.
Totally varies with teacher .  Only take it if you want it to be your first priority
This is a very intense introduction to Real & Complex Analysis. Even though I do think it lacks some intuition, it still was a very good course on Math and I'd take it again. It does take a lot of time, though.
It's 55 - you get what you signed up for. Covers a lot of college math in depth, sometimes without full motivation (unlike 55a). You've been through 55a so it's not as scary or magical, but still a difficult course.
I have grown to heavily dislike the subject of analysis as a result of taking this course. Algebra is so much better. I wish more geometrical intuition had been given, as often I only understood what was going on three weeks after I had to.
This course is simply amazing. It's really only when you look back on the semester that you realize exactly how much math you covered and how much you learned; Professor Gaitsgory makes it seem rather easy at the time. Many say that 55's treatment of analysis is not adequate for learning the material, but I find 55's treatment significantly better than Rudin's or any more "traditional" treatment. If you're interested in math, you absolutely should take this course; it will make your semester worthwhile. Don't worry about your grades; the important part is the amount of material you will learn.
This is an unquestionably fantastic course. That being said, it is mental murder. If you know without a doubt that math is your thing and you want to be spending over 40 hours a week just thinking about math, staying up pulling all nighters with friends discussing math, staring absently into your cereal in the morning visualizing math, then ok, this class is for you.
Siu is teaching next year, so you should check reviews from back when he taught it. But anyhow, Gaitsgory is the single best professor I've ever had. 55b was slightly spotty since Gaitsgory is so fundamentally an algebraist, so we did weird things like defining the integral via a commutative diagram. Regardless, Gaitsgory is sufficiently good that you end up appreciating the unconventional definitions. The class is absolutely worth taking. Do try to keep up on the homework, though.
Harder than 55a this semester. Had some insane homeworks. The final was cute.
I was burned out around halfway into the class (right after spring break). Math is hard, and this class is harder: it's 55. Be careful with yourself: it's a great class, but will devour your schedule/willpower. I honestly hated this class at some points in the semester, but I think, or at least hope, it was worth it.
This is an excellent class - definitely THE BEST one I have ever taken. My life was changed by this course (decided to switch from Economics to Mathematics after this course), and it's fascinating to expect more to come as a continuation of this class. Though this class might be know as "hard" and "full of genius" (the genius part is true), "normal" people ARE able to do keep up with the course contents and do quite well also - I am not an Olympiad competitor after all. The people you meet in the class are really awesome, the professor Dennis Gaitsgory is great, very helpful and explains concepts very clearly. I regard taking this course as my best decision of the year.Nevertheless, one should be psychologically prepared for this class - its over-10-hour-per-week workload, fast pace, etc.
Once 55a seasoned you, it's not terrible. However, analysis has its moments where everything just seems contrived and incredibly counterintuitive, so stay cautioned, but you end up learning so much math and it's just such a great feeling.
If you love math, definitely take it!  Especially if Gaitsgory is teaching it!
Have fun!
Gaitsgory's seemed much less passionate about the material in 55b than that of 55a, and as a result the class felt less special. It was still pretty fast and we did cover a lot though, so no real complaints. We also did cover some really interesting material at the end.
Dear future math 55ers,I know you're thinking excitedly about the challenges that lie ahead, ready to join the ranks of many who have suffered before you.Stop.Is this really something you want to do? Do you WANT to spend a lot of time every week doing math? If you weren't in math 55 (and had never heard of it), would you spend your whole semester thinking about how you'd rather be doing math?If so, then you should take this class. I did fine in the class both semesters, but I found myself a lot more frustrated than I'd ever really like to be. It's hard to do this much math; don't let anyone tell you otherwise. 55b (specifically, Gaitsgory's iteration of it) is a really brutal class if you have absolutely no background in analysis. The lectures get tougher because he has no sense for what is and isn't reasonable when teaching analysis, he's still drawing commutative diagrams all over the place, and you feel like you're in a convoluted algebra class again. Of course, there are the upsides: you're going to make some of your best friends, you're going to be admired around campus and you're going to learn a lot of math, as long as you're willing to put in the work.Make sure these positives are worth it. And be ready to work your arse off.With love,A fellow math-loverPS: If you haven't already figured this out, SC 229 is a great room to pset.
Gaitsgory is an awesome professor. Math 55 is an amazing class. Take it.
Take this course if you are really looking for a challenge. Even if you have taken college level classes at your local colleges, take this course. It tests your mathematical ability like no other course, and it provides you with a formidable understanding of the material - non-55ers will look at you in wonder as you walk calmly through your future math classes. The material is exciting and very important for your mathematical understanding.
Like 55a, this class is very time-consuming and will likely take over your life. It is slightly easier than 55a, as the problem sets generally only take 25 hours per week as opposed to 35 hours for 55a, but there were still some weeks where the problem sets took 55 hours. The exams also generally take up nearly their entire alloted periods of 24 and 48 hours. Like 55a, though, there are ample bonus problems so you can focus more on learning the material rather than worrying about your grade. It is definitely worth it, though, for you will understand all of calculus I, II, and III far deeper than you ever thought possible, from a rigorous derivation of the power, chain, and product rules, to the definition of the dx that appears in integrals to a deeper understanding of Maxwell's equations. You also learn complex analysis and topology. Definitely take this class, it is worth the time commitment.
Math 55b was light speed; light speed in that it covered so many topics of analysis/topology. You will not regret exploring these amazing subjects when you take this class.
This half of the course was far more difficult for me, but I had much more experience with algebra than analysis before coming to Harvard. It's a good course for getting to know other freshmen interested in math.
This class is awesome if you love challenging math psets and want to get a solid foundation in higher mathematics. Both of these were true for me, so I had a blast.
First of all, this year Siu taught this class, next year he will not, and 55 is extremely dependent on the professor, so keep that in mind and do give too much importance to this response if Siu is not teaching the class the year you are taking it. That said. I learned a lot, much more than I was expecting to. Of course, the problem sets are notoriously hard - and Siu tends to have quite an inclination towards obscene bashes such as proving the addition formula for elliptic trigonometric functions by means of the fundamental theorem of calculus. But still, that made me get my hands (very) dirty, which is good (and not easy if you are not required to do it) after all. Plus, there are some incredibly smart students in this class, from which you also learn a lot (unless you are extremely smart too, in which case I would not know). Summing it up, I learned a lot in this class. Didn't sleep much. But learned a lot.
SIU IS THE BEST. You get to learn so much about different parts of analysis in a single semester. One problem is that Siu doesn't teach us a lot, but he really makes sure that we learn a lot by ourselves. As a result, the course drives us crazy, but at the end of the day, we get more mature.
You will meet many amazing students in this class but be prepared to work many late nights every week.
I took this class expecting an easy Gen Ed and I was very confused when I could not understand even the key ideas. I only followed the boundary of the boundary of the lectures.In all seriousness, this class was quite difficult, and I would only recommend taking it if you want to devote your freshman year solely to math--the envisioned gain has to be worth a LOT of pain. We pulled an all-nighter nearly every week, spending half the time trying to even decipher to problems, and many parts of the class called for extremely heavy computation. You will become good friends with almost everyone in the class, but you might start to doubt wanting to be a math concentrator, assuming that all hope is lost because you can't solve a single problem on the problem set due in two hours. This class is a killer, and I recommend at least reading Baby Rudin and maybe part of Papa Rudin before the class. Experience with proof-based mathematics is a must.
This course varies greatly based on the professor. Hence these comments apply only to Professor Siu: this is a great course if you want to learn to think like a mathematician and be challenged with some deep problems. However, the actual quantity of mathematics you learn isn't all that great (for instance, we skip many topics from both introductory real and complex analysis in this course, which is slightly concerning as other mathematics courses require these topics as prerequisites), so you might learn more math by, say, taking 2 100/200-level mathematics courses. But taking Math 55 is an entirely unique experience.
If youre thinking of taking 55b, you probably know what to expect from 55a. This year, 55b was much harder than 55a, and we had to spend more hours on psets. I also think that compared to the effort I put into the course, I didnt learn as much as I could - the pset problems were sometimes just very painful and not very insightful. Also, 55 (as any other math class) depends a lot on the professor, so this might not be true in future years. At the end of the day, I think 55 was a good experience, mostly because of classmates and the time spent thinking about math.
probably not one of the easier gen-eds
This was a nice and easy gen ed for empirical and mathematical reasoning.  For people who are struggling to get a math course, 55 is a great way to do this.  But seriously though, I think 55 is a great course if you are willing to put in a LOT of effort and are very comfortable with proof-based and higher-level math (especially experience with proof-based math).  Otherwise, you will find this course hard to keep up with.  55a/55b is probably much more time intensive than any other math course at harvard, but unlike those courses in 55 you will develop a really strong community that I hope will last all 4 years.
I was among the students in the class who pulled an all-nighter each week before the pset was due. This was after doing some work on it over the weekend, too. That was unfortunate. It really screwed up my sleep schedule and life in general. But I liked the material and Siu is a master at analysis. I think if you finished 55a you should take 55b as well.
