This is a true graduate course and will be run like one, so your learning will depend on how much work you put in.
what do you get when you take the topology out of algebraic topology?  awesomeness.  you will be completely unable to explain what you are studying to non-mathematicians, but they will be impressed.
Hopkins is probably the most entertaining professor you'll ever have.
While the class covers great material, the professor sometimes doesn't prepare lecture as thoroughly as he should or prepare enough problem sets to make sure that the students are following the lectures.
Excellent class with extremely interesting material.
It is very interesting, but it requires a lot of work on your own.
Can learn more than expected in this course
Great material, taught by an great lecturer who also happens to be one of the leading algebraic topologists today. In his lectures Hopkins tends to stress intuition over writing out all the gory details; I found this approach helpful and enlightening.
I really enjoyed the material, and much of it is hard to find elsewhere. The lectures ranged from great to disorganized and hard to follow.
It covers an unorthodox but interesting selection of topics.
Would recommend to anybody who needs to know a bit more advanced algebraic topology.
It is very specialized, so only take it if you interested in hearing about the research world of algebraic topology.
I thought this class was significantly better than 231a. Hopkins gave very nice and prepared lectures, packing an interesting "story" into each lecture -- with a few exceptions, and some substitutes. The problem sets were good...but not always synced with the class. There were only 6 (which is apparently an improvement over previous years though), which were challenging and interesting. So if you're looking for a chiller 200-level class, this is good, but you'll have to do a bit of work on your own to make sure you stay engaged. A lot of background and mathematical maturity seems necessary to get the most out of the class.
If you are interested in algebraic topology definitely take this course; it goes into some of the more modern fields and really develops material that you wont find in a canonical textbook.
By far the most beautiful area of mathematics, taught by one of the greats.
I guess I don't really understand everything that was said, but I'd still recommend the class because Barwick expresses an almost infectious love of the subject.
As an undergraduate taking this, I found my background to be rather insufficient. However it was very rewarding and I learned a lot.
I didn't realize that 231br would be so much harder than 231a.  It seemed like it might have been necessary to study a lot more about algebraic topology between taking the two courses.  We got through a lot of material, but about half of it flew over my head...but it was nice that the class was really relaxed about problem sets and there weren't a lot of requirements in the class.
this is a 2--b so it's going to vary a lot. this year was insane (for someone who just took 231a last semester); Kirsten advertised it as being suitable as a continuation, but we did some really crazy, abstract things. nevertheless, even though i didn't understand the entire course, i was exposed to and learned a lot of cool stuff anyways.
Though this course differs from year to year, this year Math 231a wasn't really enough of a background to get much out of this class.  I found it very difficult, though thankfully the homeworks were relatively easy and short.  I would recommend, though make sure you are comfortable with the first couple of lectures.  In retrospect, I shouldn't have "toughed it out".
Take at your own risk, depending on the professor. It's really hard stuff, and if it's not explained really well and if you don't have a huge amount of time to pore over the book and figure it out yourself, you can just get lost. Organization was rough.
Make sure to do some reading outside of class to get a better handle on whatever Prof. Hopkins teaches in lecture.  Also sections (if there are any) are pretty good for answering questions.
Take this class if it is taught by Hopkins again! Professor Hopkins is extremely knowledgeable in the material and really humorous! His assignment is often really inspiring on further development of algebraic topology. However, math 231b is significantly more difficult than math 231a (I miss those days when algebraic topology is still easy...). Prepare to spend lots of time in math library to read lots of literature to understand the material.
This is definitely the best class I have ever taken. There was so much interesting material, and Hopkins presents everything in such a slick way, so learning from him is so much more than just having someone present material to you straight out of a textbook you can just read on your own. I devoted most of my time this semester to keeping up with this course, but it was definitely worth it. Hopkins is the man.
Professor Hopkins is clearly brilliant, and he /can/ be a very good lecturer at times, but much of the time he was disorganized (or absent), and the course suffered as a result. There were some very cool topics this semester that are definitely worth understanding, but (more so than usual, even for a grad class) putting in your own time will be key to actually understanding them.
Be aware that if Mike is teaching the class, the lectures tend to be somewhat disorganized and it can be confusing if that's the first time you see most of the material. Otherwise it was great!
We learned a lot about K-theory and characteristic classes, but the first few lectures of the course seems a bit slow. Then again, the contents of the course changes every year, so this might no longer apply in the future.
basically a course on (topological) K-theory, but K-theory covers a lot of really cool stuff, including the J-homomorphism and answers to Hopf-invariant one and vector fields problems. was reasonably paced, too.
Gereon was great - started off slow but we got to some really useful material and the final paper was a good way to end the course.
Lectures at the start of the semester were a bit slow, but the material was very interesting and the final paper was quite fun to write.
This class is very interesting.
Algebraic topology is an important subject to know, so take this class!
This was a great introduction to homotopy theory, with an emphasis on computing homotopy groups of spheres. Peterson's lectures are generally really clear and concise, and he makes difficult tools like spectral sequences seem natural. One problem I had was that he doesn't explain a lot of detail in class and leaves them for us to read in the book. So be prepared to do some self-reading if you really want to learn algebraic topology.
this class is difficult but rewarding and also incredibly individually gratifying
The topics in this class change from year to year, but this is definitely a must-take for anyone interested in graduate work in algebraic topology or related fields.
