This year and the year before, this class was taught by Prof. Sternberg and has gotten a reputation for having a small time commitment, but still decently interesting problem sets which are mostly independent of the lecture (hence many students not attending the lecture). I have found that reputation mostly accurate, and as such liked the class for what it was, but future students should be aware that this may change significantly in the future if the class is taught by a different instructor.
Under Sternberg this was a good survey of "serious" real analysis. Lectures are comprehensive but quite fast (and posted online), problem sets are fun but superficial to the material. This led to people not attending class; all the material is there though, so you can learn as much as you'd like.
I loved the concept of the class. You get as much as you want out of it as the homework does not really cover the lectures. Also Prof. Shlomo is a legend.
This is hard to say, because interests vary among people.
The teaching is excellent -- very clear, generally easy to follow, very helpful in understanding the material.
If you are into statistics, partial differential equations or some applied mathematics, you will need this course.
There will be a lot of problems in exams.
I enjoyed Professor Siu's lectures very much; at the beginning of each lecture he summarise previous material, then he went on to provide a historical overview and explain the essential arguments in the proofs. My only reservation about the course is the difficulty of the exams, as the questions were challenging and there were many of them.
Interesting problem sets and interesting lectures, but there was very little connection between them.
Real analysis is a beautiful topic and Professor Sternberg provides a wonderfully pedagogical account. The course requires a very high level of maturity because the problem sets do not follow the lectures, so all learning must be self-motivated. It is very easy to let the material slide and to stop learning it.
Overall a good class. The problem sets were interesting and well-written. They often provided neat applications to physics, probability, etc. Lecture could be a little dry (powerpoints). The grading and due dates were quite relaxed which was nice. Also, the online texts published by Sternberg were helpful. One of the major benefits of the class is getting to know Prof. Sternberg. He's a really interesting guy who has seen it all. I would definitely recommend if he's teaching.
This course is a bit odd. On one hand, the material is actually very interesting, and the problem sets are also very interesting. On the other, the problem sets have nothing to do with the material, so it is kind of difficult to learn anything unless you are very devoted. In my opinion the class covered a lot of pretty advanced material, so if you really want to learn the stuff and you have time to spare, then you should definitely take it. However if you don't have extra time beyond doing the problem sets (which have nothing to do with the material), then you might not get a lot out of the class.
The material presented in this course is very useful and interesting. The lectures are pitched, for the most part, at a very high level, while the problem sets are much easier and don't require really understanding what is going on. That makes this class manageable, but also hurts the learning experience. Provided that you read Prof. Sternberg's notes, you will learn quite a bit in this class.
interesting choice of topics, but more or less irrelevant to passing qualifying exams
The problem sets are good, and if you're only concerned with your grade they're all you need to do. The lecture material is much, much more difficult, and if you're not motivated you probably won't get much out of it. I took this class as a sort of capstone of my undergraduate math studies, and as a 'last hurrah' (I am going into another subject). It wasn't too well-suited for that, but then again I don't suppose it ever meant to be.
The lectures are poor, in large part because of the choice of PowerPoint as the delivery mechanism. If you actually want to learn the lecture material, you will have to do so on your own.  The homework problems are easy and unrelated to the lecture material.  Each one contains some additional reading, and that's all you need in order to complete them. The above comments apply only if Sternberg is teaching.
If they are not self motivated, they probably won't get much out of it. But if they are, then it's great.
If you just want to learn measure theory and integration, you don't need to take this course and probably won't want to either. However, if you want to learn about operators and spectral theory, this is probably your only opportunity--and a good one at that--to learn the subject at Harvard.
The course is pretty good and useful.
interesting material, relaxed class
It's a very challenging course that covers the theory of Hilbert spaces, Banach spaces and measure theory well. The rest of the material is presented at a very fast pace and requires lots of self study to grasp. Too much focus is placed on topics that only pertain to physics.
you only get something out of this class if you attend lectures. problem sets have very little to do with lectures.
You should take this class if you are *very* comfortable with following extensive mathematical arguments without falling behind, and integrating diverse mathematical knowledge on the fly.  That said, the mathematics is beautiful, the course delves deeply into a lot of material, and Professor Sternberg is a great person to know.
fun material, though somewhat esoteric. not required knowledge; only take if you have a special interest in real anaylsis.
Lecture material is interesting, though homework really doesn't seem related (even though there are some connections near the end).
Problem sets are great.
Good material, interesting homework, and not stressful.
Math 212a was one of the best math courses I have take and Harvard.
The course is very excellent and we can learn more applications about real analysis
The class will depend heavily on who teaches it.
Enroll if you intend to attend lectures.
You should take it - it is a good analysis class.
Easiest math class I have ever taken.
Useful stuff for budding analysts (of which I've noticed there aren't many here...) although the material is blown by at an extremely rapid clip
Great for people with solid background in what you would usually learn in a "normal" real analysis class. This class will then give new perspective on some of those materials. Otherwise you would have to work hard before being able to appreciate the beauty of things taught in class. But definitely this is compensated by a stress-free learning environment (no exams), so I guess the real purpose of this class is "learn what you wish to learn out of the class".
Well organized and not that much work. The problem sets are often very basic, so you may not come out understanding the material as deeply as you want to.
