interesting, cool material, chill
Strain is great. And he made the class a hundred times easier than Siu has in the past, from what I understand.
Don't take this class unless you're sure you want to be a math concentrator.
Very applicable math class with interesting material.  Even for students who are not mathematics concentrators, this course would enhance their integration techniques and be quite useful.
It will be taught completely differently with a different professor so see for yourself. The material is really interesting though.
Do NOT take this course with this professor; as it was taught this year, it is a complete waste of time.
Generally interesting material; variably taught.
Pay attention to the professor whenever you pick a class.
complex analysis is important, cool and fun.
Math concentrators are required to take a 110-level class, and Math 113 is a popular choice. Students should select to take Math 113 depending on the level of rigor they are looking for and the kind of thinking they want to be doing. They should definitely shop the course first.
Take at least one real analysis course before this. Also HW does not correlate to the tests.
This class really shows the power of complex numbers. Furthermore, it is probably more readily applicable than other intro classes.
The lectures are very straightforward. Pay attention, do the homework (not too bad) and you'll be fine.
This is a horrible course if you don't like computational things or analysis. You don't really get a good grasp of what analysis is, and when you do, the class doesn't give you an intuitive feel of how analysis works. It's very computationally driven, and when it's not, it involves a lot of concepts that are not made clear in class.
Complex analysis is a fascinating subject, and Antti Knowles is a very well-organized professor.
Out of seven math classes I have taken at Harvard, this was by far my favorite.  While that is partially just a matter of preference when it comes to subject matter, it can be equally attributed to Professor Knowles.  He is an amazing teacher, entertaining and informative, very clear, and very good at answering questions.  He is by far the best professor I've had for math while at Harvard, and in the top handful overall.  I highly recommend this class, but even more, I highly recommend taking a class with Professor Knowles.
This class is a great class for concentrators in math and concentrators in the sciences, such as physics and chemistry. It really broadens the scope of computability in differential and integral calculus.
Complex analysis is an essential subject for any mathematics or physics concentrator. Be ready for  a high level of rigor and an almost neurotic attention to detail. This is not really a complaint but it does get painful on some of the longer problem sets.
Complex Analysis is so cool. It will make you remember that you don't actually hate math. Prof. Knowles is good at making the material understandable, and the problem sets are clear and not impossible. Highly recommended.
Good class
Math 113 was the best math course I have taken at Harvard. All the lectures made complete sense and information was presented in a very clear and intuitive manner. Professor Knowles is the best math professor I have had. He is very good and I would suggest taking classes taught by him. Complex analysis is also a very exciting topic. If you liked Calculus in high school, Complex analysis will be way better!
good course, if you keep on top of the psets everything will be fine. make sure you have the time to seek help from other students and the teaching staff, because it is extremely difficult to do everything on your own.
You may wish to consider learning basic complex analysis on your own and taking 213 instead.
Complex analysis is a beautiful subject with lots of applications.
Under Andy, this class flew through material. I felt like we got to the midterm and had already learned an entire semester's worth of material. We went so quickly that by the last few weeks, I felt like Andy was just looking for more things to teach us and take up time. Still, I learned an extraordinary amount of material. The textbook was the greatest asset of the course!
Complex Analysis contains cool stuff, and I would advise you to check out the instructor for the semester because the instructor makes a big difference!
Complex analysis, regardless of whether you like it or not, is an important part of any mathematical toolbox.
Complex analysis is cool! You learn to do cool integrals, sums, and products, it's pretty sweet. Also complex analysis is phenomenally useful in other areas, such as physics. For example, in areas with no charge, the electric potential is a harmonic function, so we can define a complex potential that's holomorphic and thus a lot nicer to work with. Other properties of the potential function, which are presented without proof in Griffiths, follow straight from the Mean Value Property and Max-Mod Principle. Cool stuff. I was talking to one of my physics instructors this semester, and he told me that if supersymmetry exists, a bunch of functions all become holomorphic, things like charge become residues, and the calculations becomes much nicer. Also pretty cool.
This class was very reasonable. Psets not too bad and midterm was fine. You just have to do it. The math is pretty cool once you do it.
I'd recommend this course with enthusiasm because I think that complex analysis is a very useful and important (and cool) branch of math that all math students should take, and this course hits all the important parts.
After you've finished the 21/23/25 series, complex analysis is one of the more useful areas of mathematics left to take
If Cotton-Clay is teaching it, maybe wait for another professor. He's a nice guy, but his lectures are pretty disorganized and were a factor in me skipping class. The subject itself is pretty cool though.
Complex analysis is surprisingly beautiful, and that makes this a fun course, but take it with a different professor, Cotton-Clay should work on his teaching.
Andy was very good, particularly considering that geometry is his speciality, and not analysis. Complex analysis is surprisingly elegant material.
Lectures were a bit disorganized, and not always that helpful. But the lecture notes were very good as was the text book, so I would highly recommend reading both. Also section was very useful. Even though our TFs told us that it would be OK if we handed in p-sets a bit late, its still a good idea to do them on time. Having 3 or 4 psets hanging over your head going into reading period isn't too much fun.
It greatly depends who's teaching it. While Professor Yau is a very likable man and had a lot of interesting things to say about life, his teaching was very unclear and it did not seem like he put much effort into the class, so I basically felt like I was teaching myself out of the textbook. Very interesting material, though, and certainly worthwhile to learn.
It's a good class. The material is straightforward enough, and some of the results are pretty neat.
April 25, 10:24 PM:there are two problems in the final that appeared in the previous assignment.  Please dont' do those two problems yet.  I will update the final shortly.April 26, 10:23 AM:Can some of you tell me which problems in the final were assinged previously?---As with all math classes, the professor matters more than the material.  And the above interaction is characteristic of Horng-Tzer Yau.
Complex analysis is very beautiful and worthwhile to take! Prof. Yau is really chill.
The material is both interesting and useful, and the professor was good.  The course was difficult, but this varies widely depending on the professor.
Complex analysis is pretty cool. There are some pretty magical things that complex differentiable functions do (as opposed to real functions). As a physics person, you can also see quite a few connections to E&M stuff, for instance; Yau pointed out some physics applications, but only briefly. Yau's all right as a teacher - probably went a bit fast for me, and followed the book (Stein & Shakarchi) so closely that I only sometimes felt I was gaining more out of lecture than reading the book straight-up. But he's an amusing guy.
Yau was pretty awesome prof. (both in terms of clarity of math and also in terms of hilarity of life stories/lessons told) so if he teaches it again, definitely take it.
The early half of this course (which followed Stein Shakarchi to the letter) is great. The basic results of analyticity and continuation are very elegant, and I suppose contour integration is very useful. A lot of this course consists of very tricky bounds or analysis style limit arguments plus a hefty dose of computational calculus. It can get tiresome but I think you get some of the flavor of analysis that way. If you want to really understand complex numbers rather than hardcore analysis this is probably not the right course.Also if you want to hear HT Yau's fun stories this class is great for that. To paraphrase an example: "Many people in math are really weird. They are so weird, the way they think, there is no way you can compete with them. For example, ramanujan, ..."
This is a rigorous and difficult introductory course in complex analysis or a great second course in complex analysis. Either way, I learned a lot and I would recommend the course whenever Prof. Yau teaches it, although at times you may feel lost or overwhelmed.
Complex analysis is - eh. Better than real analysis, but it's still analysis. It's hard, and not very rewarding. The first half is reasonable useful, though.
As with all math courses, the material is irrelevant, it's all about who is teaching it. HT Yau is a boss, but he kind of goes overboard with how much he is teaching you in just one semester.
I liked this math class. This is my first math class after Math 25, and I kind of took it for fun. I had taken a little complex analysis in high school, and I remember it being difficult (of course I barely even had calculus at the time) - this time around it is much clearer. (Looking at previous year's comments,) Adam Jacob is a pretty good lecturer, and Marsden and Hoffman is a good textbook. I wish the TFs provided more support outside of class, but it wasn't really necessary (for me) anyway. Having someone to help/check/work on the psets helps a lot of course. PSets and Exams are fair
meh
Material is very interesting.  Definitely a good class to take for math concentrators.
Very reasonable class.  You learn a lot and it's not overly difficult.  Taught strictly from the book-all the homework problems come from there.  Very standard and not overly time consuming.
Complex analysis can be beautiful.  It's a fun class that isn't super difficult.
This is a pretty good course. (1) The subject material is very important for people studying mathematics. (2) The course is primarily designed to teach methods to solve new problems (read: integrals) and the rationale behind those methods. It's not overwhelmingly focused on proof, but it does provide a good look at complex analysis in general. (3) Problem sets can be tedious. But you will learn a lot by doing them.
Complex analysis is so beautiful! You learn a lot of useful computation tools / ways of evaluating integrals, and it is also just great to learn about all the nice properties of analytic functions.
Math 113 is a great course!  Adam Jacob was an excellent instructor, and he was easily accessible outside of class.  We learned material that is relevant both to other math courses and to other fields such as physics.
The material itself is not the most interesting, but the evaluation of real definite integrals is pretty cool.
As usual, the class varies greatly from year to year. This year was pretty boring. Adam Jacob lectured straight out of the book-most people realized in a couple weeks there was no reason to actually go to class, since you could just spend an hour skimming the book and get just as much out of the class. The book was not a great one, it was Marsden/Hoffman, Basic Complex Analysis (would not recommend taking the class if this is the book to be used). It doesn't focus on the actual theory of complex analysis nearly enough - rather, it states a bunch of theorems, and the exercises are all basic applications of these theorems. The actual proofs of these theorems are often deferred to the end of sections or later sections, since this is clearly not the emphasis of the book (in other words, if the class follows this book closely, you'll essentially be getting the applied math version of the class, which might not be your thing). So yeah, this time around, the class was basically evaluating a lot of integrals for a semester, and doing an easy proof every once in a while.
For some reason, calculus over functions in the complex numbers is incredibly convenient. I am also now able to do integrals I thought were previously beyond mortal reach, which is pretty great.
This is a nice introduction to complex analysis. It was well-taught and well-structured. If you are interested in math (or physics) this class is worth considering.
This course was pretty easy (especially coming off of Math 25 freshman year), but in it you learn some useful tools (especially for physicists) such as contour integration and analytic continuation. Not the most exciting class, but definitely teaches what you need to know.
Math 113 with Adam Jacob was a good (but not outstanding) class. It was fairly easy compared to some of the other 100-level math classes, but you do get a very solid grounding in complex analysis. Most of the problems assigned for homework were practical rather than theoretical.
This is a really cool class with a lot of surprising theorems! Definitely take it if you can!
Mostly it was textbook = lectures/homework, which is not a problem if you want a coherent course. The material is interesting and beautiful, this is an important course to take!
Adam Jacob is a meticulous and clear lecturer who clearly enjoys complex analysis.  The exams were easy.  The homework was reasonable.  The class overall was not very difficult.  Overall math 113 is a good 4th class, although some students did find it a bit tedious.
We had a great professor -- or lecturer -- but I heard this class can be quite terrible if you have a terrible lecturer. This is an analysis course so you kind of get what you expect from an analysis class.
Do not take this class with Jacob. He lectures straight out of the book and this is not at all helpful for getting in intuition on topics covered. You can basically skip lecture (and after the first couple of weeks, more than half of the class apparently agreed) if you read the textbook. We used Marsden which was not a good text choice in the first place so this class was really so-so.
Complex analysis is a beautiful topic. The properties of differentiable functions on the complex plane are a lot more interesting than the properties of real-differentiable functions, which makes the subject matter of Math 113 very interesting. However, the proofs in complex analysis tend to be more computational and nitty-gritty, compared to the more conceptually driven, clever proofs in (say) Math 122. Regardless, complex analysis is still an interesting field worth learning.Adam was helpful and approachable and did a great job of explaining the relevant material in a way that was accessible and understandable. It would have been nice for the course to cover a wider array of topics (since complex analysis is a rich field with a lot of content that we didn't touch on at all). Regardless, I certainly learned a lot, and this course was certainly worth it. The workload was substantial but definitely not unmanageable.
Good class, applicable to many other fields. Adam Jacobs is a good professor and lecturer. Don't let the
If there is any other course in which you can learn complex analysis, take that instead, because the skills are important. Don't take this. Lectures consist mainly of the textbook being written on the board. The homework is either trivial or irrelevant and needlessly difficult; it doesn't help prepare you for the examinations very well.
Taubes is such a great math professor - it's a shame that his lectures were attended by so few students.  Complex analysis is a beautiful field of mathematics that has some surprising results.  Make sure you review multivariable and know your line integrals, as those are pretty fundamental for the course.
This course is highly dependent on the professor. Try it out. I didn't enjoy the lectures very much, and if the textbook is Ahlfors I would recommend buying and using a different one. The material is great but I didn't feel like I learned it well this semester.
If you're going to take complex analysis, you might as well take it with Taubes so that you have a little wiggle room with completing the assignments perfectly. That being said, Ahlfors is not a good intro to complex analysis textbook.
Prof. Taubes does a good job explaining material in detail, but that also means that there is often not time to cover more interesting material.
Good class that uses Ahlfors, which is still the best complex analysis book.
Like any math course, the quality of this course is extremely dependent on the professor. Clifford Taubes is not the most engaging or clear lecturer, but he brings cookies, assigns reasonable problem sets, and occasionally tells great stories. Ahlfors is a classic text in the subject, though I personally wasn't a huge fan. The midterm and final were treated a bit lightly than I think they deserve--I found them to be really useful in building a very solid understanding of two extremely important topics. In general, Complex Analysis is extremely powerful and can be, at times, beautiful. The results aren't necessarily super applicable because Mathematica exists, but they are useful in understanding why and how Wolfram evaluates several integrals, etc. If you are concentrating in math or physics, you should probably take this class.
The experience depends COMPLETELY on the professor who's teaching. Taubes was great, but be sure to check out evals on the prof who teaches this next year before you register.
Presents what could be really interesting material in a really poor way. Ahlfors is a really unclear textbook and the class is based entirely around it. Taubes is earnest but often doesn't seem to understand what undergraduates have trouble with and what they find easy.
As with most math classes, what matters most is the professor. Taubes is pretty easy, a little of a slow lecturer, but a very nice guy. I would suggest taking a class with him.
The class has different professors every year. If you're slightly less comfortable with higher-level math, then you should take the course if Taubes is teaching it. Taubes makes the course very relaxed and, although problem sets are ocassionally very difficult, the class is a much more manageable math class than most other courses in the 113/114/115/122/123/131 group of courses (especially if Taubes is teaching it).
It's good stuff
Given the disconnect between the homeworks and the lectures each week, and the fact that here are no tests, it's very easy to fall behind in this class and be playing catch-up. Try not to do that and your life will probably be a lot easier.
Definitely take this class if Prof. Taubes is teaching it.  You will get a thorough understanding of complex analysis.  The class requires a fairly significant time commitment, but you get out what you put into it.
Take this class if you have to. Otherwise, analysis is a rather unwieldy subject so better to explore the more elegant side of mathematics.
Didn't get much out of lecture. Ahlfors is a difficult but interesting text. Taubes assigned writing projects instead of midterm and final, which was chill and easy, and helpful for learning the specific topics assigned, but we were essentially not responsible for much of the material (especially at the end of the course).
I was told that complex analysis is a very useful for other subjects (such as physics), and I can see how the topics covered could be applied to other subjects, but we were not taught exactly how to apply complex analysis to problem solving in physics or other disciplines.  In addition, the problem sets were very computational.
Taubes is nice and communicates the material reasonably, but lacks charisma. The book is terse and could have a more coherent presentation. The material itself is fascinating and invaluable.
Among the most interesting math courses, definitely a must-take for math concentrators.
With Clifford Taubes, the lack of stress about the grading really allows one to appreciate and learn complex analysis for the beautiful and powerful mathematics.
Although Professor Taubes is really nice, his lectures could seem unprepared and not engaging. Given how easy the midterm and final are, it is very easy to come out of this class having learnt virtually nothing at all--be prepared to self-study out of the textbook if Taubes is teaching again.
If Taubes is teaching 113, take it. The class was extremely laid-back, and the writing projects were more helpful in understanding the material than studying for tests would have been.
Complex analysis is one of the cooler and more applicable branches of math after freshman year. However, Ahlfors is one of the most terrible textbooks I've ever used. Had I known earlier, I'd have relied on a different textbook from the start.
complex is really cool, and it comes up a lot in other areas of math
lmao this class. I'll start with the textbook. Ahlfors's book is allegedly "celebrated" for its broad and rigorous discussion of Complex Analysis. Bull. The book sucks. Ahlfors is the kind of guy who will start a proof on the board, and about two statements in will say, "and the rest is trivial, class dismissed," when there's still 55 minutes left in lecture and you're left packing up your bags like, "lol wtf is math". That's not even a joke though. His book is bad and he should feel bad.   I'm spending so much time talking about the book because I spent 95% of the class using the book to learn, since lecture wasn't much better. I LOVE Cliff Taubes, don't get me wrong. He is hilarious and an absolute sweetheart. But damn son... you need to step up your lecture game. You can't be putting me to sleep like that, ya heard? Oh and I heard section sucks. But here's the good news: THIS CLASS WAS EASY AS A MOTHER... really, it was soooo easy under Cliff-daddy. No exams, just a 6-page midterm and final lecture writeup where you summarize what's covered in 20 pages in the book. He even tells you what you did wrong and lets you fix it, so you are like, guaranteed a 10/10 or whatever he gives it. Zero stress.Is the low difficulty worth not learning that much? Ask your GPA. Either way, the material is great, so take this with an altogether different teaching staff?
Professor Taubes is a great guy - he brought us cookies every Friday lecture.  But he also really knows his stuff, and he made this class worth it.
Taubes is an OG
This course under Professor Taubes was quite good if you're not looking for an extremely fast pace and challenging complex analysis class. We took our time with the material but eventually covered most of the important topics, like complex integration, power series, etc., most of which are really cool results. The midterm and final were excellent take home projects that were graded on a scale of 100% or try again. That being said, they were serious assignments and I learned a lot by doing them. Overall, a very chill math class.
This class was pretty easy partly because of the structure of the class but also because complex analysis itself is not that difficult as a subject. Unfortunately, Taubes' lectures did not help at all and were not worth attending. The problem sets could be done just by reading the book or finding the solutions online. It was an easy class, but also a disappointing one since class itself was unnecessary.
I would not recommend this class with Taubes.   I took it because I wanted to take a moderate math class while still learning something, but in the end do not feel that I learned much.   Lectures were very slow and often had mistakes, and the textbook was dense and difficult to follow as well.   So I did not feel that I had a good understanding of the course material and would get through the homeworks without understanding the core concepts.   The incentives were set up so that pretty much everyone would get a good grade and the midterm and final are pass/resubmit, which deincentivized me from learning anything in this class.   Do not take even if you are looking for an easy math class in my opinion, because you won't learn much.
Professor Taubes is great and emphasizes learning over grades. The Ahlfors book is  not the best for learning the material the first time though, and the lack of emphasis on grades can make it difficult to be motivated enough to truly learn the material
This is a great class, but be prepared to study the textbook (Ahlfors) in much detail before, after, and sometimes during lectures.
Difficult but essential if you're interested in doing serious math.
If Professor Siu is teaching Complex Analysis, take it! The class is hard, that's true, and some students might therefore trash it in the Q. But if you're not scared of working a bit, Prof. Siu's presentation of the material cannot be beat. He motivates every single theorem with incredible, often historical, exposition, and gives you a real feel for the material. The problem sets are an excellent mix of calculations to make you really understand how to use complex analysis practically, plus more conceptual problems. There are applications to fluid dynamics, electrodynamics and number theory. By the end of the semester, you will truly understand complex analysis, at much greater depth than with almost any other prof.
RUN. This course is atrocious and Professor Siu is the single worst professor I have ever encountered at this university. His lectures are incomprehensible trash. The homework he gives is insanely long and difficult. The exams are also impossible and he only gives you three hours to do them. Why he imposed this arbitrary time limit to do difficult mathematics is perplexing, but needless to say there should not be timed exams of that difficultly and length. Many of the problems require so much computation that they simply cannot be done in three hours. Needless to say, Math 113 is more difficult and time-consuming than the graduate-level course Math 213A if Siu is teaching it. Don't believe me? Look at the Canvas sites. Also be aware that there is no support in this course (the CA was MIA and Prof. Siu is not helpful). If you take this course, you're on your own. The CA never held office hours or section and didn't grade anything until reading week (so no feedback). I think what this course needs is a professor that likes undergraduates and is a competent lecturer (plus a graduate CA that knows the material solidly). For the professor, might I suggest Professor Hopkins? Professor Harris? Clearly this course should never be taught by Y.T. Siu. Finally, I suppose you should be aware that the textbook is available for free online (likely because it is garbage). This is not a reason to take Math 113.
Went through the entire Stein + Shakarchi book - very fast paced
A few of crucial things: First, I would strongly recommend against taking this course with Siu. He covers significantly more material than other professors do, and his exams are unreasonable. Each exam was equivalent to more than half of a problem set, but with only 3 hours to complete them (some problem sets took me north of 20 hours). Perhaps most importantly, he did not release solutions to problem sets or midterms, and feedback on midterms was not detailed or helpful. This made it virtually impossible to improve your problem-solving skills and performance. Second, I would recommend taking real analysis before you attempt this course. I was told that it would be fine to skip Math 112, but in hindsight I would recommend against it. Third, you should be very self-driven if you hope to succeed in this course. The professor and TF were VERY flexible on deadlines (all assignments due the day before the final, with no penalty for lateness). While this can be helpful during a busy week, it made it very easy for myself and others to fall behind on the material. It also meant that problem sets were not graded until the end of the course, which made it difficult to evaluate your own understanding of the material.
Try not to take this course with Siu. He's a great guy but is incomprehensible as a lecturer, assigns long & hard psets that don't improve understanding of the material, and is tough on exams.  For exams know that Siu LOVES conformal mappings so be ready for those. Also a big fan of harmonic functions as well as deriving inequalities from the Cauchy Integral Formulas.In general be readdy to grind analysis  style (bound  integrals,  mess around with inequalities). Kudos to you if you like  that stuff.
This was a challenging, but fascinating course.
We did A LOT. Comparing syllabi, it looks like we covered at least as much as a lot of graduate courses in complex analysis and the problems were certainly just as hard. I think I eventually appreciated getting to see pretty much the entirety of Stein and Shakarchi, but I feel like I could've done with less. This is also likely due to having the class taught by Professor Siu. All of this stuff is really easy for him and, thus, you will have a harder time understanding his explanations and he feels like he can move through more material quickly. I've heard that in previous iterations of this class, the amount of material covered has been less. However, I will say that this will build your analysis skills if you stick to it. The bar for entry for this class is pretty low. You need to know the results of Stokes' theorem and what the basic components of analysis proofs are (convergence of series, limits via squeezing, other stuff like that).
Under Siu, this was the hardest undergraduate complex analysis course in the country, without a question. I looked at the syllabi and assignments from other good schools (MIT, Princeton, Stanford, Columbia, Cornell, UCLA, etc.), and none of them covered as much as we did. We went through the entire book of Stein and Shakarchi, and only Princeton's course even came close (but they had 5 questions a week for homework and we had ~8). I would say we covered all of the core undergraduate and graduate curriculum. The course was so intense that our CA had just as much of an idea as us how to solve many of the problems, since they covered so much less in his year.That being said, Siu is a very kind man and he is very glad to help out at office hours. If you're a strong math student looking to suffer and grow in a 55-esque experience, I would actually recommend taking this course. As an aside, it was kind of poorly coordinated from the math department to make this an anti-req for 55 when it was paced just about right for 55 students and covered many topics that they didn't cover. I would hope in the future that they split complex analysis into two courses, like many other universities do. One course like this one for hardcore math concentrators, and one course which covers the usual undergraduate curriculum, which would be useful for engineers or math concentrators who don't want as intense of an experience.
Complex analysis is a fascinating field with many applications. It often answered for me questions I had about mathematical concepts, so in many ways, it was a class that helped me solve problems I'd had on my mind for a while. You learn methods to solve math problems that you might have seen before but not have known how to evaluate.My problem with the course was the structure and instruction. Most people will have a hard time following HT Yau, I think. His lectures can be both fast and disorganized, and often, many steps in the calculation can be lumped into one, which might leave many students stuck on understanding just the mechanics of a calculation.
Don't take it if it is with Yau. Otherwise, consider taking it.
Complex analysis is a lot of fun--there are many very interesting, counterintuitive results about how complex functions behave, and you will come across a lot of clever arguments in the proofs. Stein and Shakarchi is a great textbook. Lecture was a little hard to follow, but reading the textbook helped, and this is a really important class for math as well as physics majors.
The course moves very quickly
Stay away if Prof. Yau is teaching! His "lectures" consisted of mumbling long, messy expressions with little or no motivation, and were riddled with an unacceptable amount of errors that made everything even more confusing. The class is also incredibly disorganized; for example, the final exam date was not set until April, and even then it was almost moved again had it not been for student backlash. The content of this course is actually quite interesting, but many of the homework problems are essentially algebra bashes or require very tricky analysis-style thinking. The one saving grace of the class is the textbook by Stein and Shakarchi, which is a good book and presents the material in a way 5x clearer than lecture.
Math 113 is alright. Pretty standard stuff that every math concentrator or anyone who will eventually use math needs. Yau was also pretty good. Class was always clear, and he clearly cares about the students and their wellbeing. He also likes to take breaks and "share wisdom" by telling stories of his life when he was a student.
Complex analysis can feel very unmotivated and very scattered, especially if you enjoy the linear and steady buildup process of math courses that cover more algebraic topics (25a, 122, 123, etc.). While Professor Yau really means well and is a really nice professor, the course was still quite unorganized and hard to follow, probably owing to the frustrating nature of complex analysis.
I would not recommend this course if H.T. Yau is teaching it. Otherwise, it's probably fine and the material is very good to know.
You've got to actually study a lot outside of the homeworks and lectures that Yau gives to truly have a grasp of the material.  That's not Yau's fault, but like I think a lot of people in the class this year including myself just didn't invest that time.
As with all math classes, this response is highly tied to the professor. Complex analysis is beautiful. However, Yau;s class was very poor, it was frustrating on multiple levels; his exams were exceptionally unreasonable, and his lectures were incomprehensible/lacked focus. In the end, everyone in the class just taught themselves out of Stein or Alfhors' Complex Analysis.
Without a doubt the most ill-managed and poorly run classes I've taken here, and the only one I've given below a three overall. Lecture, between the insane pace followed for the first half of the course and the more or less direct copy pasta from Stein-Shakarchi, was nearly entirely useless. Assignments were obscenely difficult. The only redeeming quality of the course was the generous use of partial credit, without which no one (literally, no one) would have gotten above a C+ on the midterm.
The course is necessary for many people, but I would avoid Prof. Yau. His lectures were usually very difficult to follow, and his exams were completely unreasonable (not connected to the material in lecture and on psets and far too difficult for the allotted time - it seemed like he just gave what was originally supposed to be a take-home final in a 3-hour period).
I would only recommend this course because it's a concentration requirement for Math, but it was one of the most painful classes I've ever taken. Everything we did in class felt completely unmotivated. There was no explanation of concepts whatsoever - it was just copying down formulas and proofs in a way that didn't feel cohesive at all. At office hours, the CAs would Google the answers and struggle to understand those solutions while we sat there in misery. If other Math department classes are like Math 113, I will most likely switch out of the Math concentration. For all the frustrating hours you put into 113, you get no understanding, intuition, or mathematical maturity coming out of the class.
Complex analysis is soooo nice relative to real analysis. Take this class to understand the following joke: Why did the mathematician name his dog Cauchy? Because the dog left a residue at eery pole.
I mean, this is important stuff - the material is cool. Make sure to shop and see what the instructor is like.
