Difficult because lectures are bad and lecture notes aren't solid
This course was very good, and Prof Shapiro was a great teacher. Sometimes we did not spend enough time on difficult concepts in the astronomy part of the course, but I liked the astronomy part of the course the most. The exams and homework were very reasonable and fair.
Almost a history of science course, specifying the progression of a number of scientific discoveries in different areas of empirical science. Relatively untaxing. Instructor is interesting to listen to.
Irwin is an AMAZING professor, suuuper smart, and the class will teach you a TON of super interesting information.  It's just a lot to cover, and sometimes it's hard to know what you were supposed to take away from a lesson.
the course might be a bit harder than you expect, but it's definitely been worth it overall.
This is objectively one of the best Science Geneds you can take. The material was extremely interesting, and what is great is that the professor tells you about many important concepts without going into so much detail as to make it too hard. The course was also not very difficult, and I would highly recommend it. The professor is also amazing!
Although this class got low ratings last year, Irwin and the TF's were very dedicated to making it better-organized and more user-friendly this time around. The lectures are accessible and interesting enough, if a little bit meandering. The midterm this year was VERY difficult, but Irwin took that into account in grading, and designed the final to be significantly easier, so I wouldn't hold it against him. Irwin is very smart and so sweet, and as a bonus, the second half of the course will be really easy if you took AP or IB Bio in high school. Great way to fulfill an SPU core given that only half of the class is actually about physical sciences.
Very good class as long as you attend lecture regularly, otherwise the lecture slides that are posted are often useless.
The workload is relatively low until the end of the semester, but the material is pretty consistently unchallenging.
Worst class ever.  There is no work involved, but you really wont learn anything either.  I never wanted to do any work for this class because I felt like the entire teaching staff wasnt interested in my learning or gaining anything from the course.
Be sure to go to lecture - the best part of the course is Irwin and his presentation of course concepts.
This is a fine course to take to fulfill a requirement, but don't expect it to be as easy as it might appear.
For those who aren't science-inclined, like myself, this course is a pretty simply core requirement to fulfill. Professor Shapiro is a great guy who obviously enjoys lecturing, although I'm not sure he quite knew how to teach undergraduates who weren't well-versed in the sciences. He actually made lectures too juvenile and simple.
totally unpredictable. final exam had questions/topics that not only were not on the study guide, but included some that most students could not recall from the course lectures
The course is an easy and reasonably interesting way of fulfilling the Core or General Education requirement for either Science.
It is really scattered and not well taught.
Professor Irwin is very friendly and the lectures are a lot of fun! The class is very enjoyable and includes many optional activities such as museum visits and observatory visits. The final project was really nice and the topics were very flexible.
Do NOT take this class
The Unity of Science is a brilliant idea that gets executed halfway.
Course material is kind of scattered, no coherent theme to the class, and problem sets are not always graded fairly.
If you are a thesis writer, do not take this class.  The makeup midterm was not only harder than the regular midterm, but the mean was significantly lower, and you're still graded on the overall curve.  Again, THESIS WRITERS: DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.
It was not a difficult course for someone with any experience in math and science.  Lecture may be confusing, but you really only need to know what is explained further in section. Irwin is super sweet, and the problem sets  are usually neither long nor strenuous.
take this only if you're a glutton for punishment.
This course gives a very broad introduction to astronomy, geology, and biology. It is somewhat disorganized and needs more time to come together and be developed. It can be frustrating at times because things are so disjoint but its not terribly hard. It is good because it counts for either Science A or B too. There might be more interesting core/gen-ed classes to take though as this one can be a bit of a sleeper.
I would tell students to be expected to be prepared to use their math skills, even though this class claims to not focus on math.  It is crucial for the quantitative section of the midterm and final exam.
Lecture is boring but you should go.
Great class! Definitely take it.
unless you really like the HISTORY of science. definitely not for you.
It was not very coherent and unnecessarily difficult.
This class is much more like a history of science class than a science class.
Don't take this class
This was the first year of this class so this may not be representative of what it will be next year but there are some definite problems with this class that need to be cleared up. The professor was unclear about what he wanted. The lectures were in a narrative format which made it difficult to extract what exactly needed to be known.
Fun material, great professors, an enjoyable class
Do not be deceived by the interesting title. The funniness of the professor wears off after the first two weeks. So much of this course is unorganized, it's amazing that it is offered at Harvard. Lectures NEVER finish ontime (never completed), the sections didn't start until 2 weeks before the mid term, the homework assignments are posted like at 3am, the diagrams that are promised to be posted online take so LONG to get posted (since the course goes too fast in order to cover too much material that you can't copy them during class without missing important information), the homework assignments are too complicated and wordy (this is supposed to be a "fun" challenge, like a riddle, but it really gets annoying when you have ten thousand other important course materials to get through, and this is the last course you want your grades to suffer on), and finally, the TF grading is messed up (ie I don't think the word consistency is in the course's dictionary).
This is a terribly unorganized class. The exams are unfair. I feel like I didn't learn anything. Only bright side: Irwin is amazing.
This class is extremely easy, if you remember anything from your high school science curriculum. But because it's easy, it might be boring. Also, at least this year, it was disorganized.
You better really like science and math and be very very interested in the material or else you will struggle.
Go to class because the final was hard
If it is more organized next year, then it's a great class. Also needs to figure out how to deal with people who have different levels of science.
This class is easy, but not as easy as it looks
really poor science core.
take the class if you want an easy core, but its not very fun and frustratingly uninteresting.
The course covered interesting topics, but the lectures were only sometimes helpful and often were confusing. If you don't have at least some background in mathematics, much of the subject matter will be very difficult to understand.
Run. Away.
best class I have ever taken
Awful. It was nice not having to buy a textbook, but not sure saving $50 was worth the pain of this course.
Irwin is one of the most enjoyable -- and best -- professors I've had at Harvard, and his and the TFs' enthusiasm for the subject matter made this a great course.
This very interesting class mainly covers the history of science. It's a good introduction to history in astronomy, biology, and earth science/chemistry.
Not great.
This class is really interesting if you want to learn how the entire scientific world is interconnected. I think it is particularly intriguing if you never took a class in astronomy or geology. Professor Shapiro is very funny and approachable. As far as Science of the Physical Universe classes go, I think that this course is definitely one of the more manageable ones.
This class could be great if they streamlined a few things.  Professor Shapiro is not the world's best lecturer, but if he found a way to be more concise he would be fine.  I found being in this class stressful because I had no idea it would be so poorly structured.
Take a SPU where you will learn something instead of wasting time with this one. Its not worth the trouble.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS FOR CREDIT.  Sit in on the lectures if you want to see Irwin speak, but spare yourself the pain of the most horrible class design.
take it only if you want to satisfy the requirements with minimum work
If this the syllabus for this class does not change, then I would not recommend it, but if it narrows its focus, then I would definitely recommend it to anyone needing a Science A core.
This class has moments where it teaches students great lessons and stories about science.  However, at times it is very disjointed and needs to be structured better.
This class is poorly taught, has so much work, and nothing is done right. The biggest regret of my undergraduate experience is taking this class.
pay close attention in lecture, be willing to seek out tf for extra help
Oh where to start...stay away.  Run away.  Don't go near this class.  The homeworks have nothing to do with lecture, the midterm contained "choice" and some people lost 10% almost automatically on the midterm because they picked a question with a much harder grader.  This looks like a cute core with a cute old teacher, but I dread the day that I let someone talk me into taking this class.  It is applied wikipedia-- you'll look half the stuff in desperation a few days before the final.  I don't know what science core to recommend, but do not DO NOT take this one.
This class was wonderful! I enjoyed Irwin's enthusiasm and his obvious love for the subject.  I would highly recommend this class.
Irwin is the most amazingly adorable professor EVER.
I deeply regret taking this course; it is nothing short of a waste of part of one's Harvard education. The course is disorganized and meandering. Lectures are lacking in focus and detail. Homework assignments were all over the place and unified by no particular theme. In fact, the course is unified by no particular theme. It strives to cover all of science, and in doing so, it actually covers, much less teaches, nothing. The teaching staff is uninspired, and any material is covered only at the most superficial level possible. I felt like I was treated like a 5 year old at all times. The course's only redeeming value is that it is ridiculously easyto the point of being a joke.
it's very easy so long as you go to lecture.
This class can be frustrating - the lectures while interesting are often hard to follow. The scope of the course is potentially too broad (I understand that this was the first time it was taught and I anticipate it will be streamlined next time it is taught). If you are not mathematically minded you will be uncomfortable and confused much of the time.
Not the best choice. Not worth the effort.
Absorb the man's wit, humour and knowledge
The class is horrible. It is incredibly disorganized. The TF's are wonderful, for the most part.  But the class is much harder than it should be because its ineptitude to teach you fundamentals before catapulting you into work that should not be hard, but is. Do not take it. My worst class yet at Harvard.
GO TO LECTURE
audit it, dont take it.
This class provides a great opportunity to increase one's scientific literacy.
it was poorly taught, disorganized, and I probably won;t retain much of what was "taught" in this course.
A pretty easy way to get Science core/gen ed requirements out of the way.  It's historical treatment of scientific discoveries is an interesting and illuminating approach to the material.  It probably shouldn't count for sciene b/life sci because the biology component of the course is pretty minimal compared to the science b/physics component.
it's a relatively easy way to knock out a science A or science B; hopefully it will improve as the tfs and professor figure out exactly how they want to teach it.
Very easy way to fulfill a gen-ed requirement, although topics aren't all explained fully.
It looks easier than what it really is.
This class is very interesting and engaging and the professor is great!
This class can be fun, but also frustrating. Be careful.
A repeat of 8th grade science!
Some of the problems on the first few problem sets were a bit difficult, but manageable
It looks easier than what it is.
This is a good class if you're interested in science. You don't have to be good at science, but you do have to be interested to really enjoy this class. Keep in mind though that the lecture notes are not entirely through and no lecture videos are provided, so be sure to attend lectures. Irwin is a good lecturer, so going to class is worthwhile.
It's very little work, but also often hard to follow. The problem sets aren't difficult in themselves, but they're written in a way that makes them difficult to parse,
lectures are hard to follow
There is a lot of homework and you get shafted on the grading
I would warn them about the organizational issues.
Disorganized class.  Many TFs only educated in one specific area.  Content is too broad and disparate.  Grading is at best ambiguous and at worst unfair.  If you need a refresher of your middle school science classes, this might be a good fit, but if you're looking to learn something, you "need not apply."
This homework assignments are frustrating, and lecture can be rather tedious.
not a good class, but probably better than the other options for science A or SPU.
There's a lot of material you will remember from high school, and you may finish the course thinking that you should have taken a different SPU class.  However, the workload is light, the exams are fair, and Irwin is a very approachable professor.
It's a pretty easy science gen ed, if you are looking for one.  Not a lot of work but still pretty enjoyable.
If you are irked by organizational maelstroms, this is not the class for you. If you are annoyed by breadth-not-depth curricula, don't take it. That said, it wasn't difficult.
The course is a little disorganized... but it isn't too hard.
Great way to appreciate the interdisciplinary nature of science!
Irwin is more passionate about teaching undergrads than any other professor that I've had in 4 years at this university. He cares deeply about his students and is thoroughly invested in helping them learn. He is an incredibly nice guy and, if nothing else, all Harvard students should reach out to him for coffee simply to see what the best of Harvard faculty is like. That said, at times, I found this course to be excessively burdensome for a Gen-Ed. A broad range of topics are covered and with no textbook, it can be difficult to keep up if you are not highly passionate about the subject matter (as I doubt anyone is in fulfilling the Gen-Ed requirement) or possess some level of previous knowledge that I did not have prior to enrollment... downsides of the course aside, I truly cannot speak highly enough of Irwin as there is no professor who I've encountered at this school who cares as much about teaching undergrads and seeing his students succeed. This man deserves an award.
Irwin is wonderful, and you learn a lot about the important issues in important scientific fields. The material is not very difficult but it is interesting. Some of the work is tedious (though it does not take very long to complete). Overall, I definitely recommend this class.
DO NOT TAKE IT. It's misleading, dull, frustrating, and, perhaps worse of all, I didn't take anything concrete away from it. We would spend a few days examining some tiny snippet of information, and then move on to something completely different with no further explanation
There's no lab, but also no prep for exams,
This course was not unorganized (as claimed by many in the q-guide of previous years). However, the homework had a lot of writing component, which made it a bit more work than expected. The materials are not hard and the class was easy in general. Would recommend anyone for SPU/SLS.
This course is probably the easiest course at Harvard.  You will get an A if you are competent, but you'll probably feel badly at the end of the semester that it was that easy.
Pay attention in lecture!!
Obviously, if you're looking into the possibility of taking this class, there is only a very limited possibility that the material covered can excite or interest you in any way. The best aspect of this class is that Irwin and the TFs try very hard to make the course worthwhile. That being said, steer clear unless the structure of the class is changed. Doing a lengthy final project, unrelated to course material, and rote memorization for the final is not how to have a good reading week. Problem sets are fairly easy, but expect to waste a lot of time on ambiguously worded questions thinking that they are much harder than they actually are. I have done my best to be constructive in this evaluation, but feel I should mention that this was one of my least favorite classes at Harvard and every time I had to sit down and do something for it my mood soured. I can not recommend taking this class; the material is not particularly interesting, there is a lot of busy work, and the grading seems arbitrary and mean.
There are other SPU's you can take.  Take one of them.  Trust me.
Do not take this course!
Irwin is kind and thoughtful. His TFs (I can only speak for this year) were the same. The topics are interesting, if the content was sometimes plain. The history can be very interesting, but can also not be very interesting at all. Very well organized (in contrast to complaints in previous years): the topics all cohere and make sense together, even without a textbook. Very easy and low on requirements. Currently one of the only gen eds that does a review of the sciences, something that is desperately in demand.
This course is not for everyone, but I loved it. It's a great, straightforward way to take and even enjoy your SPU. Irwin and Michio are fabulous.
A true waste of time. Was simultaneously treated as a high-level scientist and a child. The course was poorly organized, poorly taught, uninspiring, and plain silly. Find another gen ed, or choose from a list of more challenging science courses. I learned little to nothing in this course that I couldn't find on Wikipedia in 30 seconds.
I really enjoyed the course.  It answers those questions you've had on all aspects of science since you were a child.  Irwin is such a nice man and really cares about his students (he makes sure to know everyone's name).  I would caution that some of the questions on the exams were worded confusingly, but I trust that it will be curved well (as he promised).
This class is incredibly hard. Professor Shapiro is very enthusiastic, but it doesn't make up for the fact that half of the class failed the midterm and he did not want to curve it. This is a Gen Ed and there were physics concentrators who couldn't do well in it.
Most of the SPU Gen Eds are pretty miserable.  Having shopped many of them, I thought this one wouldn't be that bad, but I was wrong.  The lack of a textbook makes it pretty tough to complete problem sets or prepare adequately for the exams, both of which are graded pretty harshly, even though the class doesn't really cover incredibly complicated material.
Make sure you get a good section leader.
This class is not a cakewalk. It was not very interesting, and the first half of the course is much more difficult than the second half. The exams are very difficult, and you'll mostly have to rely on a curve to pass the exams.
pseudo-science class uncorrelated with your actual knowledge of science. you don't learn much useful stuff and exams are not that easy (eg. midterm had an average of 60). weekly work is 0 though.
Do not take this class.  Shapiro does NOT believe in curving or scaling of any sort...in a gen ed science class.  If you want your GPA shafted then proceed.
It is a very low time commitment but you will probably leave the class knowing little more that what you were taught in middle school and high school.
You will learn things that you will never learn as someone who won't take physics or astronomy if it weren't for GenEd.
This course gives a very nice overview of major milestones in the history of astronomy and biology, and ties things together with the overarching "unity of science" theme.
This course covers very interesting themes and Professor Shapiro is witty and knowledgable, but the lectures sometimes felt rambling and I think the course would be strengthened if it required any kind of course pack or textbook to go with it. As a senior who hadn't reviewed algebraic concepts for four years before taking this course, I also felt it was difficult to grasp some of the quantitative problems included in the midterm and final exam.
This class is not very good. It's poorly organized, the tests are unmanageably difficult, and the subject material feels disjointed.
This is definitely not the best choice to fulfill a science Core/GenEd requirement. The course material is uninteresting and unclear.
It gives a good introduction to the vast topics of science.
I would recommend this course with reservations. My biggest recommendation to a student about to take this course wold be to supplement any confusing points in lecture right away with the sometimes clearer resources available on the internet.
Nice way to fulfill the gened, and Prof Irwin is great and entertaining.
The course is poorly structured and almost impossible to do well in. If you are a humanities person looking to get your SPU requirement out of the way in a painless fashion, do not take this course. Though there is less class time than in other SPU gen-eds, those other classes are likely more well organized and putting more time into them will be rewarding. In this case I didn't feel like I could ever do well, no matter how much time I put into it, because the exams were so arbitrarily constructed. Who ever heard of a final exam which asks you to use equations you've never seen before?
This class is great because it's an SPU that only has 1 hr lectures and no lengthy lab time. Other than that, it's going to be a pain. I would recommend a departmental science course or another SPU.
It's the reason why you don't take Gen Ed science classes unless you really can't spare the time for labs. It does somewhat adequately provides a broad overview of the history of science though.
Professor Shapiro is a brilliant man who is not always the best educator.  I would not take this class if you do not have a strong background in science. If you do want to take this class, be sure to "bond" with your TF who will be instrumental in filling in some of the gaps that Professor Shapiro is not always effective in doing.
While the class touches on the many topics of science superficially, it is a LOT of material to learn without a textbook. If you go to lectures it's pretty easy to just memorize names and dates, but the astronomy parts are a little more difficult. Hopefully in the future they will provide practice problems in order to better prepare you for the midterm and final. Overall, the course is enjoyable (and Professor Shapiro is adorable) but be prepared to learn an overview of many different topics in science.
Who would have thought a class called the Unity of Science would be so disorganized? The class had some interesting content, and in theory it would be great. However, I got a terrible TF, found lectures slow and confusing, and lost interest quickly. It was an easy class, but a painful one.
Very interesting course material. Covers a lot of general science topics without getting too bogged down in details. Professor Irwin is very entertaining. Also, one of the best SPU/SLS Gen Eds out there that doesn't have a lab req. Highly recommend.This course exposed me to significant collection of topics from general science, and helped me answer questions I've always had about science but never thought to ask
This class is the worst class I have ever taken.  The stuff you learn in lecture doesn't show up on homework, and the stuff on homework doesn't get explained in lecture.  Had to constantly email with questions.
You're missing out if you don't take a class from Irwin (as he asks people to call him).
Easy SPU course. Prof. Shapiro is funny too.
The mix of topics was pretty interesting.  There is a definite slant towards applications of physics (radiometric dating, interferometry for detecting movement of continental plates, etc.), which probably reflects Shapiro's area of expertise.  There is also a focus on understanding the way that the various scientific facts were discovered, rather than just memorizing stuff.  The lectures were logical and fairly interesting, though sometimes a bit slow, and with lots of little diversions (for instance, Shapiro really likes talking about the Nobel prize for some reason).  It's very easy.  Sections were a waste of time.
Homework assignments are generally the best preparation for exam material. It's helpful to combine lecture notes with other students to make sure you've got all the important concepts covered. This class really covers a lot of ground, but is very manageable with a good set of class notes.
All you need to do to do well in this class is pay attention in lecture, attend section, and turn assignments in on time. I think a good 5 or so hours of studying each for the final and midterm could secure strong grades there.
This is a solid choice for SPU as a humanities concentrator.  If you go to class and pay attention, or watch all the lecture videos, you will understand the concepts and do well.  If you don't, you won't.  I recommend the former, because I did the latter and had a lot of catching up to do in the end.  That said, the teaching staff is really excellent and invested.  They do a great job of putting together the course.  I would recommend it!
Worst mistake of my college career so far.
The problem with the course being both SLS and SPU is that there are a lot of physics concentrators taking it for SLS, and bio people taking it for SPU -- so if you're a non-science person it is really unfair. Irwin is so sweet and nice. The work for the class is interesting but sometimes does not fit into the rest of the curriculum.
The historical component of the course is neat and the course is definitely geared toward people who don't have extensive science backgrounds, but many of the topics discussed will still likely be confusing because in general the concepts are difficult, and/or the professor does not always do a great job of explaining them.
This is a fairly interesting, relatively painless class. Go to lecture, take notes, and I can almost guarantee a high grade.
Take this class if you are willing to put the work in.
At times a little disorganized, sometimes frustrating. But I learned a lot and am better educated having taken it. Could benefit from a bit more organization (and a textbook for sure) but the teaching staff is lovely, helpful, and accessible.
The course could have been interesting if it: a) were structured well, b) had better teaching staff, c) had better materials (readings, supplementary books), d) projects/homeworks/tests were all more clear.
The material that you expected to learn often varies so widely from the focus of lectures that (with no textbook) it makes it very difficult to learn.
It's an easy class, but to the point where things get kind of difficult simply because the professor tries to dumb things down too much and doesn't full explain what is happening.
It is relatively painless and it may make you reconsider your lack of interest in science.  (But maybe that's because it's too painless for it to actually feel like science.)
This class is an interesting review of many of the greatest scientific discoveries, and allowed me much insight into how the world works.
This class is a gem. Irwin's a sweetheart and clearly loves both the subject and teaching. It's not particularly challenging, which actually made me more likely to work hard to master the material because I knew that the concepts were actually within my ability to grasp.
expect it to be tough and a lot of info to remember
This class is a great option for SPU! It's not flashy, but you'll learn a lot and the teaching really does care about you!
This class is very interesting and the teaching staff is incredible. I recommend with reservations because as a general education course I wasn't look for it to be too difficult, but I am not from a science background and I found that some of the material (particularly the first half) took a lot of effort to learn and digest. Lot of material to cover, interesting topics, awesome teaching staff. If you are passionate about the material, and willing to put a lot of work in to learn it, this class is a good one!
This class is minimal time commitment in terms of class hours, but the exams and problem sets are not easy. If you are not strong in math, I would avoid it. Not a very intuitive class, completing assignments was a struggle. But, minimal class time.
It's not a bad class if you're very interested in science, but the course's disorganization can be a real problem.
This is a great class!
This class is a good way to fulfill SPU or SLS. I didn't like many SLS courses so I took this for SLS.If you are strong in math/physics and need a SLS, take this. I liked the problem solving aspect of the class. Also, the teaching staff this year was really good. It's a shame that the attendance has decreased in the recent years, but I think smaller size made it worthwhile because the students and the teachers got to know each other very well. Irwin is very nice and approachable like your grandpa.
Good class and a great teaching staff.
This course received poor Q Guide ratings over the past few years, so I was very pleasantly surprised by how it turned out.  The teaching staff is incredibly approachable and always willing to help.  Lectures are more like stories that explain concepts through the history of science than long lists of facts. The tests were rather tough, but a lot of material for preparation is provided.  I recommend this class to students looking to fulfill a science GenEd requirement who may be better at the Humanities since there are a lot of opportunities to include writing in your work like a final paper and essay questions on the weekly homework.
It'll be easy if you're pretty good at math / sciences and application of mathematical principles comes naturally to you, but otherwise, it's pretty torturous since the lectures do little to help you and the psets ask of you things that were never taught.
You might be a bit bored but it's interesting if you like the subject
AVOID AT ALL COSTS. DO NOT TAKE. DO. NOT. TAKE. Trust me this class will kill you. It is hard and not interesting and disorganized and the Josh the head TF is god-awful. The psets are annoying and the midterm is very difficult. The worst part is everything is worded in the most confusing way possible. JUST DONT TAKE IT. trust me on this one. Irwin is nice and sweet but the TFs ruin the class.
As far as SPU gen eds go, this is one of the more painless ones and Irwin is great. Psets can be kind of tough (but do-able) and you just have to remember that whole thing operates on a curve.
I thought long and hard about what I would write here. Prof. Irwin is great, and his lectures are certainly informative and interesting, focusing more on the history of science and less on explaining the science itself and the formulas behind it. I feel like I learned a lot. But it was a very painful and difficult journey, primarily because I am not a science concentrator and did not really study science in high school. This class is not a gen ed, it is rather more similar to an introductory astronomy course with less complicated math, followed by a mostly random section on fossils and finishing with high school Mendelian genetics. The problem sets can be infuriating, and my science roommates had to help me do them every week because the material had rarely been covered in lecture (and unlike some other science courses, sections in this class only review the lecture material, they do not really teach the science behind the history). The same can be said with regards to exams, where one could see a very strong correlation between prior science courses and grades. It is a bit annoying when the grade is determined more by prior knowledge than by the effort you put into the class. I finished with a relatively strong grade, but it took me several dozens of hours per exam of video watching, online reading and harassing friends to understand the material. This class is great for auditing, and can be painless for science students, but I would recommend that social science/humanities students look elsewhere unless they feel very confident in their science abilities. It is too bad because Prof. Irwin is really nice and smart, and the TF team has a lot to contribute, but they have been teaching and doing science for so long they forget that concepts like beta decay, chart of the nuclides, parallax and DNA replication might not be extremely obvious to some. Every year they seek to improve it, and this year was certainly an improvement to last year, with more practice problems and even a study guide, but right now the class is in limbo, too easy for science kids and too hard for non-science kids. Prof. Irwin needs to focus on one group or the other.
not a large time commitment; interesting material and helpful, understandable lecturer
I would take SPU 30 instead of this class.  There was a sneakily large amount of work.  Every homework had at least one question that asked us to respond to the readings in 2-3 double spaced pages.  So essentially we had to turn in a response paper and pset each week.  There were very few guidelines or resources available for the final project (they wanted us to be "creative") but it was difficult to get a project topic approved.  Grading was very strict, with very little or no partial credit being given out on the homework.  The best part of the class is that they give you very detailed study guides for the exams, so if you can memorize those and handle the basic math you can do well on them.
I would tell them to not be afraid to ask more questions if they do not understand something, and to not be afraid to approach the professor. He's very nice and VERY helpful.
This class is a good way to fill the SPU or SLS Gen Ed requirement. It doesn't require that much science requirement or that much work (there is only one Problem Set per week), but the problem sets often include a large reading component so may take more time than you think. Overall, the math used in this class is just basic geometry and algebra, so if you're not a science person, I'd definitely recommend this class.
This is a waste of your time. It is low workload, but the information is so annoying that it doesn't matter! I would have rather taken a harder course to fulfill the SPU requirement.
I would definitely recommend this class; I think I learned a lot about the "unity of science" and how to apply science to the real world. Additionally I learned a lot of history about science, which was really nice because prior to taking this course I had not learned much of the "historical" aspect of science. I would definitely recommend this class, and I think if you put in good effort, you will do very well! The professor, Irwin, is delightful and incredibly helpful, and the TFs are also very helpful in answering any questions you may have!
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS, especially if you are a non-science/humanities person trying to fulfill a gen ed requirement. It is confusing and disorganized and kind of a mess. Irwin is incredibly sweet but he alone is not worth taking this class.
This course seems like a nice way to satisfy the SPU requirement, however its title is a little more elementary than the content. The problem sets are weekly and kind of tricky, and the exams were tough because so much material was covered and only a little tested. So you have to learn a ton of material in order to make sure you are covered for the exam. Often times the study guide was totally unlike the final. In addition, there are reading assignments that appear on the exams. It is course where you will learn interesting facts, albeit in a somewhat disorganized way. However, all that aside, Irwin Shapiro is AMAZING. He is so sweet and so available. If anything, take the course so you can get to know him.
It's an interesting gen ed, but it has a lot of drawbacks logistically
Irwin is amazing, loves the material, and loves his students.  However, this course is painful.  I have a strong science background... despite the title of the course, this is a history class, not a science class.  Students who could memorize all of Irwin's stories were better off than students like myself who actually understand the science.  With that said, it's commendable that Irwin loves to discuss the history and stories behind scientific discovery, but it makes the course outrageously hard for an SPU. In addition.... the midterm and the homeworks are graded very unfairly.  Despite getting everything right, I'm still getting terrible scores on everything because my TF didnt "agree" with my approach....
if you're in the sciences, it might be a breeze but if you haven't taken a math or science class in 5 years like myself, you got a bit of work to do
DO NOT take this class. Even if you got lotteried out of Natural Disasters or Prim Nav, it's definitely worth it to try again before you resort to this. Though it only meets 3 hours per week, you'll find yourself consistently puzzled by homework problems, as the class is composed of, "three separate entities: lecture, homework, and exams." There is no continuity so going to lecture isn't even worth your time unless you want a story about how science happened. Irwin is nice and pleasant, but his presentations are rather dull (white slides with lots of text).
Irwin is sweet and obviously brilliant. Still, this course felt disorganized and poorly taught (especially the section component)I was excited for the course in the beginning, but was thoroughly discouraged by the end. Prepare for easy HW and a midterm and final that ask for recall of absurd specifics.
This class is pretty terrible. It covers far too much material and in the process accomplishes absolutely nothing. Such a pity because Professor Shapiro is a true great.
I don't understand why the Q scores of this class of the years before me are so low. THIS CLASS IS AWESOME, AND EVERYONE SHOULD TAKE IT. I'm serious. Irwin teaches very well. He is also super friendly when you go to talk to him outside class. Some may say the class it "too" easy, but I think, as a "unity of science" class, it does a perfect job illustrating that point. Though I thought I knew so much science before, I still learned a lot from the course. TAKE IT! YOU WILL BE VERY HAPPY. :)
Decent Gen-ed. pretty interesting and easy. You get a great study guide for the midterm and final.
Do not take this class. I came into this class having already read all the Q guides. I thought I was coming in with my eyes wide open. Instead, this class was even more aggravating than I expected. Every single time I thought about this class I would get incredibly stressed out and really annoyed. If I were taking this course just out of interest, it would maybe be okay, but the fact that we are expected to synthesize the information given to us into homework and exams makes this class impossible. We are taught high level scientific concepts with no scientific or mathematical grounding. Furthermore the information is confusingly taught and the course meanders. Professor Shapiro is a really, really nice man and obviously very knowledgable. Maybe it was just me but I just could not get myself to like this class despite that.
It's difficult and not fun
This class was badly organized and attempted to put too much information into the semester, to the detriment of all of the subjects that it attempted to teach. We moved on from every subject while I still had a tenuous grasp on the material. The p-sets often are not intuitive given the material of the class, and you end up having to use Google quite a bit. Irwin clearly really cares and you might be lucky enough to get TF who is very helpful, but you also might not. I would steer clear.
This class is time consuming and quite challenging if math is not your strong suit.  However, the material is interesting and Irwin Shapiro is fantastic!  You can use the final project as an opportunity to explore the topic that interests you most.
Irwin is a legend and loves teaching - it really comes across in this class.
don't waste your time. it may be easy for a while until they test you on things they never taught. too boring to get through.
Do not take this class if you are trying to find an easy SPU and you don't like science. It is not only the most boring class you will ever take at Harvard, but it is also extremely difficult for a Gen Ed. There is no connection between any of the components (lecture, section, homework) so you're expected to know how to do all of the hard homework p-sets with some background knowledge that they don't tell you you'll need. It is absurdly difficult for a Gen Ed and there are better ways to fulfill this requirement.
This class is a great way to get a Gen Ed for math, physics, or life sciences. It has a little bit of math and some writing involved, but very little, and it isn't challenging.
Unless you need it for GenEd credit, this is senior spring and it is the only SPU that fits your schedule, DO NOT EVEN THINK ABOUT taking this course. Far too painful for a GenEd and quite hard to foresee what tests will be like. Review sessions are awful, and lectures cover a lot of extraneous material which will not be useful for you. Also Shapiro is very boring. This should be taught VERY differently.
Don't take it.
This class offers a good way of fulfilling a gen Ed requirement. The workload isn't onerous, and lectures often include demonstrations.
The course is an easy way to fulfill the SPU gen ed requirement. Irwin is also a very interesting and kind man who is passionate about education. The pace is a bit slow, but that means the workload is manageable.
It was a good class especially for freshmen who are interested in studying science but are unsure of which branch they want to study. It's also a great opportunity for upperclassmen not studying sciences to learn from such an amazing scientist.
Boring, homework is easy, tests are graded very harshly
Stay engaged with the course and you should do relatively well. Otherwise, you won't enjoy cramming for the exams (there's quite a bit of material covered). The class is okay, but Irwin tries to engage his students and he makes a genuine effort to learn everyone's name.
Not as much of a gem as it seems
The course is a relatively simple, if unfulfilling, way to satisfy the SPU gen ed.
This class was somewhat interesting. Definitely an easy A if you take the (really low amount of) work even remotely serious. However, it was so easy and so 100% review of high school science that I felt like I wasted one of my courses here. However, if you are looking for an easy SPU gen ed or an easy A, this is your course!
It is very easy until the tests but then you won't do well overall because the tests were unfair.
This course is pretty exciting, and Irwin's fantastic. He always has some sort of demonstration to liven up class meetings.
The homework is graded kinda harshly and the exams are graded very very brutally. I thought I received an A on my midterm but ended up receiving a C on it.
Definitely be comfortable with math (only up to trig) and don't be afraid to attend office hours for questions. Final was shockingly hard but midterm was very easy.
Take this class!!! Irwin is amazing, and not only is he the sweetest guy, he also was a part of the history he's teaching. It's crazy. He's so cool. But the subject matter is super interesting, a great mix of science and history of science, stories and narratives. It teaches you a lot about how science is done, but in the lab and out of it. The assignments are super easy, as well as the midterm/exam. Study your stuff, but it's really very not bad. A great great way to fulfill SPU or SLS.
two exams, a final project, weekly problem sets, and three labs.  A bit more than you'd expect.
This class is a very manageable and moderately interesting SPU. The classwork commitment is manageable, the exams were fair, and the class does not eat up too much time. Definitely a decent class to satisfy SPU.
Take this course if you're writing a thesis and need your SLS or SPU requirement. It's manageable.
This class is a pretty easy way to get you SPU requirement done, but it's hard to get too interested in any of the material because the course covers a lot of ground with not much depth. Also, be prepared for a lot of astronomy-based topics.
This is a great class! Irwin is a very good lecturer, and the material is very interesting. The material is not difficult, but I learned a lot about the unity of science and about the importance of asking questions.
never experienced "unity of science" -- really interesting approach and would highly recommend
It's a great course if you have a decent grasp on the scientific concepts/math and can spend more time thinking more broadly.
Wow, Irwin has put together a life changing course. As a senior who has done research at points at Harvard, I was blown away by the wisdom that can be mined from the course material. In many ways I wish I had taken this in Freshman or Sophomore year. The class is not so about dinosaurs or the big bang, as much as it is about the process of inquiry, questioning if theories or models that describe nature really describe or predict them well, and challenges you to wonder how it can be extended. There was a part of every p-set that asked for you to make up 2 novel questions related to the lecture topics that week. That was definitely the part of the homework that made me stretch the most intellectually. How do you ask an interesting scientific question - I did these diligently each week and found that I had strengthened this "muscle" of being a better question asker and maybe even a more creative scientist. Irwin is a super awesome professor, and really cares about his students. When I turned in my final exam today, he remembered my name and asked me about my summer/post grad plans (believe me, he won't get your name wrong more than once!). Pretty inspiring guy who was even there for some of these discoveries the class talks about. I definitely tried to take advantage of the 10 mins before class and after class to chat more with him.The course is still a bit rough around the edges, but I think the benefits far outweigh the downsides as an SPU Gen Ed.
If you intend to make the most of lectures with Professor Shapiro (and you absolutely should, as he is a living legend with a heart for students and the kindest demeanor of any faculty member you could hope to meet at Harvard), this course may be worth your while. However, if Anya is not your TF, heaven help you. The other course staff seem to be hired at random, and half of them openly admit to possessing a minimal understanding of the concepts in question. Even when they do understand, they do not seem willing or able to teach the concepts, preferring to mark up the chalkboard with formulas and diagrams that baffle students, most of whom came into this class believing it to be 'introductory'. Finally, effort in the course appears to have a minimal impact on the success of the student in question. Having attended all lectures and section meetings, as well as office hours, I'll be lucky to leave this class with an A-. That's more than a bit aggravating.
Irwin is phenominal. He is funny and engaging. He is brilliant! I feel like with his intelligence and impact in science it would be very easy to be standoffish, but he takes the time to engage with each student on a personal level.
The Unity of Science does a great job making SPU requirement interesting and fun.
This class was occasionally interesting and Irwin is great guy, but this stimulation was not consistent enough to justify the work. There are likely to be better SPUs out there. However, if you're interested in history, this could be a decent choice.
This course was a complete waste of time and I sorely regretted entering it. There are so many great general education courses around but this is not one of them. The average person in this course is an upperclassmen who is taking this course while writing their thesis and has no interest/investment in the course. That works fine for those who (A) already have a background in the material and don't really care or (b) enjoy memorizing disconnected scientific material. But, if you are not of those to groups and you nevertheless aspire to do well in the course and make the most out of this class you will have to memorize a ton. Some examples of things you will memorize if you take the study guide seriously are: the three modes of fossilization, to the history of dinosaur discovery, to the details of the experiments on the atom, to the main players in evolutionary theory. I wouldn't have minded in high school but here at Harvard I feel like there are so many better courses that push you intellectually and contribute to your critical thinking skills.  This was not one of them!
Irwin is a fantastic professor!  He will make this class very interesting and enjoyable for you.  The lectures are filled with stories and are not boring to sit through.  The HW psets (10 of them total) were really easy never taking more than 1-2 hours to complete).  The exams were also easy.  This is absolutely the BEST way to fulfill SLS and a good way to fill SPU.  Other SLS classes require tons of work and impossible hard science.  Humanities concentrators will not do better than this class to fill SLS!  Anya and Idan are both great TFs and awesome people as well!  Take SPU 22; it won't disappoint!
Fun class that is not super strenuous.  Irwin rocks - he is definitely the best part of this class.
This class was an extremely interesting survey of many different parts of science. It was quite fun!
Lecture: can be boring, but they monitor attendance, and it gives you a good understandingExams: really straightforward for the most part if you study the study guide really well that you are provided withHomework: the scientific question questions are meant to be very straightforward, but they are so annoying and never clear what they're looking for, we shouldn't have homework the weeks we also have labs or exams but we do, and some of the reading assignments for the homeworks are so tediousProject: very undefined, but could be fun if you're into it
I would recommend this class as a good class to fulfill your SPU. The teaching staff really wants to help you -- extra office hours, helpful by email, etc. You can definitely tell. If you are interested in anything earth-related, then you'll love this. Irwin does great demonstrations in class but the rest of the lecture can get sort of dry. Homework assignments are fair, and the exams are not tricky.
