I recommend this class as an interesting, interdisciplinary look at a particularly interesting time in national history, from both a scientific and an artistic perspective.  However, this interdisciplinary range is sometimes so broad as to encompass more material than can really be covered in depth in a single class.  This class turns into more of a survey of a wide variety of scientific, historical, and philosophical concepts, addressing few of them thoroughly enough to really be understood.
Professor Galison is cool but Einstein is even cooler.
You'll get tired of hearing about the ether after a while. But if you're interested in some of the political, ideological, and physics movements of the early 20th century, as well as the atomic bomb, it's a good class.
This is a difficult course. Bottom line. There is too much reading, the lectures move too quickly, section breaks everything down, but it's a lot to handle. If you are a humanities person take this with EXTREME reservations. They say continuously that "we're about to get to the history party" but it never really does--it's history insofar as you understand quantum physics, for example. Don't come in thinking this is a hist. of sci course because it's more heavy on the physics.
By far one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Lots of fascinating material and real attention to teaching it well.
Great course. Really fun, interesting material. Great way to knock out a Gen Ed. Galison is a wonderful lecturer. Problem sets are relatively painless. Lots of freedom to do what you want with the final paper. People always talk about how great it is to attack a topic from an interdisciplinary angle. This course actually does that.
It's a great way to learn some of the most important ideas and discoveries in 20th-century physics. Accessible to students with a limited background in math/science, less so to those with a limited background in history.
There's a lot of reading to be done in this course but it's well worth it. Professor Galison is an amazing professor and my biggest regret is not taking better advantage of him as a resource.
This is a fun gen. ed. if you can get yourself excited about the impact of science in the twentieth century.  There were many times that I was excited about what we were learning.
This class was definitely interesting and informative, but was also frustrating at times with respect to the amount of technicalities in physics that we were supposed to memorize. However, the content besides this aspect is extremely interesting.
Some work but managable.
The homework assignments are not as difficult as the problem sets. There is tons of reading and a lot of material to go over but section is really helpful
This is not a fantastic course. It's subject matter is interesting, but it really fails to fulfill its potential. The lectures are particularly disappointing. However, if you need a course that meets the Science of the Physical Universe requirement, it may be the best one available. I hope it's not, but it wouldn't shock me.
There are two distinct groups of people who take this class: humanities majors wanting to satisfy an SPU requirement and science majors wanting to satisfy a Culture and Belief requirement.  Those in either group will find some material interesting and some material boring.  Overall, though, it's a nice and relaxed class.
you need to know a lot more physics than is implied
You have both a midterm, essay, four psets, and a final, but you will learn an interesting way of thinking about science.
Einstein Revolution is an extremely interesting class that ties together the highlights of science, history and the arts in a comprehensible and manageable way.
This course is not nearly as good as it should have been.  There's a lot of potential, and maybe in the future it'll be better, but I was underwhelmed after having come into the class pretty excited.
This course is quite a bit of reading but extremely fun!
The material is really interesting, but lectures are diluted with a lot of seemingly irrelevant material, and not organized in a particularly focused manner.
This course takes on a lot of interesting subjects but doesn't do any of them (save relativity) total justice.  A great survey of what's out there, but look for depth and a bit more coherence elsewhere--there's a little too much going on here for the course's own good!
This class is really misleading.  It's titled SPU 17, but it is not a physics class at all.  It is really a history class.  Expect to do more reading than physics.  On the exams, only 20% of the points are actually for physics problems.  The rest is essays.
If you have any interest in Einstein or quantum theory this is a great class. Professor Galison gets really excited about the subject matter which makes lecture interesting. If you like interdisciplinary work, this class is good for you. if you're not a math/science major, the psets may be a bit of a challenge at times.
Interesting class, but one of the toughest I have taken so far.
This class makes Einstein's main theories very accessible and easy to understand, and the historical background for each of his theories and discoveries is fascinating and helps to contextualize them. Expect to work very hard on the problem sets because it is hard to know how much detail is required for the essay-like responses. Also, there is a larger reading load than most cores
This course, in many ways, contributes well and interestingly to an understanding of twentieth-century thought, the confluence of different academic fields, and the history of science.  In this respect, I would strongly recommend enrolling.  But if you're looking for an easy Gen-Ed, this is not the course for you, as this course is quite demanding, with two 90 minute lectures and a 90-minute section per week, problem sets, a final paper, as well as a midterm and final.
This class is so ridiculously easy that even a mudkip can do it.  You can just sit there and troll for lulz.  In fact, this class could have been on the Kentucky state science syllabus.
This has a whole lot of reading and be prepared to enjoy all of it.  The section on the atomic bomb project is at the end and is quite entertaining, but measuring the extent of Einstein's direct influence on society was a much more fascinating and involved project that called forth my ability to analyze history, society, and philosophy.  There were four  problem sets, but this is not a real SPU class (though I am a humanities major).  Take it for its other excellent qualities.
There ARE psets, and they're not necessarily easy. Be sure to come into the class with an interest in Einstein ... you'll need to bring your own passion to the course to stay interested, especially given the amount of reading you're expected to accomplish.
Science cores are pretty bad, but this one tries really hard, has lots of interesting and important material, and is doable if you put in the effort. It's far from perfect, but it's definitely one of the best of its lot.
The material is interesting, easy, and intellectually satisfying if one wishes to consider it in depth.  A great way to fulfill the Culture & Belief requirement for concentrators in the physical sciences.
A great way to fulfill the SPU requirement if you're interested more in the humanities and social sciences. You really walk away with a sense of Einstein's significance.
Hindsight is always 20-20. Be warned: taking this class was a MISTAKE! Although the material was actually somewhat interesting, the way it was presented was downright awful and destroyed all the good in this class. Do NOT take this class for the SPU requirement -- take one with real science and more math, you're much better at it than you think. TRUST ME ON THIS!
Takes a lot of time, though it's not that hard. Some dense readings, though overall taking this class has be rewarding. Galison is an interesting fellow. He loves what he does and is really earnest. They do clicker things during lecture, which I believe counts towards lecture participation. 4 psets (both short answers and physics), 1 midterm, 1 8-10 page research paper, and 1 final.
This course is exceptionally fascinating, has a very well rounded amount of course work -as in, knowledge to gain, not "grunt work". Highly recommended for the SPU requirement. Also, it is so great to learn about culture through a different "side" or "scope" than we are used to (history of science) -the topic covers many philosophical and especially political and ethical questions. It is a great angle to consider philosophy -I would say more holistically/thematically, than just reading a dry text by Kant or someone.
This class FEELS like a GEN-ED (which means you wish you didn't take it).  It is just like other gen-eds that have readings and papers and essay/ID midterms and finals except that they throw in a few "physics"  "problem sets" which don't really involve much physics and are more like essay sets with some other stuff thrown in.  If you are humanities person taking this for SPU its good because it requires minimal science and is basically just like every other humanities gen-ed with too much reading and then lots of essays/IDs that you are used to.  If you are a science person taking it for Culture and Belief it is probably just as bad as all of your other options except that there might be some science there somewhere.  Don't expect to cruise through if you know science and physics.  There is too much reading and section is torturous like other gen-eds.  Lecture was not used effectively and there was tons of repetition of unclear things that remained unclear no matter how many times it was repeated.  The subject material is interesting, so take the class only if you are interested in it.  It is not an easy class or one that is particularly enjoyable so if you aren't interested you are better off choosing something else.  I wish I had dropped this class when I had a chance.  DONT TAKE THIS AS AN ELECTIVE!!!
TAKE THIS COURSE. It's one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Really interesting, great professor and TFs.
For non-science/math students, it's a lot harder than I initially thought. There's also a surprising amount of reading, so be prepared for that
If you want to learn about the culture of the first half of the twentieth century and get a science core out of the way, this is a perfect class. It was interesting, but I was never stressed about it.
From a physics major: This class really is a history of science class. It's a good way to get your Culture and Belief if you want an easy class. However, there is lots of reading. While you can get away without doing it, you will have a much more positive experience if you actually read everything. Peter Gallison's lectures are pretty scattered and unstructured and perhaps the best way to understand the themes of the course is through the readings.
this experience and the things I learned in the class did not justify, in my opinion, the amount of time and energy put into the class.
Really interesting class. The reading heavy the course could be better organized but overall its a great class. I highly recommend it to anyone that is interested in the material.
Be careful, this class is not specifically about Einstein. It is about every bit of science and history that occurred in Einstein's time that can possibly be related back to Einstein somehow. Lecture and section can get to be boring, since I was only interested in things directly relating to Einstein, and section is a monotonous 90 minutes going over the ton of reading you were assigned to do. That said, the part of the course discussing relativity was the most intriguing and best part.
A great course for those Humanities concentrators looking to fill a Science A, and an equally viable option for those Science concentrators looking to complete their "Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding" requirement.
great gen ed class.  interesting.
Very difficult, tons of work. Kinda interesting.
It's an easy way to get through culture and belief, but it's definitely a culture and belief class, not SPU.
Be ready to ask for help on physics questions if you're uncomfortable with them, but other than that really fun course--great combination of history and science!
This is an interesting course and Professor Galison is a good lecturer, but the physics is pretty hard for someone with little background in science. The problem sets can be fairly difficult and the concepts are confusing. However, the primers are very helpful. The part about the bomb is the most interesting, and makes the class worth it.
It is a very interesting class. However, be prepared to do a lot of reading and to not really get a break on any assignments.
You can't just coast through SPU17, but it is worth the time you spend on the readings and attending lecture. The professor is interesting -- tells good stories and has a way with words -- and the topics are good. It's great to look at the development of relativity and nuclear weaponry in a historical context. Throw in some quantum mechanics, and you feel like you're getting a good primer on the "cool stuff" of modern science.
This is a very interesting and fulfilling way to fill the SPU requirement, but this class is not a "gut." You must pay close attention to understand the scientific concepts, because even if they are not particularly mathematical, they can be quite confusing.
Galison is fairly boring in lecture.
Be very wary.
the course is too scattered and has too much reading
Take it if you have even the slightest interest in physics and don't have the background or experience
This course is not particularly difficult but it is incredibly frustrating. Assignments are fairly easy but are needlessly time consuming and poorly communicated. In-class lectures are largely a repetition of the required online lecture videos which are themselves largely drawn (almost word-for-word) from the course readings. The course is also kind of a mess. It is very disorganized and has no real thematic arc (beyond an often thin connection to Einstein) connecting the different sections of the course. There aren't a lot of great options for SPU but there have to be some better than this course.
This class is more work than it is worth.
Take this class for your SPU! It's so fascinating, the course materials are great, and it is most definitely the best SPU option as well as being brilliant in its own right. The physics is not that hard, if you just take a bit of time with it.
The material in this course is fascinating. Professor Galison is incredibly knowledgable and super accessible. In general, I'm so happy I took this course and wish I could take it again -- I think there was so much more to explore. The one thing I'd warn future students about is that the class is very poorly organized which was often frustrating. There were a lot of moving parts between lectures, section, lecture videos, readings, quizzes, section assignments, etc. And  lectures, lecture videos, and the readings were often repetitive. Sometimes the attempt to be creative and do different sorts of assignments just resulted in assigning things at the last-minute, which was really unproductive. That said, overall, this class was totally worth it.
This class is interesting and amazing in many ways, but it was a ton of work for a gen ed. The material was fascinating--the cosmology, the atomic bomb debates, understanding the nuances and far-reaching implications of findings about time and the nature of space-time. I learned so much about Einstein, about his physics, and about the history of the physical sciences. It was frustrating to take a Gen Ed with such high expectations, since it was not clear which work was imperative and which was more optional.
If you have interest in cool physics and Einstein, this is the class for you. You learn about everything related to Einstein's work, as well as so many fun topics that stem from it (like Quantum Mechanics, cosmology, nuclear bombs, etc). This is not a class that I would recommend for students who are looking to fulfill their GenEd requirement and nothing else. There is too much work that you have to do (online videos and quizzes and essays) that you cannot really sleepwalk through it. Anyways--why would you want to just float through this class? Peter Galison is truly one of the most impressive professors at Harvard, and it shows. He really makes this class an amazing and incredible experience.
This is not a "flipped classroom" it is a study in a class with no respect for student time. Assignments are given less than 24h before section - the online lectures are an extra 1-2 hours outside of lecture and actual "lectures" are useless because they're an hour to and hour and a half of lecture (not a flipped classroom) and then half an hour of "student presentations" that are completely useless - often just reading outloud the material we were supposed to read for class. Everything is incredibly disorganized and nothing is ever made clear and the use of the canvass site is incredibly poor. The material could be interesting if we ever knew what we were supposed to retain or what the objective of the course was at any stretch. Gallison is clearly a genius - and a very nice guy - but it's actually an incredible farce how disrespectful this class is of student time and how misleading the idea of a flipped classroom was. It needs to figure out its identity - and don't take it until you can get evidence that it has.
The subject matter was interesting, but there was a lot of redundancy in the way the course was structured. A lot of the material covered in the required online lectures was repeated in section then in lecture. I didn't feel that either section or lecture needed to be more than an hour long. There also generally was a lot of work (especially readings).
This class could be great, but they need to fix the online-in person balance.  I often felt that I was being unfairly evaluated, and that my time was being wasted.
I found the material of this class to be fascinating, and I imagine that it would be found similarly fascinating to anyone interested in the history of physics (particularly early 20th century physics). Although listed as an SPU class, I would describe it as a history of science class that happens to be slightly more technical than usual. The teaching quality was quite good, and so I would easily recommend the class if not for the high workload (especially for a Gen Ed - this had a much higher workload than usual for a Gen Ed) and poor clarity of expectations set by the instructors for what students needed to do. Hopefully they will improve on those things for next year, in which case I think the course will be great. But some caution is required.
This class is pretty awful-- disorganized, scattered, too much work for unclear expectations, subpar teaching staff. Take another SPU.
If you put work into this, it is actually fun!
The class itself is an ambitious attempt to cover the scientific history of the twentieth century and the cultural landscape surrounding it. The workload of the class was high for a gen-ed due to the large variety of types of work (online videos and quizzes, mini-essays and peer grading, readings and in-class activities), which hopefully will be reduced in future offerings of the course. With that caveat, I recommend this course to anyone interested in learning about the intersection of history of science and modern physics.
SPU 17 is an outstanding course with a fantastic teaching staff that really tries to place physics and science in a historical context, and show why it matters.
The Einstein Revolution is an interesting class that covers both the physics of the 20th century in relation to Einstein's work but also the scientific culture which developed around and due to Einstein's work. It is a lot of work, but the material is interesting and is really cool once you understand it.
This class is worth taking if you have the time. It really gives you an incredible perspective on a range of issues from history to theoretical physics. I took it senior spring and did not regret it, despite the amount of time required.
This class is easy. It is far easier than any other SPU I've shopped/heard about, but there is a fair amount of work. One thing to note: this class is not so much people in the humanities doing science as it is people in the sciences attempting to do humanities. Keep that in mind all you philosophers and English people who think about taking this course.
The Einstein Revolution sets grand goals for itself but, in its current iteration, does not deliver on all of these. It falls victim to the diversity of its ambitions and its commitment to cutting-edge pedagogy. It teaches so many things in so many fields that one begins to loose sight of the connecting threads.
YOU WILL THINK THIS IS A GOOD GEN ED COURSE. JUST RUN. TRUST MY SUGGESTION. RUN.
About as good as an SPU as you're gonna get if you can't/don't want to, you know, do science.
Rather interesting subject matter, but quite poorly taught. It doesn't help that (presumably because no one does the readings) there are an unreasonable number of short assignments as part of the online work. Despite these, people still don't seem to do the reading, and so section is utterly miserable.
no
This is a great course if you want to learn about physics in the 20th century, or Einstein, or nuclear weapons. It comes from a wide variety of perspectives.The online component is pretty straightforward, and helps a lot for lectures and section.
As long as you can keep yourself organized, this is a great course! Really easy too if you already have a background in physics/quantum mechanics (and still pretty easy even if not). The only thing that was a bit tricky was keeping track of all of the different assignments and things going on in the course all at once. There was 2 websites, short weekly quizzes, occasional movie screenings, class, section, online assignments, a final project, in-class skits, and a course pack happening all at once. TF's were really great helping to prioritize everything though! Overall I would definitely recommend.
if you're interested in learning real physics, take this course.
Gallison is a really interesting professor and comes up with a number of creative ways of demonstrating Einstein's influence and impact on the world. The online component of the course takes some getting used to. The final project is very loosely defined and allows for a great deal of creativity. Coming into this course I had absolutely no physics background. Now I feel confident that I possess at least a conversational understanding of some of the most important scientific concepts that explain the universe, such as the theory of relativity or quantum mechanics.
I loved this course. It brought together science, culture, history, philosophy, art, biography, and politics in engaging and innovative ways. The coursework was mostly straightforward and the examinations challenging, but overall worthwhile. If I had taken this course earlier in my college career, I would have ended up concentrating in history of science.
I would be likely to recommend this class to other humanities minded students to fulfill the science of the physical universe requirement. However, the class is currently not very streamlined as it has several moving parts that are poorly coordinated.
The material really is fascinating. The class is a fair bit of work and the concepts are challenging. But overall, very much worth it.
This class was amazing. They made it so that it wasn't very difficult to do well but they still tried to teach everything about the subject and didn't dumb anything down.
This course is terribly organized. You'll get every bit of information three times--in the two online lectures you watch, the 90-minute section, and the two-hour class meeting, in addition to your readings--and it'll probably only be comprehensible one of those times. There's frequent bouncing back and forth between science, history, philosophy, and Einstein's biography, all of which would be interesting on their own and ensure there's something for everyone, but it makes it very hard to keep up. The main class meetings are usually review of online lectures and reading stuff aloud that could be read on your own outside of class. This is a CB with science and an SPU with humanities material, but, even if you refuse to take Hebrew Bible or Science of Cooking, you should still steer clear of this class.
This course is truly a puzzle of topics, readings, quizzes, presentations, and creative assignments.
I took this class, knowing from past Q-scores, that it was flawed and unpopular. But I took it anyway because I thought the material was too fascinating to pass up for someone looking for a science gen-ed. This original assessment ended up being right. The material is great -- learning this physics and the culture/politics/philosophy/art that surrounded Einstein and was influenced him/by him was fascinating. BUT this course was all over the place in terms of its work. It basically assigned the workload of TWO gen-eds instead of one. It had a midterm, final, final project -- enough work in and of itself. But it also assigned lecture videos (flipped classroom style) that had quizzes attached to them, and this took SO much time. There was A LOT of reading. And there were reading assignments sometimes as well. Just way too much. It needs to be totally restructured. Way fewer assignments/less weekly work and just less going on generally. I still would recommend this class over a throw-away science gen-ed, because you really learn so much. I low-key loved this class even though I also hated it sometimes, because of the work it assigned and its cavalier/clueless attitude about how much it was assigning.
Don't let the readings intimidate you--this class is so worthwhile because it is interesting, always exciting, and has huge modern applications
Do not take this course. This course is disorganized and makes hugely unnecessary demands on students' time. You'll generally have to do 2-3 hours of online lecture (as well as quizzes), in addition to 200 pages of reading, a 1.5 hour section on top of a 2-hour class session every week. This would all be fine if material wasn't repeated carelessly throughout the different components of the course. But the worst part of the class is Professor Galison's complete and utter arrogance and disrespect of students' time. The point of a "flipped classroom" format is that we watch lectures at home and then we're supposed to engage in class discussions when we meet. Instead, Galison spends 90% of that 2-hour in-class time rambling in a lecture that clearly was not prepared beforehand. Why he calls us into class just to jumble up material we've already learned is truly beyond me. Do not be tricked into thinking they've reformed or that Professor Galison has changed either. Last year's Q guides warned us of the same thing, and I stupidly took the class thinking they had taken the feedback into account. They did not change a single thing and it's doubtful they will the next year. As interesting as the material is, it does not make up for how unorganized and time-sucking the class is. Spend your time elsewhere with a professor who doesn't value his own speaking time above all else.
Given the breadth of the course you're bound to find something worthwhile in it.  The class is unorganized, but you can be proactive and take from it what you want.
This was a wonderful course staffed by passionate TFs and a great professor. No matter what your field of interest in, you'll be sure to learn tons that will fascinate and excite you. That said, the workload for this year was often harrowing. Be aware that because of the flipped classroom structure you may have to do several hours of lecture videos + readings before even getting to class or section. That said, section and my TF, Anya, were absolutely amazing and made the entire course worth it.
Possibly the first Gen Ed Ive taken that truly lives up to all the goals of the Gen Ed program. The class covers physics, history, philosophy, art, politics, and how all these fields interact, all through the lens of Albert Einsteins life and work. Its kind of a quirky class style though, so if youre not a fan of flipped classrooms you might not like it. In past years this class has gotten low Q scores based on the workload, but the volume of readings and videos (while sometimes a bit repetitive in content) is really necessary to get the most out of the course. Also this year was unique in that there were only 20 students as opposed to 60+ in the past, which worked nicely. Id highly recommend taking it if the size stays pretty small.
Definitely take this course even if you are only remotely interested in Einstein. The work id very involved, but VERY fun and you get to do really anything you want for the final project, so there is much freedom for exploration!
Do not take this class. Find another SPU. This class was boring and hard. They said there were no prereqs, but I was always lost when it came to physics or math since I have little background in it. I felt lied to. The assignments were irritating and difficult, and the TFs were not super accessible or interested in helping. There was no real direction to the course and it all felt very arbitrary and disorganized. The flipped classroom structure was dumb and I felt like I was learning the same thing three times, in section, lecture, and on the EdX platform.
This course is poorly designed. It could convey all of its material through lecture, but instead it is a flipped classroom. In reality, this meant that we had do all of the online lectures and psets from the MOOC (online) version of the course and then spend the in-class time on loosely organized discussions or activities that would normally be done in section. Besides the extra time commitment to view the online materials, this course assigned far too much reading - we didn't even address most readings in class or section. One of the most disappointing parts of this course was that Professor Galison was completely inaccessible. He had no office hours - you had to email his secretary and him to set up appointment, and when I did so, I received no response from him or his secretary despite me following up with him in person multiple times. If you want this class to fulfill a science requirement, you will still have math/science psets most weeks. This course is not representative of the courses I've taken in the History of Science Department or for that matter the history courses I've enjoyed. The subject of the class was interesting, but the execution was poor, inhibiting students' learning.
If the course content sounds interesting and you're willing to put in time to do all the random little assignments and readings that this class involves, then it might be worth it for you. However, the class is probably more hassle than some people want from their Gen Ed courses. Prof. Galison's lectures aren't the most engaging; they basically sound like the edX lectures all over again. The TFs this year, Juanita, Devin, and Anna, were great though!
This class is really easy. You can skim through the readings and do just fine. They put way too many assignments, but most of time can be skimmed through. If you're interested in physics and history and want an easy way to do your CB requirement without writing too much this is perfect.
This class is interesting and the amount of information that Professor Galison knows is unreal. There are a lot of readings and the video lectures can be pretty long at times but I think the material you learn is very interesting and worth while. It covers some hard topics ranging from the special relativity to quantum mechanics, but I think that you don't have to be an expert to take the class or succeed in the class.
