Easy and incredibly interesting.  A definite must-take for a non science person who needs to do their SPU.
The material is very interesting, at times complex but assignments are easy
I loved this class. Really interesting material that I had absolutely no previous knowledge of. Professor Kirshner is ridiculous and great, the class has a very fun, relaxed vibe. For the most part the class was very easy, but it was still really rewarding. This was probably my favorite class of the semester, although it has nothing to do with my concentration or previous interests.
This class is fantastic! Take it! I can't think of a better way to fulfill SPU. Prof Kirshner is hilarious and a great lecturer - I loved going to lectures each week. The TFs go out of their way to provide support/resources for problem sets, midterm, final, etc. Observing sessions are really fun - you go to the roof of the Sci Center and use Harvard's telescopes, which is a cool experience. And most importantly, the subject matter is intriguing, and it is certainly worth understanding how the universe works before graduating college.
A painless and enjoyable way to fulfill a core. The physics is very basic, perfect for laypeople, and yet one learns a great deal about the way our universe works. The professor is hilarious and the demonstrations are fun. The TF explains all the groundwork. And yes, the universe is expanding.
This was an ideal Gen Ed.  It didn't require too much time, but I learned SO much about something that I never would have thought to study and that I ended up finding incredibly interesting.  Professor Kirshner is one of my favorites; he is brilliant and incredibly enthusiastic about teaching, and also kind of corny in the most endearing of ways.  TAKE THIS CLASS even if you never thought astrophysics was something you would do.
Fun! You learn a lot without having to worry about grades. Just remember to take the course seriously despite its easiness.
The midterm and final for this class are rather difficult, especially since the homework is graded based on completion. Kirshner does a lot of demos in class, some of which are cool. The material is presented in a rather confusing way. Stay on top of the material and study!
Since the course is not curved and you just need above a 90 percent for some kind of A, make sure you take care of every small item that counts for a small part of your grade. Don't miss any psets, go to the telescope sessions as early in the semester as possible and study for the quizzinos. These small grades add up.
The class is a challenge, but very interesting. It exposed me to topics that are valuable and that I would have never otherwise gotten in my Harvard career. If you keep up with the work and use the TFs it should not be a problem. And Kirshner's really entertaining.
Interesting material, not mathematically rigorous
This class was extremely interesting. The professor is funny, engaging, and a real leader in his field which makes it that much cooler he teaches a core class.  The TFs were all great as well.  The work is easy, and actually teaches you.
Easy, fun class!
There comes a time in the life of every Harvard man (or, I suppose, woman), in which he (or she) learns that he (or she) will have to take a science A course. This will fill said student with dread. But lo! Look what light through yonder window breaks! It is the Science of the Physical Universe 19, and it is your savior. Yes, science friends may scoff, pointing out that the problem sets require such complex skills as "scientific notation" and "plugging and chugging." But you won't care! Unlike those science friends, you've actually***REDACTED***hand. So begone, ye advocates of the "Einstein Revolution," with your having-to-do-complex-math. Fie, those who would tempt the Life Science Monster. If there's one thing Harvard's about, it's knowing how to go with your gut. Or taking one, as the case may be.
It's a sold core/gen ed. Lectures are kind of useless, though. Section is much more enjoyable and informative.
Kirshner is great! Material is interesting.  You can get away with completely slacking in this class, but the material is interesting if you actually pay attention. I like that Kirshner tried to make every lecture interesting by having some sort of demonstration.
you learn about a really interesting topic at a level that is appropriate for non-science concentrators. Do it if you are remotely interested in the subject and need to fulfill the GE requirement
The course was incredibly interesting - the lectures were engaging and the material was great.
Professor Kirchner's incredible humor and enthusiasm for the class was unmatched by any professor I have encounter at Harvard. His lectures made high level astrophysics accessible to anyone and he incorporated bits of relevant current events and economics that made this class all the more interesting and applicable to the world in general. I LOVED this class!!
prepare well for exams
This class has a lot of interesting concepts, and you will be surprised at how much knowledge about the universe and physics you will have learned by the end of the course. However, make sure to keep up with the lectures and psets and go to sections. They are key to keeping up with the course materials, which will dramatically pick up after the midterm.
Learn a ton about life in general, changed my general perspective on what things around us are.
This is an awesome class.  It is quite easy and super interesting.  Make sure to attend lectures, since they are fun.
This was my absolute favorite class of the term.  Professor Kirshner is absolutely incredible, and his demonstrations made for some of my favorite classes of the term.  His sense of humor and easy familiarity with the subject matter make astrophysics seem much less daunting than I had previously thought.  If you are not a science person and need to fulfill you SPU Gen Ed, then THIS IS THE CLASS for you.
If you have any doubts, JUST SHOP THIS CLASS!  I walked into the classroom on accident during shopping week and loved it!  So glad I took this, it's an amazing class.
This course is fun and interesting to take.  If you have ever had an interest in the cosmos, then this class will help to fuel your interest.
You learn some pretty amazing stuff.
its an easy science core but im a bit concerned that my grade is going to be uncurved and not as good as i would want. if you put in full effort, no reason you shouldnt get an a or a-. it is helpfult o go to lecture an kirshner is a really interesting. i woudl hoep for better lecture notes that highlighted the info we should know.
take it if you're even remotely interested in astronomy and/or astrophysics.
This class is ideal for students in the social sciences or humanities looking to take an interesting astronomy course without having to worry about rigorous problem sets.
If you need to fulfill an SPU gen-ed, definitely consider taking this course. As long as you keep up with the material (you don't even have to do 100% of the readings, just try to focus in lecture and review the conepts at some point) you'll be fine
very exciting course with a great lecturer. Material is very engaging.
Take it, if you need the gen ed requirement, it is awesome!
Keep up with the material and you'll be fine.
It's easy, but that can lead to not studying and then bad test grades. so remember to keep up on the work
Fun class if you like science. Bob is a fantastic lecturer
I took 15a before, but I still took this course for its astronomy component. The physics part is very easy for me, so I get to enjoy the "real substance" of the course. And I have to say, it is mind-blowing to know more about the greater world beyond where we live in, and to understand better the extreme phenomenon in our universe. The observing sessions, though required, are a refreshing break from studying. I would have felt really regretful if I had graduated from Harvard not using the telescope at all. Now thanks to this course I would constantly browse through wikipedia about astronomical concepts I am interested in. That being said, the homework is a little bit "eccentric" sometimes and asks you about trivial, non-important questions
This class can be harder than many give it credit to be.
The class overall is interesting and is not too much of a workload, but make sure you understand the readings and pay attention.  But anyone who loves science should do great.
Don't listen to all these people saying it's the easiest class ever. It isn't, especially if you are not at all a science person. That said, it's a very manageable class if you put the necessary time in, and the subject matter is fascinating. Probably one of the best ways to fulfill this GenEd requirement.
Interesting course that makes astrophysics seem very accessible.
If you have a good background with physics then you would enjoy this, but if you are hoping to enjoy a fun simple general education science of the physical universe course, then this is not what I would recommend.
If you get Paul, this course is made a lot more understandable.
If you're not a very strong mathematician or scientist, be cautious. However, the material we learned was really interesting and was presented in an equally fun and interesting way. I'd say it is completely worth the hard work...most things are!
Make sure to really pay attention to the factual aspects of the class and from readings.
Very interesting material and an engaged professor.
Professor Kirshner pretends that this will be a very simple course. The readings are not enjoyable and the lectures are not very informative. The professor also has a huge ego, which becomes annoying. Section was easily the best part of the course. If you like astronomy, take this course. If you not, there are definitely better science cores.
It's a good way to satisfy your Science A core. The problem sets are easy each week. The exams are also not that hard. Painless.
keep up with the concepts.
It is a relatively painless and informative way to fulfill a Gen Ed. I actually learned some interesting stuff in this course. Make sure you study stuff beyond formulas for the tests as the more difficult questions actually ask you to give specific, factual answers that don't just rely on doing math with formulas, especially for the first midterm.
A tolerable core... pretty easy. Weekly homework assignments are sort of tedious, but you don't have to go to lectures. Could be worse.
This course is interesting, and the lectures are lively and entertaining, but the information is not presented as effectively as it could be.  It is sometimes hard to glean the main points from the lectures and readings, and it is also hard to establish continuity between things learned early in the course and the bigger/whole universe ideas.  It is a very easy way to fulfill an SPU gen-ed if you're not a math/science person.  But you should really only take it if you're interested in astronomy and it doesn't freak you out to think about an infinitely expanding universe, the death of the Sun, and the end of the universe.
This is a nice, pretty painless SPU gen-ed with really fun demonstrations, your classic mad-scientist type of professor (who's also actually pretty famous and sometimes quite funny), and kind of time-consuming but not difficult problem sets that were graded on completion, not accuracy.  I think it's probably a good way to get the SPU requirement out of the way, but it was a little frustrating as a science person, because the class was run under the assumption that no one who would take it is.
my roommate recommended this course to me because it "changed her life." i thought a lot of what we did was very cool, but it was a lot more math than i expected. the parts that weren't math were great. while i recognize that, as professor kirshner said, math is the language of science, i found a lot of it difficult.
Kirshner messes around a lot, but if you get a good TF (you probably will) then you'll learn what you need to know.  Kirshner is funny and overall the course is really interesting and easy.
More about telescopes than you might expect. Don't leave the p-sets for the last minute because you might find out you need a textbook you don't have with you. Lecture slides don't necessarily contain all the required information. Keeping notes will help create the cheat-sheets for the exams.
This class is fun but difficult
This class in AMAZING.  The homework is only graded based on participation, the tests are fairly easy, even if you are not a science person, Bob Kirshner is a fantastic lecturer and this is the best class ever.
This course theoretically covers interesting material.  But, because they treat you like you have never seen a calculator before, you don't get a lot from it.  That being said, it's quite easy and brings up some cool ideas in a very easy to understand way.
This is the perfect course to take to fulfill the SPU requirement or as an elective. It's incredibly interesting, but really easy and fun too.
If you are looking for a class with really serious lectures and with a really serious, earnest professor, this class is not for you! If, however, you are looking for a class that conveys a LOT of information without taking itself too seriously, and which includes some fun demonstrations and a healthy dose of humor from the professor, you'd probably really enjoy this class. The section component and the problem set assignments allow you to gauge if you're on track and are learning what you should. I learned a great deal from this course, so I'm definitely not saying it's a joke of a course, I'm just saying it's probably more chill than your typical Science A.
Kirshner is like Bill Nye - he's really entertaining, and this course teaches worthwhile stuff while not being ridiculously demanding like a lot of cores/gen-eds can be.
Take this class.  Professor Kirshner will literally change the way you see the universe.
Make sure to review lecture slides assiduously.
I would definitely recommend this course as a general education course for SPU since the professor is so engaging, funny, and knowledgeable. Do not underestimate the midterm because it is more difficult than expected. Use the TFs as resources!
This is a very easy class and a painless way to get a Gen Ed requirement out of the way. It also does give a new appreciation for astronomy, the night sky, and how weird our universe really is.
Professor Kirshner is a very entertaining lecturer, and the fact that he had a hand in discovering a lot of the material he discusses makes this class worth taking.
This course is not as easy as I'd anticipated! The readings are enjoyable, but actually take quite a bit of time.  I think they were well worth it, and I learned a lot in this class, but it certainly was not what I had anticipated in terms of difficulty.
Kirshner is hilarious. You will probably learn something taking this course but nothing is more incredible than watching Kirshner flying a rocket car into the next classroom and then doing the whole "wheel rolling out/crutches" scene. Do not think you can do no work and get an A. You can do little work and do well but you should do the homework and should at least watch the lectures online.
Probably the best SPU out there, though I think the whole science gen-ed thing is a bit silly.
Lectures are not too interesting, but the material itself is really fascinating! Definitely go to section; you learn a lot there.
Excellent course if you're looking for a relatively painless GenEd.  You don't really have to pay attention in the lectures to do well, but I would recommend listening because they are VERY INTERESTING!!!
It's definitely a good SPU class to fill the requirement, but it seems deceptively easy--it does require a good amount of time if you want to do above average. That said, you do learn a lot of conceptually interesting stuff and I can't really complain.
it's easy but not as easy as one would think - the psets take time and if you're not used to science psets it can be hard
This is a good SPU to take if you're looking for a pretty straight-forward, entertaining class. The workload is not bad at all, Kirshner's lectures are always fun (with GREAT demonstrations!)
If you are looking for an easy and interesting gen ed, don't take this class!!! There are more than twice as many psets as other SPUs, the psets are pretty difficult, there's a ton of reading, lectures are obtuse.. I could go on. Professor Kirshner is nice but crazy, full of himself (did you know that he advised last year's nobel prize winners??!) and hard to follow. Not to mention he tells the same jokes and phrases over and over ("yes, they replied with one voice!"). I learned a couple cool things over the course of the semester, but it wasn't worth it.
Ideal SPU for humanities-oriented students. You actually learn interesting things about the physical universe and aren't asked to do difficult math. It gives you a very good idea--as far as I can tell--of the trajectory cosmology has taken and where it is headed. Go to all the lectures: Kirshner is not worth missing. You can get a lot out the class if you just pay attention and not blow it off as just another Gen Ed requirement.
I enjoyed learning basic elements of astronomy, but the course was not as easy as I was told.  There is a lot of material to digest, and I didn't get very much of it from lecture or section.
Great professor and staff. All very nice and passionate about topic. Not a very time consuming or difficult course, but definitely VERy interesting material. I'm super glad I took this course and will certainly further explore this topic in my free time.
learn about everything in the universe in an easy way - very interesting
This is a very nice way to take care of the SPU requirement, with no labs, fun lectures and challenging but fair exams.
This is a great SPU Gen Ed. You learn a lot about the Universe from one of the leading researchers in the field, who is also a great teacher. You'll leave the course with the ability to have a dinner conversation about General Relativity and atomic physics.
If you don't know physics it's not as easy as they say it will be.
This course requires much more work to succeed in than it sounds like it will. Though it's not uninteresting, it is also not the easy Gen Ed it seems like it might be. You'll need to either watch or attend lectures to do well-- the books won't really help you.
This is a great way to fulfill your SPU gened. The assignments aren't bad, but make sure to study concepts for the midterm/final. Overall, a great class!
Although the subject is interesting, I would not recommend this class unless you can really dedicate time to it. This is not a nice, fun, easy astronomy class. Professor Kirshner is great, but the readings, psets, lectures, and sections become overwhelming. The homeworks do not prepare you for the exams, and all of the reading is too much to do for this class. But take it if you're interested, just make sure you're willing to do the work. Lectures are crucial. You get so much more out of going to lecture than watching the videotaped lectures. Sections are also very helpful and good. He says he doesn't curve, and that is 100% true. This class is not curved!
It's not THAT easy. It's important to keep up with the homework and just put in your best effort in attending lectures and doing the readings in order to do well.
This class is very fun and interesting.
Absolutely fascinating material - especially for those who've always been curious about the world outside of this world.  Gives perspectives on things.  Go to all sections.  Can't recommend the same for lectures.
Lecture is horrible. Section is somewhat helpful. Pretty easy, but definitely not a guaranteed A.
It's a very interesting course and Professor Kirshner is a very engaging lecturer, but it's not as easy as you might expect it to be!
Fun, exciting course. Lectures are never boring. Do the reading though, all of it.
Good gen ed.  Professor gets scatterbrained near the end of the course.  The TF's were fantastic and the best source of information for the class.
a very enjoyable introduction to astronomy
Very interesting material from a great professor.  More memorization and less math than SPU's typically are, however.
It's a painless way to fulfill your SPU Gen Ed requirement.  It's interesting and you'll understand how we know what we know about the universe by the end of the course.
This is a very easy Gen Ed. It won't take up much of your time, the tests aren't challenging, and the course material is very interesting. Go to lecture and pay attention and you won't even need to study for exams. The lectures are interesting too; Professor Kirshner is very funny in his own way.
Decent SPU. Minimal math, engaging and entertaining lectures, great section.
Don't be fooled by the exponent lessons... this course will actually involve math (that is probably relatively easy if you pay attention, but will you?) TFs vary a LOT. Switch at the beginning if you get a bad one. Kirshner is bizarre, in a good way.
Dont take this. Everyone wants an easy class to balance a tough schedule but unless you know this stuff already dont take SPU19 (the question of whether you should take a class where you know everything is a separate argument -  I would urge you not do it). If you are genuinely interested in learning about the subjects in this course, dont take the class  it will only confuse you more and leave you frustrated. There is no incentive to learn some really fascinating stuff and you are just given a random jumble of information. If you care about learning the content then just read the Wikipedia pages on all of this stuff and dont put yourself through the struggle of battling with this dreadful attempt at teaching. If you ignore my advice and decide to take this, the only you will redeem the experience is by talking to the TFs who are great  go to their office hours. Otherwise, this class is completely pointless. The worst I have ever taken, anywhere, in my life.
Class is not necessarily an easy A. You need to really like astronomy or be able to pick it up quickly to do well. Kirshner is a great lecturer though, and really fun.
It's a good class where you learn a lot of cool things. That said, I felt like it was a bit too much work for an elective. Take it if you need an interesting course to fulfill the SPU requirement, but don't take it "for fun" unless you're really on top of your work and can devote a  moderate amount of time to this course (i.e. don't think of it as an easy elective or easy 5th course, because it's not).
This is a fun way to fulfill the SPU requirement, and you can learn a lot if you actually go to lectures.
This class teaches you a lot of interesting things about the universe, without going into too many details you don't care about.
This class is a fantastic introduction to everything you ever wanted to know about the universe.  The material is really interesting and the homework isn't too bad.  Professor Kirshner is an entertaining lecturer and he always does a crazy and awesome experiment/demonstration at the end of class--for example, like driving a fire extinguisher propelled go cart across the front of the room.  If you ever wanted to know more about the universe, this is a fantastic way to satisfy that curiosity.  I took it without any prior experience in astronomy/astrophysics and found it to actually be pretty easy.  If you do take it, though, go to lecture.  He posts the lecture notes online but you won't get nearly as much out of them than if you go to lecture.  You'll also miss the awesome demonstrations in class, which are well worth attending by themselves.  This is a fantastic way to fulfill the SPU GenEd.
So long as you keep up with the work and do all the assignments, SPU-19 is a great way to learn about the universe from a really interesting and engaging professor while also not breaking your back with the courseload. Take it!
You can't just use the math, you actually need to learn things about stars
It's pretty hard for a Core, as a social sciences student who has taken AP Physics I thought I wouldn't have to work that hard, but I actually did.
I never thought I would enjoy a physics or science class for that matter but that was certainly not the case with SPU 19! The lectures are engaging, witty, and well presented which made this course very enjoyable!
Good science GenEd or elective, especially for those familiar with physics and are interested in astrophysics.
I really liked this class. The TFs are great, and Prof. Kirshner is really cool and funny (and a little crazy, but in a good way). The course load is quite light, but never think of this class as a "joke" class. You will regret it. If you are interested in astrophysics and are willing to put in some good effort, you will find this class enjoyable.
The midterms and final were harder than I expected. I'd recommend trying to get the general concepts down before making your cheat sheet to study for it. But as an SPU I'd definitely recommend this, especially because Kirshner is so hilarious and great as a lecturer.
Be diligent about your course work. Be sure to keep up with the lectures and the material.
This was an amazing course and professor Kirshner is an amazing and very entertaining lecturer. Every class we had fun demonstrations. The course is an easy step into astronomy and the homework doesn't take too much time. The best are the two observing sessions with the telescope.
I recommend this class to humanities concentrators looking for a good science gen ed. The class made me miss complex physics and chemistry, but it was a good course to use to get a requirement out of the way. It's not all that demanding in terms of the workload, the readings are interesting, and Professor Kirshner made me laugh out loud at least once every lecture. The class wasn't as intellectually engaging as some other classes are, but it was still very enjoyable.
Fairly easy gen ed, really interesting subject material at times. Kirshner is a hilarious lecturer.
Not too difficult, very interesting material.
The class functions like "Cool Topics in Astronomy" but without too much of a structure. The P-sets are a bit hard for a Gen-Ed and take a good bit of time (2-3 hours/week). The material isn't too difficult but it isn't presented very straightforwardly, sections can be a great help in this regard.
Unless you know science, this class is brutal
Course cultivates wonder and appreciation for astronomy, but some of the concepts get breezed over in class (i.e. quantum physics stuff) and then asked about during the problem sets/exams, meaning you have to either get help from TFs or the Internet to complete them.
Much harder than last year's Q said it was gonna be. Definitely not a joke.
This class is one of the easiest Geneds I've even taken at Harvard (this was my last gened to take) and while it's extremely easy to get an A (its not curved) it's also extremely annoying since everything is so vague  and Kirshner isn't the greatest at getting the point across succinctly. Would recommend but only because it's that easy.
Good class, just be aware that it is theoretical when it comes to exams, but quantitative on homework and in section, might be misguided and surprised by the midterm.
Great course! Professor Kirshner is zany but it makes lecture that much more entertaining. The homework might be slightly more work than the average GenEd, but if you're at all interested in the material, go for it.
As a Gen Ed, this is pretty painless. Professor Kirshner is clearly a brilliant scientist, but he does not phone in this course. He enlivens his lectures with jokes and fun demonstrations that makes class more enjoyable and helps you remember the material. Both he and the TFs are very approachable. I could always get feedback on a PSET or a question answered whenever I needed it. They want you to succeed, which is a nice feeling in a Gen Ed course. Do I want to be an astronomer no? No, but as a humanities concentrator, I definitely have a bit a more knowledge of the universe and a much greater appreciation for scientists.
I wish I had known this but this is one of the few classes where you don't have to stress and wreck your brain over for the midterm and final exams. That is, if you go to all the lectures and pay decent attention and take decent notes you will be able to do well on the exams. As opposed to someone who misses lectures and then tries to cram in the information from the homeworks and slides.. not efficient or as effective as just taking it chill and enjoying the lectures.
I was really excited about this class because I love space. But I was really disappointed. There is just too much material that you won't get to do any of them. Lecture was pointless and I never went to any of them. The only good thing about this class is that it's super easy and a painless way to fulfill a Gen Ed.
I will present my opinion of this class in three simple points:1) Professor Kirshner is absolutely phenomenal: there IS NOT and CANNOT be another teacher at Harvard whose lectures are more entertaining, and who generates more interest in the course material.2) The goal of GenEd courses is to provide students with a general, working understanding of subjects other than their concentration. It follows that these courses should present their content in the most straightforward, uninvolved ways possible, as not to draw attention away from a student's concentration. This course, unlike many others, achieves this resoundingly: I have gained a fundamental understanding of astrophysics, cosmology, and astronomy, without any serious effort.3) The course material is FREAKING DARK MATTER, BLACK HOLES AND SUPERNOVAE. What could be cooler to learn about?SO, in conclusion, this is course about outer space taught by a mad scientist that takes essentially no significant effort but teaches a LOT. In other words, it's perfect.
Straightforward class. Do the psets, attend lectures, and you should do well. Great demonstrations during lecture!
It's easy to not keep up with the material, but when you fall behind, it's hard to catch up.
Pretty easy and interesting class. Good class to take for SPU if you don't know any science. Lectures are a bit dry.
Is a great class for overall understanding of the universe.
This is a great Gen Ed. Highly recommended. Super easy, and yet I feel like I still learned things!
It's interesting, but you have to do the readings and go to lecture, if not, you'll be lost. Also, it's quite a bit of time (1.5 lectures twice a week plus hour long sections).
It's your bog standard science gen ed for those who don't do science. Lectures are entertaining but cover so little material in an hour and a half you'll stop going. Psets are mostly straightforward with a few tough questions thrown in. Go to/watch the lectures and you'll breeze through the exams.
The workload is low and the material is straightforward and easy. However, the lectures and sections are not the most interesting.
It is a very interesting course with a broad range of topics covered. If you are interested in an overview of the cosmos, at a micro and macro scale, it's great. My only complaint is that the material can be a bit disjoint at times.
Very cool class if you are interested in physics and astronomy.
There is no reason why any sane person would take this class. The grading is unreasonably harsh. There is a strict cutoff at 95% for an A, and 90% for an A-.Yes, it is easy. Yes, the time commitment is low. But, you will find the time you spend on this class ultimately a waste, as you do not learn much at all. There is no point to doing any the readings, and it was a waste of money for me to even rent the 5 books required for this class. The readings are not tested in the exams, and what you need out of them for the homeworks can be easily Googled.Besides the already mentioned problems, you really do not learn that much from this class, besides what "dark matter" and "dark energy" is. The rest I pretty much learned in my 9th grade physics class. If you go to lecture, you will be entertained for the first few, but most of the rest will involve Professor Kirshner talking about how he should have won the Nobel Prize in 2011. There are much better SPU classes that you can take, which give better grades and are actually worth your time.
This class is awful. For one thing, the Professor is incredibly arrogant and clearly does not care much about his students or the class. At least part of every lecture is taken up with him bragging about his accomplishments or the accomplishments of his graduate students. The first time I corresponded with him via email, he was incredibly and unjustifiably rude. Furthermore, his lectures are not really engaging when he is not doing a demonstration. The midterm was unfair in that he did not focus on general concepts, but rather nitty gritty details, especially focusing on the demonstrations when those should have been cursory aspects of the class. The grades on the midterm reflected this. Problem sets were usually fine. The final was fair and straightforward, although solutions to previous years' exams were not posted. To be honest, the teaching fellows were this class's saving grace. They put in the time and effort to explain concepts and prepare students. If it were not for them, this class would have been even worse than it was.
Very fun
Low time commitment (mostly), and interesting material. Prof. Kirshner can be entertaining, for the most part.
If you are a science concentrator or former science concentrator, this class should be fairly easy as it is pretty straightforward and most science geneds are easy even for humanities concentrators (though I wish the opposite were true too....). The lectures are all videotaped, so if you can get a friend to turn in your pset, you can get away with never going to class except for quizzinos (which are scheduled in advance) and watching on 3x speed. The content of the lecture is so sparse and slow that 3x speed is the best way to take in this material anyways. Sometimes I felt like 3x speed was not fast enough....(thank goodness for CS50 2x chrome extension...).Professor Kirshner is nice enough and openly acknowledges that some people don't like the course. He really does try to engage with students and make it fun through experiments and demonstrations at the end, and I feel bad that none of us show up. But this is really the result of a messed up gen ed system where we have to take an SPU gen ed and this is relatively painless.The exams were a bit annoying at times because the midterm asked mostly about the experiments run in class, almost as if he just wanted to test whether people attended class or watched the lectures. The final exam didn't really test an understanding of underlying concepts but just wanted to see if you wrote the correct things on your cheat sheet. It was a bit tedious too. But overall a pretty nice way of just getting this SPU requirement done. The 3 hours a week I spent on this class was just doing the psets (since I didn't go to lecture).
Not bad for an SPU. The psets could be tricky, and the lectures are disorganized/include a lot of irrelevant information, but that ultimately makes the class kind of fun since the professor is very funny.
This is an absolutely fantastic course. Perfectly calibrated to be approachable by any student, even in the case that the student has had almost zero exposure to math/science. Professor Kirshner and the staff put so much effort into the demonstrations during class - lecture is genuinely entertaining. Workload is very doable - it is actually reasonable to do all of the readings, and the assigned material is interesting and engaging. If other people have negative things to say about this class, I really just don't know what to say. This is one of the best classes I took during my four years at Harvard. Take this to fulfill your SPU
All SPUs are rough but this seems like the best one you can take! Kirshner keeps it fresh and not as mundane as some of the other SPU classes I shopped before settling on this one.
Midterm and final are challenging, be sure to focus on concept review
This is an incredible SPU. I recommend it for anyone who is not a science concentrator and is looking for a great, fun, and "energetic" Gen Ed course. The professor is great, the courseload extremely managable, and the lectures are quite fun! Overall recommend with much enthusiasm!!
Honestly, the class is fine. Thats all I have to say. Its not hard, at least. Some people really like it. Some people really dont. Idk.
very interesting lectures.
The course is an easy SPU credit, which is actually quite interesting and pretty fun at times. Prof. Kirshner is really funny and engaging and the assignments are pretty simple. Good class!
Fairly easy. But it's very easy to fall very behind if you don't go to lecture or do the readings.
I would not recommend this course. The reading did not match well with the lectures, and the course assignments were unrealistic based on the depth of the material.
This class was awesome. Learning about dark energy from one of the people who discovered it was one of the best experiences I have had. The homework takes 2 hours a week and the exams were pretty easy.
Show up to lectures - Kirshner is a funny and charming guy, and the demonstrations are really cool.
It's very interesting, but can be challenging.  Exams are hard.
Although Professor Kirschner is funny and tries to make the material easy to understand, often the lectures were all over the place and, for that reason, not very engaging. If it weren't for sections, we would not have gone over most of the homework problems in lecture or at all. Also the midterm is deceptively tricky and a lot of the questions are vague conceptual ones that don't really map on to Kirschner's teaching style during the actual class.
There are most likely better classes that meet the same requirement.
This is a great way to fulfill SPU and to learn some crazy cool things about the Universe. Professor Kirshner is ecclectic, engaging, and so knowledgable, and it was always great how welcoming and encouraging he was of questions. There's a lot of reading but it's not really all essential, and the problem sets are super manageable. Lauren is an amazing TF and section was really helpful in clarifying the actual equations and applications of the broader ideas presented in lecture.
This is probably an okay way to fulfill SPU. I didn't enjoy it very much, but some lectures were quite interesting and the in-class demonstrations were wonderful. I just didn't feel that the syllabus hung together very well. Readings, lectures, and sections felt disconnected from one and other, despite an amazingly dedicated and kind TF. I felt frankly sorry for Prof. Kirshner, because almost no one ever showed up to lecture, preferring to watch the posted videos, or maybe just forgo the experience altogether. It was embarrassing to witness a respected scientist have to teach to such disinterested students--of which I myself was certainly one. But that is the fault of the Gen Ed program, though, not the course.
This is a good option for solving the SPU problem for humanities students. I am Government and Studio Art, and math and science have always been my weak areas, which is why I saved my SPU for senior spring. 1. If you can, TAKE YOUR SPU AND EMR REQUIREMENTS AS EARLY AS POSSIBLE, EVEN AND ESPECIALLY IF YOU DON'T WANT TO.  I would have done a lot better in this course if I had taken it my freshman year when math and physics were still kind of, rather than erased, in my brain. As a super senior it was a struggle, because not only was I learning the course but I was also reviewing and reteaching myself a lot as I went.2. If you are like me and waited til the last minute anyway--this class is do-able. But you have to be on top of it. Weekly psets cannot be saved until the last minute--they usually took me on and off a whole week to complete them because I am so slow at math. There are also a lot of readings which you can and will be expected to know--don't let those pile up.3. MEET WITH PROFESSOR KIRSHNER. HE IS SO SWEET AND HELPFUL AND WANTS YOU TO SUCCEED IN HIS CLASS. 4. TAKE ADVANTAGE OF YOUR TF AND THE COURSE "HELP" FEATURE. My Tf was the bomb and emailed me and met with me many a time.5. If you suspect that this class is going to be rough for you, and you just need to buckle down and get it over with, GET A TUTOR FROM THE BUREAU OF STUDY COUNSEL. Mine was fantastic, and when he was there to explain things to me we whizzed through psets much faster than if I was at home, frustrated because I didn't understand concepts. No shame in getting help.6. Ultimately, this class covers A LOT of material, that is kind of all over the place (chemistry, physics, astronomy, history), but it's interesting. History of science concentrators will probably enjoy it--there is an entire unit on the history of the atomic bomb while we also learn how the uranium bomb works. We talk about people like Edwin Hubble and quite a bit of Harvard's role in astronomy history. You will learn about everything from how electrons behave in an atom to how stars are born and how they die, and all sorts of Interstellar-esque topics such as the relativity of time and gravity. 7. Ultimately, the professor is funny, quirky, very sweet and approachable and wants his students to do a good job in his class. He also is a giant in his field--he won the Wolf Prize while teaching us and was absent one day to go to the Hubble Telescope's 25th birthday party. He is also an entertaining and engaging lecturer who often has fun demonstrations--one of which involved a go-kart and burning things.The TF team was very available, and held review sessions, etc.And lastly, even if you are bad at math and hate science, this class will have enough interesting concepts in it to keep you engaged, but I will be honest: it isn't easy, but you can do it if you work hard and consistently. I recommend it as a Gen-ed requirement.
Unless revamped, this class is stressful with its unnecessarily long psets and hard exams. Would advise another SPU that has more straightforward content.
could have been a great course, but the lack of organization and support for beginners killed it for me. lectures were occasionally stimulating and i could tell that Professor Kirshner wanted us to be excited, but i often felt lost (and that might also be a product of the class being 200+ kids, so if that's not your jam, consider this a warning). section, however, was lovely (thanks to Stephen P - try and get him if you take this class) and salvaged the class some for me.
This is a good class for anyone interested in space, with a lot of fun demonstrations--however, the first half of the course is more about the nitty-gritty of atomic minutiae and not much about the mysteries of space.
It is the opposite of a gem.
The material in SPU 19 is incredibly interesting. If you have an interest in astronomy or physical sciences, this class is a great one. The course has a great balance of breadth in astronomy and focus on cutting edge research/questions that scientists are working on today. The class really opens your mind to the greater universe beyond. For those that think this class is heavy in math/physics, don't worry; the class has very little math and it focuses primarily on intuition and important concepts. Prof. Kirshner is also an effective lecturer who is passionate about the topic and an expert as well. I've really enjoyed it and strongly recommend!
This class would appeal to anyone who is interested in science, physics, or astronomy in any way.
A painless and genuinely interesting way to fill a requirement. An easy course if you attend (or watch) the lectures and do the Archives reading. Don't worry about the other readings unless something from them shows up on a PSET or in lecture.
Great course, not too difficult. Professor is a great lecturer and is always fun to watch his demonstrations.
This course is a good way to fulfill the SPU requirement. If you enjoy math, however, this course is not for you. There are more math heavy SPU courses available.
Not a terrible Gen Ed. The material becomes interesting toward the end of the class, and Professor Kirschner is usually fun to listen to. However, in the first half of the course, it is very difficult to tell what is important, and how different ideas fit together.
Super easy if you know some physics
This class is a really great way to fulfill the SPU requirement if you have any interest in space. Kirshner is hilarious and the psets are totally painless. Very little reading is actually necessary, and the lectures are so interesting you will find yourself actually wanting to go.
Having a slight understanding of physics or calculus is necessary.The understanding must be more theoretical than practical as big ideas are what are being dealt with in this class.
Great class! I was genuinely curious about the material. The problem sets are fairly easy and can be done without doing any of the 'required' readings. The midterm and final are graded more harshly than the homework and require you to have really paid attention in lecture. I wish I hadn't skipped as many lectures as I did, as lectures were always really interesting and the professor quite funny.
DON'T DO IT. SO much extraneous material assigned, most of it is not tested on. Just read Kirshner's book (which of course he will make you buy) if you're interested in the topic. Take your SPU requirements elsewhere!!!!
This course was absolutely terrible. It took a fascinating topic and destroyed it. Lectures were delivered terribly, redundant, and had too many tangents. Not to mention the terrible lecture slides. Homework assignments were frequently vague and had questions not covered by that week's lecture. Oh, and not to mention the completely unnecessary readings assigned by the professor. Exams often made no sense. There are much better SPU options out there, despite how easy the course is.
It's a fairly decent way to fulfill your SPU requirement.
It's an easy course, they want you to succeed, but you do have to actually learn the material and study for the tests/pay attention in lecture. It's not something you can TOTALLY coast through, but it requires very little effort to stay on top of it and is a painless and interesting way to fulfill the SPU requirement. Gem of a SPU.
really cool stuff about blackholes and the universe and gravity and dark energy, etc. If you want to learn about a field that is just recently realizing a lot of huge things carrying universal implications, this is your class to take.
Introduces very interesting astronomy topics in a pretty painless, digestible way. Enjoyable class with not that much time commitment. Make sure to attend lecture to get the most out of this class.
I took this course just to try something new, and because I liked my high school physics class. In my opinion, that wasn't enough to make this class worthwhile.
Take this course if you're looking for a wide-ranging introduction to astronomy (examples of topics covered: why do stars burn, what's a black hole, what's the difference between dark energy and dark matter, and what's Einstein's theory of general relativity all about). Kirshner's lectures are really funny. At first it may seem that they lack substance, but once you ground yourself more in the world of astronomy, you'll come to appreciate the comprehensiveness of the information. Pros: great topic, the textbook is surprisingly readable (still have my copy), the one p-set per work is not taxing.Cons: the later p-sets are overly quantitative in my opinion, some of the additional course materials feel mostly unnecessary, a lot of people skip class.
This is perhaps not the usual, easy Gen Ed that you can pass by doing all the readings the night before the exam. It's a little bit harder than that. But it is absolutely worth it. This has been probably one of my favorite classes at Harvard and I have learned so much about the way the world works an the universe. The topic is fascinating, as are the readings. I found Professor Kirshner's lectures entertaining, but he does go off topic quite a bit. But if you do the readings and go to section you should be fine. Enjoy the show!
Professor Kirshner is an incredibly funny, smart lecturer who puts on real performances in class that still teach you a lot. Readings are great, as is section, but the psets and the midterm are pretty aggravating. The information for psets is only presented the week after the assignment is due, meaning the only way you can complete the pset is by Googling every question and hoping some website includes the random historical tidbit that is being asked about. Same with the mditerm: there will be some questions that were never covered in lecture. On the whole, though, you learn an incredible amount about a very interesting topic from a man who was involved with major astronomical discoveries of the past few decades and who worked with many influential people in the field. If you're a STEM person, just know that it seems like most people in this class are humanities people, and that friends will give you flack for taking a "soft" course. If you're a humanities person, be ready for more algebra than usual. Talk to your TF if you're confused about any of the math!!
Much of the course is dependent on your ability to teach yourself the topics -- it's frighteningly easy to skip classes and fall behind on material, and some TF's (at least, mine) were not particularly good at reinforcing the material or generating interest in it. Moreover, Professor Kirshner's lectures are interspersed with jokes, non-sequiturs and tangents, many of which are charming and funny but become frustratingly common and can often discourage people from paying attention in lecture (or attending in the first place). Nonetheless, even if you only learn the material by ramming for exams, the subject is pretty fascinating -- if you stick with this course, you'll learn all about dark matter, dark energy, black holes and a fair amount of the history of science (one of the "required" readings is a book on the history of the atom bomb, which is now one of my favorites).
Engaging, interesting consideration of high-level scientific and cosmological concepts without getting overly technical
This course covers a lot of interesting material! The professor is very eccentric and tries to keep lectures lively. There is no lab - which is nice!
The most benign SPU you can find - interesting without being taxing
This class is the worst. Going through the lectures at the end of the year I realized that I am genuinely interested in the material, but it is presented in lecture in such an obtuse and muddled way that I lost all interest in the course by week two. Find another SPU.
The problem sets are easy. For the exams, make sure to review the slides, Archives book and understand the big concepts. Lectures are often frustrating because focused more on entertainment than efficient learning. It's sometimes hard to know what information you're supposed to retain, and what you can discard. The topic is fascinating, though.
Not a gem by any means, but if you put the work in, the rewards are immense. By situating us in the cosmos, this class affected me existentially -- I am a better person for having taken it. I assume there will be a lot of negative comments here. Ignore them. A lot of kids did really badly on the midterm, because it was heavily focused on applying big-picture understanding to the in-class demos. If you don't go to class and refuse to think seriously about these HUGE ideas, that's your own fault. Professor Kirschner is dorky and wry in the best way possible. The class is superbly organized, with lots of repetition and a clear narrative. Best SPU you will find!
Honestly, not a bad way to get your SPU requirement done, but that's not saying a lot. There's not that much work but lectures can get brutal. Definitely take it with a friend or two so you can work on psets together.
Great way to fulfill SPU. Totally manageable workload (no lab!), and the subject matter is interesting, occasionally fascinating.
It's a fun class and you will learn a lot about the astrophysical explanations about the origins of the Universe, which are fascinating in their own light. It's also really interesting to see how scientists like Kirshner venerate the scientists that made major contributions to physics like Einstein, Planck, and Zwicky.
Don't just try to get by. Do the readings
Painless way to get your SPU requirement if you've done high school physics. Don't bother going to lecture, Kirshner spends 50% of the time he has at the podium talking about himself and not about the material, you can learn it from his notes or from the textbook/readings in much less time. The material itself is pretty interesting, I learned a lot about astrophysics etc. Section is required, but it's useful for questions you might have from not attending lecture. The TFs are a lot more humble than the professor.
This course covers some interesting topics, but it is really important to stay on top of your readings, homework, lectures, and major concepts of the class. The exams can be tough if you have not been reading, and they do not curve grades. There is a ton of reading material so it's difficult to know what to study unless you are really in touch with what was covered in lecture.
This class is everything you are looking for in a SPU. Super easy, but also you learn a ton, material is amazingly cool, lectures are super engaging and exciting. 10/10 perfect SPU.
This is a very easy Gen Ed course. If you're looking to fill the requirement and nothing more, this is what you're looking for. The course material is actually very interesting, although that's obscured by the kid-gloves approach of the p-sets and tests. I wish there were a better Gen Ed for SPU that wasn't a) a full-on physics 101 lab course or b) this opposite end of the spectrum, but I'm not sure there is. It's not a course that will challenge you to think, but you might still learn a decent bit about the basics of the universe, which I did find worthwhile.
Horrible waste of your life energy.  Do your best to lottery into more reasonable SPUs, AVOID THIS ONE!
Can't think of a better SPU class to take if you don't want to put to much time into a class and get a lot out of it. The material is truly fascinating and Kirshner does a good job of making it entertaining with experiments done in class.
The grading is very strict and it is very difficult to petition for a regrade on the midterm. Also section is very disorganized and you get very little out of it even though attendance is mandatory.
read the textbook
This course is not that easy! Generally it is probably one of the better SPU options, but it is quite a bit of work and is not an easy A at all. Beware! Professor is a great guy who is excited about the material, though.
For social science and humanities concentrators, this is probably the best way to fulfill your SPU requirement. PSETs aren't too difficult and count for a good chunk of your grade. They drop your lowest PSET score. You get to have a sheet of notes on the exams. Sections can be really useful. Overall, pretty painless.
Make sure you prepare well for the midterm. Psets are pretty straightforward outside of maybe a couple of questions out of 10 each time. It is very possible to do very well in this course
It's challenging, don't get me wrong. I bombed the midterm, then had to get in tip top shape for the final which made the stress worse. Despite all the difficulty, I really enjoyed the material and would definitely do my own research outside of class about the material in the future. The Professor thinks he's funny. He is and he isn't...but the best thing is that he doesn't care. He's annoyed he didn't get a noble prize- you will hear all about it. The class has some cool demonstrations...you have to come to class/ watch lectures online because he puts stuff from there on the exams. This class was a necessary evil for me. I wouldn't do it again, but I'm glad for the overall experience
Like many students in the class, I've been looking forward to writing this evaluation. I'm a senior, and SPU 19 is, without a doubt, the single worst course I have taken at Harvard. This is sad for a few reasons... First, there is no indication that the professor will take these comments seriously. I thought it was funny during his first lecture when he had a screenshot of a Q guide evaluation saying the class was horrible, but lo and behold: The course is, indeed, horrible. (The professor also joked about how we should all fill out the Q guide because he has received worse evaluations than the ones he knew we would give him...) The second reason is that the material should actually be fun to learn. What in the universe is cooler than learning the physics behind black holes?! But I'm leaving this SPU never wanting to study photons or gravity again. It's a true shame, then, that the course was so bad. The pset questions were often poorly worded, and their explanations were borderline incomprehensible at times. The professor is charismatic, but the lectures were absolutely useless in terms of helping students understand the material. He doesnt know how to teach students who dont have quantitative backgrounds (and we were the majority of the course!). Its one thing for a course to be difficult  thats fine, and Ive found a lot of Harvard students to be stupidly afraid of hard work anyway  but this course is on a whole different level. Its inaccessible. Its demoralizing. It accomplishes no goals of the GenEd program. (The average midterm grade was a C, to put this in perspective.) Thank God for the TFs, who seemed to really care about helping the students who didnt have a significant background in these subjects understand the course material. The final was actually pretty easy because it was more conceptual than quantitative (the opposite of the midterm!), but the professor and TFs gave no such indication leading up to it. The entire course felt horrible, then, from start to finish. I suppose the professor has tenure and doesn't need to care about the learning experience of his students. At first it felt cool to take a course with someone so accomplished in his field, but in hindsight, he should not be teaching a GenEd. He is not a committed educator. There are other SPU options that teach similar material. For the sake of the coolest topics in the universe, avoid this course.
The professor was cocky and not understanding of students at all. When I asked to take a quiz at a later date (that he moved according to the syllabus), he would not let me retake it and simply gave me a 0.
A very good gen ed!
Midterm and final are wack
It's an SPU class that's really more history of science than science, so fear not.
This class moves rather slowly and the lectures are often half recap of the previous one. The information is incredibly fascinating, and every once in a while you feel a sense of wonder at your insignificant place within the universe. But I didn't get much out of lectures, or at least it took a while to realize what was actually being conveyed.
I was surprised at how much I enjoyed the material in this class. As a total non-science person (took this for gen ed my senior year super reluctantly), I found myself interested in learning about each week's topic. The class does go over a ton of material, which makes studying for the final a bit difficult, but there are a lot of course resources-- you can schedule office hours with the TFs whenever. I wish I had gone to more office hours for psets, reviewing material, because once you fall behind, it can be hard to catch up. Do the textbook readings-- they help a ton because the lectures are based on them. Especially for the non-science types, it might be good to spend an hour to actually do the readings before lecture (like you're supposed to!) so that lecture isn't a waste of time.
This course was not that stressful. The P-SETS were fair and somewhat easy. The first midterm was surprisingly harder than what I expected and felt that the practice midterms and homework's did little to prepare. Sometimes, questions on exams are very weird or obscure, like it was glossed over in class, but it is a major part of the test. The section part of the course was honestly not helpful at all,  and most of the exam and homework material came from lectures. Also, there are a lot of required readings for the course, which I found annoying.
The midterm is ridiculously hard. There is a good chance you will fail. It's not an easy gen ed, you have to stay on too of lectures and readings and psets.
Do not take this class thinking it will be an easy thing you don't have to pay attention to.
This class is very cool material but it can be boring at times. If you keep up with readings it's a good class.
This class is a really easy and enjoyable way to fulfill the SPU requirement.  Kirshner makes the course fun, especially with his demos at the end of every lecture.  Attendance at lecture is suggested but not required (all lectures are filmed), and they tell you beforehand if you'll have a pop quiz in the lecture (and thus need to attend).  If you have Sarah as your TF, then this will be a great experience.  She was an absolutely terrific TF.  The psets could be completed the night before if need be, and you get two drops which is great.  For the midterm and final, you get one sheet of paper to write notes down on.  There is no excuse to do poorly on the exams.  They're easy, focus on the main ideas of the course, and you get notes!  Also, you don't need to do the readings.  They're pretty fun but not essential to doing well.  I learned a lot about space and it was painless.
This class has some interesting topics near the end, but tends to hog time one boring things like Newton's laws (if you've taken physics before).
This is an outstanding SPU. Not very difficult, but incredibly engaging. Fascinating material (especially if you're interested in space), hilarious/great professor, and the homework is not bad either.
Take this class!! It's a gem of a SPU - not hard and really fun.
Take this class only if you need the GenEd. It is bearable, at best. Psets are annoying and usually not related to lecture. If you do attempt the reading, its terse and yet again unrelated to lecture. Demonstrations in lecture are cool, but usually are left unexplained and then later show up on tests.
This class is really fun and relaxing. You will learn a lot. The professor's own research is super interesting, and the whole class will lead up to how he got there.To do well in the class I would definitely recommend looking at the practice exams. Don't worry about the books, they are not tested on the exam.
This course is an amazing introduction to astronomy for students with limited science backgrounds. Professor Kirshner is an amazing lecturer and opened my mind to the astronomical realities in the solar system and beyond. Amazing.
This class is a low-stress SPU and the lectures are pretty funny, although they do digress sometimes. I enjoyed it!
Professor Kirshner is an incredibly engaging lecturer who truly cares about his students. The class is not very difficult; Professor Kirshner is great at communicating complex topics in an accessible manner. If Sarah Wellons is a TF next time, make sure that you are in her sectionshe is amazing.
Of all the SPU courses, I would definitely recommend this one. It's the most interesting material I could find and not too difficult while still learning a lot. The course isn't the best organized, but the material is very interesting and fun for the sake of knowing.
Kirshner is a hilarious guy. He goes on tangents for about a quarter of the class, but I still came away with a lot of knowledge. I found this class fascinating and not difficult at all. Highly recommend!
There are easier SPUs to take.
Given the lack of labs, this is a harmless way to fulfill the SPU requirement. It does however, at times, feel a bit like high school AP physics. While the work load is low, just one problem set a week, one short presentation, midterm and a final, there may be more inspiring ways to fulfill the requirement, if you have the time.
Not too much work, and Kirshner is hilarious and a great lecturer
This is the perfect SPU! Lectures are entertaining and informative. Professor Kirshner is brilliant and does a lot of funny, memorable demos. I feel like I learned a lot, and I never had to be stressed about my grade. As long as you do the psets and prepare a good cheat sheet for the exams (yes, you always get a cheat sheet), you should be fine.
This is really a great, painless SPU for the less science-inclined.  If you do the work it's easy, and if you don't do the work you can learn all of science in the 24 hours before the final and you'll be okay.
This is an enjoyable and relatively pain-free solution to the SPU problem. That said, don't expect a comprehensive introduction to Astrophysics.  Kirshner is enjoyable and entertaining, but his lectures often stray from the point.
This is a great course to explore your interests, or at least fulfill the Gen Ed requirement. Professor Kirshner is witty and tries to liven up each lecture...definitely come to class to see the demonstrations, which are mostly entertaining!
Wonderful SPU.  I could not recommend a better gen ed.  Prof Kirshner is great, his demo's are on-point, lectures are engaging, and it is relatively easy to stay caught up with the material.  The teaching staff were so helpful and did a great job explaining concepts that were difficult at first.
Don't take it if you really like math, but it's a great class that gives a broad introduction in an intelligible way.
This is an easy course, and I think I would have gotten more out of if we covered all the of material of the work plan, but nonetheless I got something out of it and fulfilled a General Education requirement at the same time.
the course was okay. professor kirshner digresses a bit too much, never seems to get to the point. some of the physical concepts are breezed through, without much elaboration. BUT was it a relatively painless gen-ed knockout? i guess... in the end, fernando, my tf, saved it for me.
If you're looking for a gen-ed science course with excellent readings, minimal group work (problem sets! much better), and engaging lectures, consider this course. Not too much work, and the work you have to do is interesting and fun.
