The class work is easy to understand, but requires willingness to put in the hours.
Huth is a legend. rage.
Primitive Navigation is a fairly painless way to get your SPU requirement out of the way. The first half of the class is really low-key, but the work really ramps up after the midterm. Try to get a good TF because some of the concepts can get pretty confusing.
This course is a good way to learn about some of the interesting features of the natural world. It was a bit disorganized and some of the material seemed arbitrary. There are some fun assignments and experiments and it was fun getting to go to the roof of the science center and observe stars.
It's pretty fun but a little slow
This course is a relatively painless way to fulfill the SPU Gen Ed. The lectures are basically taken word-for-word from the textbook (written by the professor), so it's easy to get away with not going to lecture, which isn't mandatory. However, the course material starts out very easy and gets much harder the second half of the semester, so be careful not to get too complacent. The assignments are hands-on, often outdoor projects, which can be unpleasant if the weather's bad, but they were never hugely difficult. I wished more focus had been afforded to the historical/anthropological aspect of the course (examining ancient navigational systems in the context of the cultures in which they originated), but instead most of the material focused on the practical applications of navigational techniques and the mathematical and scientific principles behind them. To be fair, though, it is an SPU class, so maybe I should have seen that coming.
Huth is a straight up g. Professor Huth is very interesting and loves what he teaches.
The material is fantastic but the class demands far more work than is required.
Cool class in the beginning, but starts to drag on at the end of the semester.
Make sure you're interested in the material. It takes more time than you might expect, since the assignments are pretty cumbersome.
Not a gem.  SPU is a tough one, but there are better ones.
It's easy to fall into a trap of doing very little between the midterm and the final. DON'T
While mostly painless and sometimes interesting, this class also makes me feel like I'm in middle school again.
its a reasonably good way to get thru your SPU credit, it's mostly easy though it gets more difficult towards the end, some of the work is rather time-specific (i.e. stargazing, checking the weather, etc)
This class got a reputation for being easy, so it appears they have added a bunch of busy work to make it as inconvenient as possible.
The course is great for learning basic navigation skills, but the material gets rather scattered.
First half is easy and super interesting, then it gets tedious and a lot harder. Don't slack off after the midterm because you've been doing well so far!!
Painless way to fulfill SPU requirement. Some of the assignments are a lot of fun.
The structure of the class was frustrating. My section leader provided little help (at time, condescending remarks and other times, contradictory answers to what the professor said). The assignments, though not necessarily difficult, are tedious and time consuming. Though I had high hopes, lectures were not interesting. My classmates who didn't go to lecture or watch the videos did just as well if not better than the students who took notes at lecture.
Take it! It's easy and very interesting. You will learn plenty about physics without it being onerous.
This class is amazing and I highly recommend it! Professor Huth's lectures are engaging and extremely entertaining, and you come away having learned a great deal about physics and navigation.
Make sure you're well-rested for lecture b/c it is 1.5 hours and if you take it because it is an easy Gen-ed, it is liable to put you to sleep. Also keep in mind that going to lecture and hopping on the computer or doing other work is completely pointless- just don't come to lecture b/c no one is taking attendance. Professor Huth is passionate about what he teaches; it is just boring stuff. Be sure to ask your TF for help on assignments because while they are usually easy, lecture (and sometimes section) doesn't prepare you completely for them. Midterm isn't bad. Final can be if you stopped paying attention or going to lecture after the midterm like i did.
It's a good way to fulfill SPU. Professor Huth is a great guy and very interesting. For the most part, the course does not require a lot of work, but be aware that there is a final exam and final project.
As an SPU gen-ed, the class is not engaged at all. I attended every lecture, but lots of kids didn't. As such, the course sort of took on a "low-priority" role. That said, the assignments were often hard, but interesting, and the final project was great. Final exam was very difficult, lots of random facts to learn.
Prim Nav is an interesting and unique course that may well be the best option for you to complete your SPU requirement.  The subject material can be fascinating, especially if you go to lecture and take the time to do the readings.  It's quite friendly to people who are a bit afraid of math and science.  Some assignments can be a pain, but overall its a reasonable course that can teach you some really cool stuff about the natural world.
This class devolves into a series of esoteric facts
This is a great way to fulfill SPU! That being said, it's still SPU. Some of the weeks--like weather--are really fascinating, others are heavy on math or more obscure in terms of information.
The topics are fascinating and Professor Huth is a good, enthusiastic lecturer. Sections, though, were quite bad. My section leader was unable to communicate ideas effectively and seemed remarkably miserable about having to teach us.
Be ready for some very meticulous and tedious assignments.
Listen to Huth and only Huth. Ask him questions and make use of him--he's really nice about helping out! However, the book contains everything mentioned in lectures and more. Problem sets take TIME. Plan to do it in advance! For the project, make sure it's scientifically legit!
This class is fun, and Prof Huth is nice and approachable and is very enthusiastic about the course material. Assignments are, for the most part, fun and easy but be prepared to spend some time outside in the bitter New England cold.
Very time-intensive and specific knowledge; you can't really rely on your math skills. If you want an easy gened, take something chemistry, physics based
It's fun, interesting, and captivating. Don't think you can put in absolutely no effort though: this class is not extremely difficult but putting in some work is as necessary as it is rewarding.
This is the best class I've take at Harvard.  That said, I took it as an elective AND I am one of those people who really wants to learn to navigate while kayaking (i.e. I had a vested interest in the course).  I learned excellent hard skills and had a great time.  I would take it again, totally and without a doubt.
Have an interest in the topic or you will be unsatisfied
It is a really fun class.  You get to learn a lot of little facts that you can nerdily pull out in social situations.  Professor Huth is a sweetheart and his book is really interesting and funny.
its a great class q
Prof. Huth has done a lot of work to make Prim Nav one of the best SPU/EMR courses out there. Take it if you have an interest in navigation, and you'll be rewarded with a richer knowledge of natural phenomena that will help you get around (from weather patterns to stars). If you don't have this interest and take Prim Nav solely to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement, you probably won't like it or learn a great deal.
great class
I wouldn't take this class to learn something about physics as it is currently studied. It's a lot more like a high school science class: assignments ask you to collect random data (most of which you can't actually measure accurately with your equipment) to test out methods that are simplistic and more like rules of thumb. If you enjoy assignments that ask you to go out and collect data, you might like it, but if you want to learn any sort of coherent material that actually builds up to a systematic understanding of the world, this is not for you.
This class was a LOT more difficult than expected. The exams were extremely hard, the assignments were very time consuming, and if you don't know math ... good luck. Do not get Tony as a TF.
Great SPU, lectures are interesting and assignments are great for reinforcing information.
I wish I attended class more often and took it more seriously. Actually some pretty interesting stuff.
Take this class. Professor Huth is knowledgeable and a good lecturer; he cares about the topic and his students and will talk to you if you come by his office. No lab component because he ingeniously just performs the experiments in class and keeps it interesting instead of students spending a tedious and bored three hours in a stuffy lab room. Why don't more classes do this?! Anyway, the material is interesting and prepares you for the real world, primitive navigation-style. You learn a lot and at the end you are amazed at how much you know. Another great thing: the course is not Western-centric. You learn about navigation in a bunch of different cultures. And the end of year project is pretty much an a la carte deal, so if you like what you're doing and put in the effort, it is very rewarding. Not something I thought I would say, but perhaps I'm getting soft in my old age. Senior writing this, over and out.(Listen to this review. I usually don't say so much in my course evals.)
If you take this course, try to get into section with Mark Gabrielson. He is engaging and helpful.
Steer clear
Assignments are time-consuming, but there are only 6 of them, and they get you out into the world, so they are fun. This course involves basic math, but only as it relates to real things in the world, so none of it feels pointless.
Great way to fulfill Gen Ed. Even if you don't need an SPU Gen Ed, I'd recommend this class. So interesting, great teaching staff.
Take this class if you are interested in exploring the physical phenomena that affect our ability to orient ourselves on Earth. As a gen ed, you trade convenience, ease, and comfort for real engagement with a subject through creative labs, and applicability of what you're studying to the real world.
it takes patience to learn the stars.
This is a wonderful class!
This class is by far the worst General Education class I have ever taken. It is a logistical nightmare for students and teaching fellows as the website is poorly run, making it difficult for students to turn in assignments--never expect to have feedback or grades on those. The lectures have some interesting and helpful material, but they are often dry, longer than they need to be, and include lots of excess material that is not at all relevant to what the course wants to accomplish. You will be tested on this information regardless of its relevance to the course. Primitive Navigation is just another Gen Ed that takes itself too seriously and unnecessarily gets in the way of your graduation.
This class rocks! It's like boy scouts. You really do learn how to pay attention to your surroundings to not only help you navigate but also to tell time, weather, and other patterns. The assignments are at time annoying, but in the end they really do help you synthesize the material. You will definitely not regret taking the course - and you'll be able to pick up all the chicks by showing them where Dubhe is.
The class was an interesting, somewhat eclectic mix of topics taught by a professor who absolutely loves this stuff.  It was fun and not too much work.
This class just takes up a lot of your time when you don't initially expect it to. It's important to keep going to lectures or at least keep up with the readings or else you'll end up very lost, even though lectures are relatively boring.
It's a good course to fulfill the SPU requirement if you do not have an interest or experience in science courses.
Great class, take time to go outside and go to lectures. Don't take it if you don't actually want to learn about the material.
This is a great SPU class if you are not that sciency. You still get a great grasp of the physical sciences but get a much more hands on experience and can use this information the rest of your life.
More time consuming than you'd expect. I just took it to get SPU done before senior year.
Cool class, learned lots of fun facts and it's not very difficult. Some parts  get a bit boring, such as ship design, but overall I learned a lot of practical and interesting material. There's no lab either and the assignments are easy! The final and midterm are a bit difficult but doable.
It's quirky and fun.
Prof. Huth tries hard to make this a good class, and in many ways it's better than most, but there are big problems. Our section TF explained that Huth "likes to keep the assignments ambiguous, so you have to apply the principles of the class to know what to do." This is incredibly dumb. The assignments are often ambiguous, which makes doing them more stressful and pointless. While it's cool to learn practical things that combine real-world prediction and navigation with abstract theory, it's not cool at all to memorize star coordinates. In no way does the latter correspond to actually understanding where stars are in the sky or how to navigate by them.
There is no other class at Harvard like Prim Nav!
You will get out of this course as much or little as you put into it.  If you are interested in outdoor recreation then you will probably find the subject matter cool, so if you make the time to get into it then you'll have a good time, but you can also blow it off and not learn a lot because it's not a very difficult course.
This course made me consider the world around me in a more thoughtful way. I would recommend it if you're interested in navigation, star-gazing, or sailing.
You went out kayaking in the ocean and a storm hits, blowing you miles away from visible land. Amongst many other fascinating survival strategies, Professor Huth will teach you weather-predicting skills to avoid this scenario and ancient wave-piloting techniques to get you safely back to land.
Do not take this class unless you are willing to spend time doing the practical assignments (i.e. going outside every 30 mins for a day measuring how high the sun is in the sky). The lectures are exceedingly dry. Never has it been so easy for me to snooze during class. This class is a fake gem, so only take it if you're super into navigation/geography/sailing etc.
This is a good SPU to take.
Not bad for SPU. More relevant to actual life than many others. Assignments are not hard but do take time as you have to walk somewhere to take measurements or go on top of science center to look at stars.
This class isn't too difficult if you keep up with the work. In fact, you stand to learn a lot about "lost behavior" and human survival instincts. The tests aren't too difficult, and the assignments--while actually requiring real legwork--are a lot of fun, too, if you put the time aside and actually do them. You'll stargaze, predict weather, and walk around Cambridge. Just have fun with it! It's rare that you'll have the opportunity to navigate Cambridge with a compass for credit!
The class is called primitive navigation. Some of the assignments are a little whacky, but you will learn interesting stuff and it's not that tough. Plus being able to pick out stars is a great conversation starter.
A large amount of obscure material, some of which is interesting, but would be much more so in reality instead of just in theory.
Get ready to lots of your homework outside!
This class is interesting, but not as interesting as I thought it would be.
super fun class, definitely the best SPU
If you're interested in the subject matter, take the class; your TF may be hit or miss, but Huth is a fascinating scientist and he tries hard to make the class work (though it is disorganized at times).
This class has a reputation for being easy, but it really should also have one for being awesome. Professor Huth clearly cares deeply about the material, and the assignments and lectures are well thought-out. Lectures can be a lot at once, especially if you don't have a science background (I don't), but this is a great way to fulfill SPU.
It's fun! The assignments require going outside and physically walking/ testing some concepts, but they're interesting. Lectures tend to be a bit disjointed and are at an unfortunate time (2:30-4, prime post lunch nap time), but Huth clearly cares about the material and the class and tries to make it interesting with demos.
This course is more interesting in the first half than the second half. It's fairly easy, but you won't be able to do NO work. I'd recommend going to lecture and keeping up with the material. It won't be terribly challenging but you'll have to keep on top of it.
It's really fun and interesting.
Make sure you take this in the fall! If you take this 2nd semester, then you will freeze as you do your assignments!
Easy and fun, practical, good blend of history and science and adventure!
Primitive Navigation is a truly excellent course; it is without a doubt one of the best that I have taken at Harvard.  Professor Huth has a passion for his material that you will not find in any other professor in the school; he is an entertaining lecturer and fills class with exciting, often impressive and/or amusing demonstrations.  I had some background with the materials covered due to being an Eagle Scout, but I think that even if you don't have background you will find the material interesting and manageable.  Don't take the class just to fulfill the requirement though; take it to enjoy one of the most fun engaging courses that Harvard offers!!
If you need to get your SPU out of the way, this is a solid way to do it while also learning about some pretty cool stuff.
Some of the concepts in this class were difficult and some of the assignments were time-consuming, but this class was definitely worth the while. I am not a math or science person--I was taking this for Gen Ed credit--but I still found all the topics we covered extremely interesting, and really enjoy my new ability to identify stars and to name cloud formations. If you are able to pay attention in class and keep up with the work, this is the perfect way to fulfill SPU.
This course takes more time than one might want from a gen ed, but it teaches a great deal about the subject matter, on both a practical and theoretical level.
I don't know if you want to take this course.  SPU is a pretty brutal Gen Ed in general, so good luck.  If you are interested in the subject material, take it and take it.  Just go for it.
Very materials. Definitely recommend you to get the book to get a solid grasp on the course material.
I would recommend this class only because there are very few SPU offerings. There are things about this class that are very interesting and valuable to learn (I had no idea how to use a compass before this class, for example). But at the same time, it is a much more challenging class than I expected it to be
This is a great class and Professor Huth is an absolutely legendary professor. It is clear how much Professor Huth cares about the material and if you take the time to actually engage yourself with the course, you will enjoy it, as well. Great way to fulfill SPU; I would strongly recommend it.
lectures are an hour and a half which can feel kind of long, especially if you've had more than one other class that day. huth is great, knows so much and is extremely enthusiastic! he can get a little monotonous but he always asks if people want to take breaks, very nice about it.
Assignments tend to be time-consuming, if final project coincides with the final assignment and the final exam, then time-consuming. Lectures tend to be long, but otherwise very useful!
It's a good spu to take if you are not very interested in science, but it has little practical application if you are not a camper/hiker/rotc cadet.
This course is a great SPU course. I would recommend it. It will give you skills that you can use in your everyday life and teach you to appreciate and notice the world around you more than you did. You'll also be in a lot better shape if you ever find yourself in "Swiss Family Robinson" or "Castaway" situation.
Great way to get SPU done. It is an accessible class for non-science people.
This class requires some hands-on work to grasp concepts, so it's not an "easy class" per se, but what you learn can be integrated into your daily life in some pretty fascinating ways.
An excellent way to fulfill a math requirement. Interesting stuff and laid back atmosphere. If you stay on top of things over the course of the semester, this course is easy, but you still learn really fun and interesting stuff.
A very interesting class with an awesome professor.
meh
It is a very interesting class and one of my favorites this year. I learned a lot of very practical tools on what to do if I'm lost as well as about the history of Primitive Navigation.
This class is very interactive and fun.  I also learned a ton from it and actually might find my way home if I'm ever lost.
It's a pretty easy class, but it is really interesting and very informative. The teaching staff is fantastic
This class is awesome! If you need to fulfill the SPU requirement, this is a great option. The assignments take some time but I found it rewarding in the end.
This is the best class I have ever taken.  I literally use its lessons every single day.  Not only do I love this class, but all of my roommates and many of my other friends learned this courses lessons and have come to love it.
Great class. Exactly what one wants in a gen ed.  Not to hard but cool material.
A fairly interesting course considering the gen-ed requirement that it has to fill. Worth considering.
The final project is hard, the material is sometimes uninteresting, but the teaching staff is very nice and helpful: they talk you through everything.  You'll thank yourself for going to section.  Watch out for the pretty big final project.  Overall, not a bad way to get SPU.
Take this course. Huth is a legend.
This course is really, really easy. If you are looking for a unique, fun, and interesting way to knock out the physical science gen ed, take this course. It's a nice break from typical courses.
This is a great way to learn about nature, history, and navigation, and an especially great class for non-science concentrators.
Take this class if you want to feel slightly nerdy but extremely cool.
Although lectures can sometimes get a little boring, Professor Huth is an awesome professor. Some of the things in the course I learned I might never use but there were a lot of things from the course that I remember and think about almost every day. I would recommend it to fulfill the Science of the Physical Universe requirement if you are not really into math/physics. It is a useful class to take, and can be pretty interesting.
You think it's gonna be cool, but it's hard to stay motivated enough to get a lot out of it.
This is stuff you will be able to show your grandkids, and that's pretty rare and should be valued
This is a fun class
Easy GenEd class!
dont take it, boring lecture, boring homework, too much kayaking mentions
Interesting stuff for the most part.  Can be quite boring at times, but overall very good.  Helps that most is just plain easy.
Don't take it!!! It is so boring and the lectures do not provide the necessary background on concepts that is required to understand what is going on. It's not actually practical, and I was just confused the entire time. Assignments don't require conceptual understanding, making it kind of easy in practice but you will still be confused. Also the group project is a huge pain and can screw you if you have bad people that you are randomly assigned to work with.
Super easy for first half of the semester, then picks up in complexity. But overall very manageable. Pick your final project group wisely and pick a fun topic that you'll all enjoy. Then you're set for the class.
Although I found this course a bit misleading in that it's not really about "Primitive" navigation because it involves quite a decent amount of calculations/map-skills/etc. However, if you are willing to put effort into your p-sets and give yourself enough time to do the take-home final AND the final project, which takes a lot more time than you'd expect, then this course can be a decent course. Oh, remember to take this with at least one or two friends- this will come in handy when you choose your group for both weather and final project.
I am unlikely to recommend this course because of its nebulous grading structure and its evaluation disconnect from what was actually taught.
More  work than you think it is going to be, really need to keep on top of it!
Students need to be very VERY aware that this course will require a lot of TIME-SPECIFIC work outside of the classroom.  This is different than just requiring a lot of work, as many (most) courses do that.  This course requires you to do certain things in certain places at certain times.  If you have a very busy or rigid schedule DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE.
The problem sets are a lot of work for a gen ed, but the work isn't that hard.
Do not take it, tons of pointless busy work.  Time would be better spent elsewhere. Easy if you are willing to waste a lot of time and learn nothing practical.
Some of the psets are time consuming and time sensitive, so start them early to get them out of the way.
Overall, an interesting and manageable course. Professor Huth has a great sense of humor, and often does cool experiments in lecture. While this course is relatively easy, the assignments can be fairly nit-picky.
This is an intriguing course with a swath of real world applications!
Easy class to get SPU out of the way. However, although the work isn't hard it's CONSTANT. At finals time there is a take home final and final project which can very much take away from your other more difficult classes. However, the class is still an interesting class and a great way to get rid of a gen ed.
not as easy as you think it is - especially if you don't enjoy science courses
Quite easy, pretty interesting, the final project will be much more work than you expect.
You will feel seriously cool when you know how to find stuff. It's so worth it.
If you want to fulfill an SPU requirement, I'd say this is one of the top 3 to take. It's actually really fun and USEFUL material. After the class, you learn how to predict the weather, where all the stars/constellations are, the path of the sun/moon, how tides, waves, sailboats, mapmaking, etc. works. Also, the only math pre-requisite you need is know trigonometry...I'd definitely recommend this class to a non-quantitative concentrator whose looking for a science gen ed. oh yea, you will also have fun in this class! The assignments are interactive with your classmates. Word of advice: take this class with a buddy or two, it makes the assignments more enjoyable.
The material is very interesting, but the prob sets are time consuming, because many require collecting data, etc.
The class is centered around a really interesting topic, but the lectures can be unorganized and boring.
The lectures have very entertaining portions along with boring portions.  Huth is very enthusiastic on the subject.  Assignments can be surprising difficult or cumbersome.  It is good to have friends in the course to do assignments with or know what is going on. The final project can take up a lot of time.   Good for a gen ed.
There is a ton of work and it is very time consuming but not too difficult to do well.
This course was not as much of a gem as I initially anticipated. Be prepared to spend at least four hours every Tuesday night working on problem sets and try to get Luke as a TF. On the other hand, I was surprised to realize upon attempting the final exam that I had, in fact, learned a lot over the course of the semester.
This course has a reputation of being an "easy gen-ed", but I didn't necessarily find that to be true.  The problem sets require a bit of time, and can be incredibly frustrating unless you pay close attention in lecture, which can be difficult if you are not genuinely interested in the material.
I think this is one of the best Science of the Physical Universe courses you can take.  Professor Huth is very enthusiastic, the material is interesting and a wide variety of topics are covered, and the psets/final/project aren't too demanding.  However, I have to say that I expected the course to be much less work than it was; if you're a thesis-writing senior looking for the SPU with the lightest workload, this might not be it!  That said, it wasn't too bad work-wise, and I did enjoy it and learned a lot.
Good course if you dislike science and need an SPU course. However, the Psets can be difficult.
Very cool class, but in order to get something out of it, you really need to commit to it and not treat it like a joke.  If you put in the effort, it will really pay off and you will learn some really cool skills.
It's a good time but be wary of lots of hidden time in the work. great class!
The material is really interesting, and Prof. Huth is really passionate. However, it really doesn't work well as a large lecture class, and unless you're actively engaged, you'll get almost nothing out of it. Basically, DON'T take this class just to fulfill a gen ed, you'll be sorely disappointed.
It's a very average Gen Ed. Not as easy as you think it'll be, definitely more time consuming than you'd think. Work isn't necessarily hard, but the class isn't taught well, which can make the problem sets difficult.
This is a fun way to fulfill an SPU requirement.
Course pack is optional
It's a whole lotta work and even though you're learning cool stuff, it's hard to remember cause you never need it in the city
If you're interested in the subject, this is a great class. However, if you're not invested it'll be difficult to pay attention in lecture and do the readings.
Course load during most of the semester is pretty easy, but if you do not pay attention and learn the stuff, the take home final and project are more difficult.  Lectures may be hard to pay attention to, but it makes homework much more easy.
Good way to fulfill SPU for non-science students as it did not require any background in science. Lectures can be brutal and problem sets can be tricky but not impossible.
This class is certainly unique, but it tends to get a bit tedious and boring.
This class gives you practical knowledge that I am really glad to have gained, and it also taught me to appreciate the world around me; however, the lectures were often dull and the work was overly onerous for a gened class, I thought.
This class was harder than I expected, but maybe that's because I'm a humanities student who has never taken a math/physics course in college. The psets take a while to do, which isn't fun, but the stuff you learn is pretty interesting and the professor's really cool. Also no exams are great, but the group project can be annoying.
Lots of busy work, you won't remember anything.
This class was the easy class last year but they made it much more difficult and time consuming.  I would find another class to take to fulfill this gened, its not worth the stress.
Not a difficult course, but be prepared to commit some time to going outside and and doing assignments- not a course for people who want to do all their work in the library, as you have to go places to do the assignment tasks.
If you were to attend the class consistently, you would learn practical, interesting, and new material--ways to navigate and find your way around. If you are just looking to "kill the requirement," you can do decently well in the class with minimal work and without ever attending lecture.
This course is very interesting and informative, but can be very competitive.
This class was great. I would only recommend it if you are interested in the material. Professor Huth is awesome and you can definitely make a good grade in this class.
This class isn't nearly as approachable as it is marketed to be. You really need to have a genuine interest in the subjects to get anything out of this course. The general consensus amongst my classmates was that the assignments aren't difficult, they just take a lot of time that you may not have if you're taking more difficult classes. For example, walking in a straight line for 20 minutes and doing some calculations isn't hard, but it means budgeting at least an hour of your time that is already precious enough. Still, it satisfies the SPU requirement relatively painlessly, so I recommend with reservations.
The class is not too difficult, but can be very time consuming.
my tf was absolutely terrible and ruined the class for me.  he gave me bad grades for no apparent reason and didn't even read the coursebook so he knew nothing more than us and was not helpful whatsoever... if anything he made me more confused every time i came to section.  professor huth is pretty cool though
"It's a trap!" This class seems really easy at first, but it gets harder. Try to pay attention in lectures throughout the course, as Psets become really difficult if you don't. Also, I don't recommend taking this course unless you have some solid friends taking it with you, because the final project is really difficult when you get placed with random people you've never met before.
Easy and fun class, but takes a LOT more time than you think, so be prepared to spend 7-10 hours every week on this class in psets and the final project.
Most of the navigation techniques in this class would be impractical in the real world--a compass? yes. protractor with a straw and string attached to it? not so much. A lot of the assignments were pure number crunching, and while Prof Huth and his lectures were interesting, they weren't really relevant.
it has a lot of requirement and class time. but the material is interesting and doing well is not unlikely
This class teaches interesting material but it has a lot of assignments which sometimes feel like busy work.
The first half of this course has some really useful information that could help you if you are lost, but the later material is kind of tedious and requires a computer, which is ironic for primitive navigation.  Some of the assignments are fun and get you out and about, but others are just kind of a pain.  The video can also be annoying, but the take home final is a huge plus!
be careful with section
Not fun or interesting and requires too much time.
This is a perfect SPU that is not difficult. However, at times the problem sets and projects take more time than you think they will so make sure to pay attention and it'll go really well!
Interesting course material but extremely poor planning. Prof. Huth is enthusiastic and has first hand knowledge of almost everything he teaches, and some of the assignments, like taking walks and stargazing, are fun and instructional. However, the long lectures (and long sections) leave plenty of time to cram in material that is never tested; it's hard to know what to pay attention to. Similarly, his textbook is a hodge-podge of knowledge and anecdotes that is basically useless, and the "assignments" are vague and include more scene-setting than questions. Sometimes, the rubric for an "assignment" is released after you've already turned the "assignment" in. The final project is done in teams of 5 or 6 - way too large - and your grade hinges on how helpful your TF is.Get used to guessing what is being asked of you, and using google to figure out the answer. Very intriguing premise, ruined by its presentation - a relatively painless, but frustrating, gen ed.
This course is very little work, but could be taught in a manner that makes it easier to understand.
While I encourage students to pick this course, I must warn them that this is not as easy of a course it may seem. Even though the course does not have a midterm and only a final project and take home final, the weekly homework assignments can be difficult.
It's an easy class, but only if you TAKE IT SERIOUSLY (and it tempting to not).
The course is entertaining and not too difficult.  It's a good way to fill a gen-ed.
Don't say another word, take this class.
Primitive Navigation teaches you some practical skills and gives you an appreciation for what you can learn from the world around you. The workload is manageable. The course seems a bit unfinished; many assignments are in need of revision to make them more clear.
Keep up with the work or else you'll be super confused down the line. The psets were a bit troublesome because you had to do it sometimes during the day and make multiple observations. But, that being said, I really felt like I took away real understanding about the world from the class and the course was not that difficult overall. It's a lot of material, but you don't have to understand everything at first, so be patient with it. Huth is really great and you get a take home final, so shop it and think about it
This course is easy. Be warned, though, that the assignments are tedious. Also, factor in whether you'll be able to do a take-home final AND a final project (video) during reading period. The material is fun and quite useful (you'll never look at the sky the same way!), so it is enjoyable to go to lecture.
This class is not as easy as it seems
This course actually requires a lot more from students than I originally expected. And after all that, I didn't really feel that I had learned much useful information.
This class may seem like a good gen ed but it ends up being a lot more stressful than one would assume.
Take the class with friends. It will make a difference when you have to do the video project at the end.
Painless way to fulfill a gened requirement
Honestly, I would never recommend this class.  It is by far the worst class I have taken here at Harvard.  Professor Huth just stands infront of you and talks about stuff he feels like talking about.  The topics are completely unrelated and the assignments are impossible because as a student you have no idea what is happening.  NEVER TAKE THIS CLASS.  I really cannot tell you how miserable it truly is.  Shame on Harvard for allowing a class of this caliber to even exist.
Huth is really entertaining, so it's worth it to go to lecture. You do have to put an effort into all the assignments; it's not the easiest of easy-A classes.
One must be enthusiastic about the course material because the class can be difficult and time consuming at times.
Assignments take longer than you think and if you don't keep up with the material you'll feel lost later on in the semester.
More math than I had expected. The lectures are generally interesting although the assignments are not. It required more time than I would have expected.
This course starts out with very simple assignments that get increasingly harder as the course proceeds.  It is not a class that should be taken passively.  John Huth always provides cool personal anecdotes during lecture, but sometimes the lecture material is hard to follow. While it was not a substantial amount of work in the beginning, by the end there was a lot of work to put into the final project and the take-home final was actually quite challenging. This is not an easy way to fulfill SPU. Math is not my strong point and I found this class quite difficult.
Do not go into this class thinking that it will be a breeze. There is work involved. It is very interesting. You will learn many things about how navigate and discover many interesting things about the planet, sun, moon and stars.
I loved the hands-on problems sets and how practical this class was.
It is useful but tough!
Not as easy as people say. Be prepared to spend a lot of time doing the homework assignments, many of them involve walking places and taking measurements. Grading on homework and tests is very flexible. It was unorganized in the beginning and the TF's didn't seem to know much, but after mid class evaluations they improved on a lot of things!
More work than you would think.
The lectures are uninteresting, the material is irrelevant, and on the whole the course is an exercise in misery.
Nice having assignments that get you outside and away from a computer. so this class is a good way to learn some practical skills and knock out a gen ed
professor huth is the man, but this course can be a little annoying as a gen ed
Not that difficult of a course.  Lectures are tedious and not that necessary.
This class took more time than I thought it would, but it was extremely enjoyable. I now feel accomplished when I look up at the stars and can find the latitude, or look at cloud formations and predict the weather.
a lot of busy work.
This class is different from any other class you'll take at Harvard. Professor Huth really cares about the subject matter, and you see that come across in the way he tries to plan fun activities for problem sets.
Take this class with friends and get ready to collaborate on psets.
This class was extremely interesting. If you're the outdoorsy type, these concepts can often be applied, but if you're not the concepts are still interesting nonetheless.
Good class to take for SPU requirement, nothing else.
professor huth is the man.
Prof. Huth is hilarious and extremely knowledgeable.
It will not lead to a field of concentration; however it is a fun class to take for a semester.
Stay caught up!
there is literally no better way to fulfill science of the physical universe.
The work required for some problem sets requires some awkward hours (exclusive to nights, or requiring an entire day), but you will learn and retain many methods of practical navigation.
This is the perfect SPU class for humanities/non-science people. The professor is absolutely amazing - one of the nicest professors I've met at Harvard and willing to do anything to help his students. The class is interesting, goes at a great speed, and can challenge your mind without being difficult. Even if you're interested in navigation, take it as an elective!
Light course load. Much better if taken with friends.
Relatively easy course and relatively interesting subject matter.
This class is a lot of work and the material is fairly difficult, but I loved learning about how to the sun, moon, and stars work and how to navigate! It was a really entertaining class and Professor Huth is awesome! He really loves teaching!
This class was the single best experience I've had.
I really enjoyed the course.  If you have a background in physics, you may get a little frustrated by the lack of physics in the course.  Besides that, the course was tons of fun.
Take this class - you'll learn really nifty things about the natural world and pay way more attention to your surroundings.
Honestly one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
The course is interesting and not hard, but takes more time than you might think. The weekly assignments can be a bit random, and require time and planning to execute well.
Painless, yet boring.
This is a misnomer.  Ancient peoples would have had a tough time trying to navigate the way John Huth describes.
Interesting material and excellent professor.  May be more difficult than expected but totally worth the extra time put into it.
Professor Huth is awesome, and the problem sets and final exam (surprisingly!) are really fun. However, at times the work is tedious and seems a bit contrived.
Interesting material and relatively painless, but more focused on being a "science" course - which ends up bringing in some topics not really related to navigation. Historical part is interesting. Does not really teach a whole lot of actual practical navigation (Check Astro 2: Celestial Nav for that), but still a fun class with fun demonstrations. Prof. John Huth is quite engaging and has many interesting stories to tell. The large size of the class may have contributed to some of its weaknesses this year, perhaps it will be improved in the future.
This is a really fantastic course. It is a fun and somewhat simple way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement, the material is fascinating and the teaching staff is very helpful. Even if you don't find weather or winds interesting (for example), there's still boat structure and celestial navigation. I would only warn about the group project. Try to find a good group of people you can work with and who won't complain about their "papers" and other classes they need to study for instead of helping, otherwise you can get stuck with doing most the work (I did).
This was such an amazing class. It was the first science class that I've loved, quite possibly ever.
This is an excellent and fun way to get your math or physical science credit.  I wouldn't take anything else.
Huth is arrogant. If there is more structure to the class and more purpose in the assignments, it would be much more worthwhile. It should have been much harder to do well.
it was disappointing, though justin was a very understanding and accommodating tf
Course seemed to have a lot of non science majors in it looking to take the least science and math-based science course possible.  Read the syllabus and decide from there if you want the course.  It fell short of my expectations not because of the topics but because there was so much info (most of the time confusing at first) that I just fell behind in readings.  Still able for anyone to well in the course however.
Really cool material. The assignments are great, all hands on, in the field stuff. HOWEVER, lectures are incredibly boring, dull. If you're willing to forgive that, though, its an easy way to fulfill a core and learn interesting, relevant stuff.
This is worth taking for your own edification, whether you need to complete a requirement or not.
It was pretty easy if you just used common sense and followed instructions, but took time to do it right
amazing, low-key class that teaches you interesting pragmatic skills and the professor is the man
Assignments are really fun
going to lecture seemed unnecessary. All the information could be found online or in the handouts.
This class could literally save your life. How many classes at Harvard could say that?
An interesting and fun way to get rid of a Physics requirement. Also, if you have any interest in navigation as I did its definitely a course to take while at Harvard. It's great to get out of the classroom and library and see the concepts you are studying in class happening around you.
They do not ask very much of you, but with a little initiative, you can really get a lot out of it.
This class was fabulous. I was dreading taking the science gen-ed classes, but this class made it easy, fun, and interesting. The professor is obviously passionate about this subject, and that made lectures very enjoyable. I would highly recommend taking this if you're looking for a fun way to fulfill your SPU general education requirement.
Make sure you do lots of practice problems. Lectures are helpful, but they will not explain the mechanics of specific problems.
it's not as fun as it sounds- some parts are really fun but there are a lot of parts that are just tedious
It's probably THE best way to fulfill the science of the physical universe requirement if you're not a science concentrator
I love the concept, but I think it needs to be reworked a bit before it is ready for mass- consumption.
Future students should keep in mind that this class involves a lot of hands-on labs. The homework is not necessarily difficult, but it can be time consuming at times and it can be difficult to time the work because a lot of it needs to be done at a specific time (i.e. at sunstet, on a specific day, etc.) Also, students should keep in mind that although this course is entitled Primitive Navigation, it's not a history of that navigation. Rather, its a a mathematical and scientific exploration of the techniques used by primitive navigators.
Don;t expect this to be a practcal class in navigational techniques. This is a small amount of the material covered, most of which is statistical in nature.
THIS CLASS IS FABULOUS AND PROFESSOR HUTH IS AWESOME.  i loved this class, but probably because i'm a huge geek.  at the same time, there's not too much work, what you learn is legitimately interesting, and prof H does some cool experiments and tells some fun stories during class.  it's one of those classes where if you let yourself have a good time, it makes the whole experience much more fun, entertaining, and worthwhile.  if you spend the whole time thinking it's stupid, it will be.  also i was stoked to learn to use a compass.
More work than you think.
Unless you enjoy sitting in a dark room and listening to a professor trash his relatives for an hour-and-a-half twice a week, sitting through sections with poorly-prepared TFs, and doing homework that tries to teach you math and navigation at once but fails at both tasks--unless you like bagloads of boredom and busywork for your GenEd requirements--don't take this course.
Great SPU course
Fun and easy class, but you get out of it what you put in.
I would tell them that the class requires a good amount of time and effort because there is so much info to be learned but that the topic is very interesting and cool to learn about.
Not a bad way to fulfill your requirement.  Probably could be great if you were SUPER invested.
This course was just so enjoyable. I'm thrilled that I took it. I learned so much. And Professor Huth is so generous with sharing his knowledge and helping his students with the material.
easy, not that fun, and very disorganized
It was interesting and useful
Very interesting course and all we learn we can apply to our daily life!
This is not as easy a class as it might seem. It is not hard to get away with not doing a lot of work on a regular basis. The final movie project was very frustrating and time-consuming. However, the course material is very interesting and Prof. Huth is very passionate about the subject.
More work than you'd expect, but really rewarding if you pay attention.
This class is really fun. It's a great way to get a gened out of the way. Prof. Huth is awesome!
