Beware. You may not understand anything in this class. And it may be the worst academic mistake you will ever make. But there are definitely cool demos that you will enjoy watching.
I would only recommend this course to students who are interested in the subject matter (and it relates much less to music than I thought, more to sound itself). Also, you have to be willing to take a hands-on approach to this class rather than a more straightforward approach. Also, it is essential to pay attention to everything that happens in lecture.
Unorganized, scattered and scary.  But you'll get an A. Be prepared to be confused.
It's a pretty cool introduction to the physics of music and sound but not incredibly organized
This is a horrible class. The textbook, written by Professor Heller, is poorly written and does not explain the class concepts well. Lectures are disconnected from the homework and the problem sets involve more mathematical formulas than are ever necessary on the examinations. The exams are almost impossible to study for since so much of it is on class theory.
The class is sometimes tough but it's really rewarding to be able to understand what's going on sonically in your environment and in music.  Be sure to start homeworks early and use office hours for them.
A manageable, entertaining Core. The midterms are a little iffy (sometimes the true/false seemed like trick questions), but stick with the problem sets, go to section, and you should be fine. The material itself is also interesting: who doesn't enjoy music and wonder about how it's produced?
Keep up with the course readings and pay attention to lecture.
If you're interested in music and physics without too much math this is a great course.  Take advantage of the opportunities in the final project and create something great.
It sounds interesting but it is too difficult to be worth it
Professor Heller is probably one of the smartest yet accessible and nicest peole you could mee here. His passion for the subject matter is clear and is a credit to the course. His lectures are meticulously designed, fun, he is funny adn never bore. The TF and Heller provide incredible support and are easily accessible. One never once has to feel like one is in over ones head. The material covered is easy, the mid terms are easy and the final project is fun, quick and easy. His book however is overly complex and can be a bit of a burden to read, but paying attention in lecture more than suffices to do well in the course. Great , easy, fun way to knock out the SPU requirement.
Take it if you're interested in the physics of sound.
The course deals with an interesting topic, and the demonstrations are really unparalleled. Just be aware that the demonstrations on the first day are not representative of the demos you'll see throughout the whole semester. In this class you really get the sense that you're learning a field that's not well understood in the scientific world, which is cool, but also a bit frustrating as you're tied to only the materials in this class when trying to study; other materials on acoustics are apparently too advanced mathematically/scientifically or inaccurate. Overall a decent way to fulfill the core, but you need to be interested in the topic first.
This is a stress-free class teaching interesting concepts. Oh, and it covers a Gen Ed requirement. Why would you not take this class?
Professor Heller is interesting, in-class demonstrations are phenomenal, exams cover matieral not represented in the problem sets, not a bad course but not a great course
This class is completely and totally disorganized. The textbook, lectures, lecture slides, assignments.. It's all haphazard and unhelpful. The lectures go out of order, and trying to study by looking at just the slides doesn't work (you need notes to kind of orient yourself for the lectures).There are some cool demonstrations in class, but the professor and TFs often teach as though you have basic knowledge of both physics and music, and they find it difficult to explain concepts in more basic terms. They don't give a schedule for psets, and they are also graded on what seems to be an arbitrary system ("Well, we were looking for you to answer [long complicated physics-heavy response] to this [confusing-because-they-made-the-question-with-a-very-specific-answer-in-mind] question, but no one put that down, so we didn't take off any points. [Or bother to correct you.]").Section varies a lot from TF to TF, but mine was more detrimental than helpful.
The course material was interesting and Professor Heller and the TFs were all enthusiastic about being good teachers.  The lectures often had engaging demonstrations.  But there was a disconnect between what the Professor and TFs were trying to do and what actually occurred - a lot of information was lost in translation.  There was general confusion amongst myself and my peers about the material.  However, the teaching staff was always willing to help.
This class is really interesting, especially if you are a musician. The concepts are tough sometimes but it was worth it to find out how instruments work!
This is a fun class, but after wading through the interesting experiments and enjoying the passion of the professor you will most likely find yourself confused by the material you have been asked to cover and be tested on.
The practical demonstrations are fun and it is generally a pretty laid-back class with very few assignments. However, I don't feel like I came out of the class understanding the physics of music and sound. I could not explain to someone how sound propagates or how musical instruments work.
This class is really cool and contains a series of fascinating topics and demos.  Organizationally it could use a bit of work - i.e. synthesizing section, lecture, and problem sets.  I really enjoyed the final project though over an exam.  Lecture attendance is really important because many of the midterm questions have to do with very specific points and demos done in lecture.  Problem sets could be tricky, at the beginning especially.  If you care about this topic - take it, but there are probably easier SPU gen eds if that's all you're interested in.
This was without a doubt the most poorly organized course I have ever taken at Harvard. DO NOT TAKE.
This class will give you an incredibly broad understanding of many different aspects of acoustics. Heller's a competent lecturer with a lot of useful ideas; his textbook is kind of a maze, but he has a deep love of the subject and a genuine desire to help students learn about it. Definitely a good Gen Ed for musicians and others generally interested in sound.
Are you well-versed in physics already? This might be for you. Otherwise, I'm skeptical the problems in the course structure can be overhauled quickly enough to make this anything other than a miserable, alienating experience for the average non-physics-enthusiast.
This was an EXTREMELY interesting course. Definitely meets the purpose of Gen Ed. It was pretty disorganized in the beginning because the Professor had just written this new textbook, and had revamped the course for this year. However, after some time getting used to the dynamics of the course, it became a great learning experience and I definitely had a lot of fun. I would definitely recommend it to anyone who is interested in music and how sound works.
This course needs a lot of work.
This is a good class if you genuinely want to learn what the title of the course promises to teach. If you're not a musician or interested in sound in some way and you're taking this purely as a physics gen-ed, it might not be what you're looking for.
The topic is really interesting, but the biggest thing I had a problem with in this class was its clarity.  There are a lot of components and if you don't find the lectures that easy to understand, the textbook is written in a similar style so it may not be too helpful.  That said, I did learn a lot about sound and I'm glad I took this course, but it ended up being more work than I expected (especially the homework) and I wish I had known that going in.
if you are a music person the science will be too difficult and if you are a science person the subject matter will be too boring.
Don't take this class. Terrible, terrible, terrible. The people in charge just had no idea how to teach a class.
While this class has good intentions, it's really not worth the time and effort unless you're absolutely fascinated by the topic. The problem sets expect you to learn how to use computer programs without any clear instructions, the lectures have almost no organization, and the head TF and the professor seemed to be making things up as they went along with regards to the expectations for assignments (particularly the final project). You can expect to learn all the actual concepts that will be on the exams in section. That being said, you will learn a bunch of random facts about sound that are relatively interesting.
I took this class to fulfill my SPU requirement and I honestly regret it so much. I haven't really heard great things about any SPU classes, but this is legitimately the worst class I have ever taken. All I can say is that the poor organization led to obfuscation rather than clarification of the course content. While some of my peers in this course have been ok with the poor organization because their TFs are easy graders, I also somehow managed to end up with the only TF that grades extremely harshly. I would not recommend this course to anyone.
This course is pretty good.  It has a few strengths--for me, they were the in-class demonstrations, section, final projects, and approachability of the instructors.  However, it also has a pretty unclear textbook, and the hour-and-a-half lectures dragged.  If you're a musician or have some interest in music, the concepts would be pretty interesting to you.
there is a lot of physics in the beginning and the fun parts come later in the class. In the end, i think ES50 would have been a more quantitative approach to sound and music
If you are interested in acoustics, music, or math, this class is a truly fascinating and unique blend of these concepts. The content is unlike anything else you will learn at Harvard.
This class is astonishingly poorly taught and poorly organized. The textbook is pretty much incoherent, lectures are just displays of random contraptions and/or YouTube videos, most of the difficulty in the problem sets is in figuring out how to use three different new programs every week. I got both concentration and ged ed credit for this course and it still wasn't worth it. Just don't take it. The only good news is that you get a cheat sheet for both midterms, and it's completely possible to just bullshit your way through them and the problem sets; just write something that sounds plausible and you'll get partial (if not full) credit for everything.
If possible, find another SPU class to take.  This class is not as organized as it could be, and confused me a lot of the time.
Although Professor Heller is clearly very passionate about this material and quite friendly, there are numerous organizational problems with the class that get in the way of appreciating and learning about the science of sound. Homework problems are consistently confusing and needlessly tedious, lectures often feel digressive and unfocused, sections felt like a superfluous rehashing of material that should have been taught in lecture, and teaching support for the final project was weak. There are some high points in the classcertain factoids and demonstrations were ear-openingbut on the whole, I'm pretty ambivalent.
I'm really glad there's a course like this available because acoustics is a really interesting field that you might otherwise not learn about. The professor's enthusiasm really shows and it's an enjoyable class that you should take if you like physics and music.
This class does present interesting concepts, but beware: the concepts are not explained well and require a significant amount of outside research if you actually want to understand what is going on.
It's rather poorly taught. Can't decide if it wants to require math and physics or not. Result is weird. Expect a lot of "x gets big as y gets small" kind of language.
Take it, but make sure you clarify EVERYTHING on problem sets and exams. Also, section is literally useless. But if you take it and communicate with Heller and the like, it'll be better.
Great class.
This course is a GenEd and is quite easy, however you need to study for the tests and put some work into the assignments or else you won't learn anything and may end up doing poorly. I might suggest a different GenEd for SPU if you aren't very interested in acoustics.
Don't take this class unless you have some physics background and are genuinely interested in the SCIENCE of music and sound. A lot of musicians took this class thinking it'd be a fun/easy way to fulfill a gened req, but it's not easy and it's such a specific and weird subject matter that none of your physics friends will be able to help you with psets. In class demonstrations are fun, but to be honest, I never understand why they happen and the professor doesn't do a great job explaining physics concepts to non-physics people. At the end of the day, this is a SCIENCE class, not a MUSIC class.
It's easy, but that doesn't mean you should take it.
Unless you really have a strong interest in the subject material, I wouldn't recommend taking this course. Heller's enthusiasm and emphasis on an experiential approach means that it's difficult to master the kind of concrete things you'll be asked to reproduce on a test.
Reading the book isn't the best way to the good grade, as often Heller's writing is hard to understand and he provides very little visual approximation in his text book. Read stuff outside of class and you will be fine.
If you want to learn about the physics of music and sound this class is great. It is a lot of conceptual work, without much math. Be prepared to read the textbook closely and work at it.
The subject matter is interesting, but overall this class is not well-organized. The lectures are not that engaging.
This is a very poorly organized class is a lot more science-y than it initially seems.
If you are a musician or you have a knack for understanding wave physics or calculus, you should take this course. But if you are looking for simply a Gen Ed to fulfill the physics requirement, this is not at all the course for you. It was tedious and confusing, and I was lost most of the time because the topics we were learning are not heavily researched topics. This meant that the answer to most questions was "we don't really know" or "what do you think?" which felt very frustrating for me.
This class is a mess. That said, you will eventually learn many fundamental principles of waves and sound. Unfortunately, it will require you to wade through a lot of badly presented material and nonsense.
Be prepared to be confused and frustrated with unclear information.
It has potential to be a wonderful, exciting, informative class. Right now, it's being taught at a level too high for a Gen Ed class. Not enough time is spent helping us with the homework, so we don't have the tools to understand the grander topics covered in lecture. We are told time and time again that the information we learn in this class is "intuitive." Maybe it was for them, but it was not for me, and the amount of hours I spent doing the homework in this class was something I was totally not expecting out of a Gen Ed. The homework wouldn't have taken so long if we had gone over in section how to approach these problems, and most importantly, how to use the apps. For the longest time, I didn't know how to use the apps, and I did not feel welcome from my section leader to go over every single one with him. Professor Heller, it turns out, is the person to ask for help with the apps, which I didn't discover until half the semester had passed and I had already dug myself into a hole in the class. Section should be spent going over how to do the homework and how to use the apps, because if you can't make the apps work, you can't do the homework, and you can't understand the concepts that the homework problem was supposed to teach.
Take something else--I wish I had.
Avoid this class if possible, although its terribleness is similarly equivalent to other terrible SPU classes. The textbook is poorly written, lectures are barely organized, tests cover random material, and is definitely not an easy SPU. The concepts are not difficult to understand, but they are hardly taught and the assignments diverge greatly from what is taught in lecture. Do not take if possible.
Take science of cooking or a real physics course if you are so inclined.
This class was a fantastic SPU. It's largely based on independent, self-driven work, which is different than most other classes at Harvard. I really enjoyed it!
Anyone with interest in music or waves in matter will be delighted by Heller's course.
Shop it, lecture is something, but assignments are low
Not the greatest class I've taken at Harvard  Heller is disorganized and classes seem like a drag. I enjoyed a few moments though, because there were relevant to my interests.
Professor Heller is dedicated to revealing truths about the physical environment in lucid, methodical style.  Each of his lectures illustrated a fascinating and unexpected aspect of the behavior of sound.  He illuminates all aspects of the course material with numerous audio-visual and mathematical models, many of which, such as the Falstad Java applets, simulate the behavior of sound pressure waves in real time.  The course takes a manageable pace and reviews key concepts with convenient regularity, while never failing to make new observations about how the phenomena studied apply to our familiar environs.  Professor Heller gladly fields questions during lecture and addresses them with patience and curiosity.  The course requires minimal work outside of class, which leaves students free to pursue studies at the behest of their own curiosity.  The section component is interesting but not as strong as the lecture component.   This course will greatly expand the curious student's understanding of the physical environment.
The teaching team is spectacular, with Professor Heller heading the course and constantly bringing his expertise, concrete knowledge, and cognizance of expert opinions in the world of sound to each and every class. Danny is creative and basically a sound and instrument virtuoso who offers an equally interesting but complementary opinion. Wolf is always curious and is the mad scientist of the class who puts on all the demonstrations.
Heller is a luminary professor who is kind enough to share his wisdom with others.
Light workload course with interesting lecture and section material. If you want something more intense and fulfilling look elsewhere. There is a project which can be cool if you make it, but often it is difficult to get a strong experiment or study to work based on sound since it is a fickle medium.
This is a very easy class. You get out what you put in.
This is a gem. The best SPU class that is offered. You will never find another class like this at Harvard.
This class is the most disorganized class I've ever taken at Harvard. The only thing that matters is the final project and I worked on it in the last few days of reading period. Section? Total waste of time. Lectures? I wasted my time going, but enjoyed some of the demos. Heller is a smart guy but the TF's didn't seem to care much about the class. Overall, I didn't do any work for this class nearly the whole entire semester and just put out a final project that was pretty cool because one person in our group had done some previous work. Easy class, but really, REALLY, boring.
It's a good GenEd course and you get from it what you put in. Pay attention to the lectures. You won't be tested on what you learn from it, but it's just really interesting stuff.
Super chill class where you just spend the whole time learning Eric's material but you are never tested on it.  You work in groups on one final project about sound that includes experiments and small writing assignments, culminating in a final paper.
Huge GEM. However, this still means you should take the project seriously.
Take this class if you are good with projects
It's a fun and chill class where you learn a lot about sound.
It is a very low commitment class with little to no work but the project that is due at the end of the semester definitely requires more time and effort. I enjoyed working on the project/experiment but the class was a little too disorganized for us to properly execute everything we wanted. I would consider looking into another class to fulfill your SPU requirement but it is a very easy course
It is an extremely easy class, with lectures mostly containing curiosities that you get to explore independently. It is important to find a sonic project that you really like in the beginning, or else the course will not be very fun for you.
If you want to learn anything dont take this class.
Course is extremely disorganized. Lectures were often boring or hard to follow, particular given that the course assumes no previous knowledge of its subject. Backbone of course is the idea of performing an experiment with a group and writing a paper, which in theory is cool but felt poorly executed, as most people did not seemed very engaged.
The class was well taught and it is easy on the heart for midterms weeks and finals weeks because the work is done in class and it's all towards a paper, no cramming for a test.
Be prepared to work on project throughout semester and participate.
This class is a great way to learn how to develop a project from scratch. Learning how to process sound is the best way of understanding how sound actually works.
This course is a great opportunity to learn in a non-pressure environment about psychoacoustics, something that not many people think about but is fascinating.  However, because the course is essentially based only on the final project, you have to be disciplined and find group members who are willing to put in the work throughout the semester in a balanced way.  Otherwise, things will be hectic at the end.
The course matter is super interesting. You can make of this class whatever you want it to be.
This is a great course, but just know that the whole thing is structured around a group project that is due during finals period. Anyone who has done group projects likely knows the pain associated with coordinating people during group projects. Just know that this class is no different. In fact, it's probably the most stressful group project I have ever been a part of (because it is worth so much of the grade). Set deadlines within your group and meet early and often. It's easy to kick things down the road because people are busy. People are always going to be busy.That being said, definitely take this course if you're looking for a good SPU.
I would recommend this course to a student looking for a low-stress way to get rid of their SPU requirement. I would not recommend this course to a student looking for an engaging scientific experience.
If you're considering taking a gen-ed, take this one. This isn't a class where the teaching staff will be constantly testing you, checking up on whether you've memorised stuff you'll inevitably forget after the course etc. The whole class is centred around research, so whatever seems interesting to you, you can do actual research on. For anyone who finds that an interesting thing to do, yet doesn't want to commit to a lifetime of natural sciences, this is a unique opportunity.
Take time to read the textbook and complete the problem sets.  These are the most useful in helping to understand the material. Also, definitely explore the applets etc. that are available/suggested.  They are interesting and very helpful.
This course is awesome, the homework isn't too difficult, and the professor moves at a reasonable pace.  It is a good intro to an interesting topic.
Professor Heller is the BOMB and mad nice!
If you have some background in physics (even at the high school level) and a good head for this kind of stuff, the class is fairly easy and the material is fascinating (some of the results are a bit counterintuitive). If you're a musician who wants to know more about your craft, definitely take this class.
it's fantastically interesting! Physics is the complete opposite of what I consider my forte of understanding, but working through these PSETs in discussion with my TF was fantastically interesting.
If you're really interested in studying music and sound from a physical perspective, then this course will probably interest you. If you're not, it probably won't.
This course was amazing. The lectures are interesting and filled with experiments. The Problem Sets are sometimes difficult but they really help you learn about sound. Also the final project is a great way to make your own lab and truly discover something on your own. I would highly recommended this course to anyone who likes music and/or science as it will open your eyes and ears to how much is going on around you everyday.
