This is a great class, especially if you are curious about technology's role in society. What's more, this class convinces you that you should be (curious)!
This is a great course if you want to be familiar with the basics of physics and information technology, and the topics we cover are pretty current and applicable.  But don't expect to get too in-depth into any one topic -- I would call this course more of a "survey" course.
GREAT CLASS!! Professor is amazing and generates enthusiasm for the material. not very difficult at all.  great class to take for the SPU requirement.
Don't waste your time on doing lengthy readings that will never be tested and are covered in lecture anyway. The material of the course is great for a GenEd. Problem sets will have questions you have never seen or done before. They will give you no practice materials for tests or exams, other than rereading lecture slides.
The section leaders I had were rather impatient with students, and it was clear that they didn't really want to be there teaching basic concepts to humanities/social sciences concentrators.   Venky and Sam are great.  If you treat this like a real class, not just a throw-away Gen Ed, then you'll do very well.
The professor and TFs love the material they are teaching and try to make the information and themselves as accessible as possible. Be sure you have a strong knowledge of all of the material for the exams though because they can be a bit tricky.
This is a great gen ed course. the material is very interesting and useful for everyday life.
Take this class. It's a great Science-A that does not demand that much out of you. If you are not into doing math/hard science, but still want to have a rewarding class, this is for you. Venky and the TF's generate a lot of enthusiasm for the material and will always be there to help you. TAKE THIS CLASS.
Its an easy and interesting class if you are looking for an easy way to fulfill an SPU
Professor Venky is the man! He has a passion for teaching and really cares about his students. It is extremely easy, and although they grade tough sometimes, it is worth the stress you save. Although it often feels like an 8th grade physics class, it is interesting to look at technology in new ways.
This class is an awesome way to fulfill SPU!  Prof. Venky and the TFs are so enthusiastic and so dedicated to improving the class and responding to student feedback (they fixed a lot of the issues mentioned in last year's CUE, so they'll likely change things in response to this year's too).  Physics can be daunting, but this class truly was an introductory survey - the science was never too complicated and it was generally well-explained.  It's also neat to figure out how things like car engines and the Internet work.  I imagine this class will only get better in the future - this was only its second year - so definitely shop it!
Pretty painless and well organized gen ed class. The professor is passionate about the subject, as are the TFs. The exams largely come from the lecture slides.
I was expecting a disaster, but it turned out great.  The class presents interesting and useful information about the ways in which technology and society are interrelated.  The science and math involved are very basic and easy to understand.  The problem sets take longer that you might expect, but they are pretty simple overall.  Basically, if you need to fulfill a requirement you should take this class, especially if you concentrate in one of the humanities.
This is the most painless way imaginable for someone who doesn't "get" science or math to satisfy their SPU requirement. Plus, I feel like I actually learned useful and important things. A good course to take if you're physics-phobic but want to learn something.
This class is perfect to fill a GenEd requirement if you know very little about math or science. My entire section was all Psych/History/English concentrators
The course focuses heavily on the social aspect of societal problems, however, the exams are difficult and unfair in the sense that they focus more on the natural science side. Much more so than the class did. Additionally, the weekly assignments take a lot of time and require a lot of writing.
Great enthusiasm from the teaching staff, but be ready for disorganization and changing / unclear expectations.
Don't take it!  It's a stupid class that doesn't teach you anything; the TFs are contemptuous and although Venky is enthusiastic and sweet, his lectures impart barely any useful knowledge
As a first-time class, I think there are definitely some kinks that need to be worked out.  However, if you're looking for a Science A that is not too "physics-y", this is the perfect class for you.  There is actually very little computation involved, and the concepts are not beyond the oblivious humanities concentrator.
This class was terribly organized.  If you study social sciences, be prepared to have your math and science intelligence insulted during every class.  Venky is super nice but thinks that math (meaning multiplication) is hard for social scientists.  You will learn extremely little physics.
This course is on a really fascinating subject, and I got a lot out of what I learned. Being a new course, however, a lot of administrative problems need to be worked out before I would feel comfortable telling my friends to take it.
A class with phenomenal potential for future iterations.  It was clear that this was the first year in which this course had been taught.  That said, Venky's enthusiasm is second to none, and the material is super-interesting.  One of the few physics classes in which you actually think about the concepts behind the numbers you are calculating.  Did you know that a cookie has more energy than a stick of TNT?
This is a great way to fill the Science A/SPU core/gen ed requirement, especially for those of us who are quantitatively challenged. The subject matter is both fascinating and highly relevant.
The organization of this course is poor and lectures do not get the main mathematical/scientific points across. More time needs to be devoted to explaining the science.
The class was interesting and helped me to see technology and society in a new way so it is definitely worth taking. However, the amount of time and energy the course required seemed to exceed what i was getting out of it.
Good if you don't want to learn too much science.
A little disorganized; probably will be better in its 2nd year. Has a lot of potential to be a great course.
This class looks good on paper--and the syllabus looks great--but the class itself suffered from terrible teaching.
This class seemed extremely interesting at first, but in the end, it did not turn out to be what I expected. The test and case studies are graded extremely hard without much explanation about why you got the grade you got. You have to do readings for the class but they are not incorporated in the class but you are tested on them. This class tries too hard to incorporate science and social science, and it makes the class disorganized.
It's a good intro to technology. Not very hard if you really think about the topics from a social science perspective. I was a little reluctant to take this class because of the physics, but they really make it as bearable as possible.
The class was very unsatisfactory not because it was too difficult or time-consuming, but because the professor, while very enthusiastic, and the teaching staff seemed to want to trick students on psets and exams. I didn't appreciate that failings of the course were attributed to the students' lack of attention or effort rather than pedagogical sloppiness ("A lot of people got this exam question wrong... didn't you realize that X, Y, and Z which we never discussed or only tangentially discussed in class or section and was not in any of your readings!?")
The material is interesting (or at least you'll definitely find parts interesting), Venky is great, etc.  But also that the homeworks will be of inconsistent difficulty and method, and the group projects might be a bit time-consuming...
Although the material was very interesting and applicable, it was not taught in a very interesting or informative way.
This course will expose you to a wide array of issues from electricity to climate change to alternative vehicles to internet architecture; and help you to talk about them intelligently. The group assignments were interesting and facilitated collaboration; although they came at short notice. You will learn a lot about how technology and society interact. Lecture slides are organized, and posted regularly, even though you will have to comb through them to find the most interesting parts; sometimes they're all-over-the-place. The blog idea was innovative; each class would start with student posts discussing current issues about the relevance of technology to our daily lives. Make sure you get a good section leader; that's a huge part of how you'll do in the course, and I was unlucky. Make sure you're consistent with the readings and seek help when you need it; I should have gone to office hours more. I do caution that this course was quite disorganized and unruly. It was very ambitious with the agenda it set out for itself. There were group projects, many readings, and weekly assignments, in addition to module tests. Consider whether you want to spend this time on the material. It is, however, a very interesting class and I am taking major concepts away in my understanding of the world.
It's a mix of random topics, pretty interesting but frequently lacking substance. Psets are essays, so you will definitely do better if you are a good writer and a skillful BSer.
Professor Venky is a very poor lecturer, with what appears to be a very crude understanding of the most basic scientific concepts that he struggles to teachThis should be more of a discussion driven course, as one might expect at HBS, given the topics the class focuses on. Less emphasis of basic high school science equations and more focus on social implications of technologies, or some of the emerging technologies out there (this was only mentioned in the last week).What this course is described as in the catalog and what it ended up being were two very different things
I took this class thinking that I would be taking a GenEd fitted toward non-science/math concentrators, and that I would learn a lot yet be able to do well relatively easily. This class tries to take on too much of a broad approach, and in return I barely learn anything. Lectures were less about content than just a discussion of some topic (although Prof. Venky is awesome), and sections were completely pointless--it may have just been my TF but I absolutely learned NOTHING from section, and the only reason it was helpful at times was because I would specifically ask questions. There is no preparation at all for tests, and the essay questions are completely reading based and a little absurd. The tests are graded by all the TFs and the grading is so ambigous...for one TF I got a full 5-10 points higher than another, and on some questions I would get 9/9 points when it was a 10 point questions, or just a check...it was horrible grading and to this day I still don't really know what my real score was. There are much better SPU gened courses out there. This is still too young of a course.
Stay away. In all facets of this course. Just don't do it.
The content in this course is great and you'll definitely learn about a wide range of topics in technology; the course itself, and particularly the TFs, was quite unorganized this year, so I'd be careful about that. Though tests and assignments are not too demanding, the test problems are often ambiguous, as is the grading, which made it frustrating. Otherwise, attending lectures are really enjoyable, and it's easy to engage with Prof Venky in class
This course required a surprising amount of attention and time. The material is engaging, and it is presented well - but there is a lot of it, and the exams could be particularly demanding. I also felt the teaching staff could be inconsiderate at times, even annoyed at student feedback. Overall, this is probably one of the more interesting gen-eds, but I imagine it requires more than the others.
Make sure you have great time management skills, because this course is sometimes a time crunch. This class has great potential but it could stand to be a little more organized. Still better than any of the other SPUs you'll take with the exception of Primitive Navigation.
Do not take this course. While it may have an interesting title and seemingly engaging material, the actual course does not come close to reaching its potential.
You will learn how transformers and generators work. You will love the textbook readings. You will know what to do when you become a future president.
It's a terribly run class. Venky is enthusiastic but it is poorly organized so it's still pretty chaotic. The TFs are terrible, except for Tolu, and are very unenthusiastic, clueless, or crazy.
The idea of this class is great - basic science and physics for non-science concentrators. The modules do not always make sense (why is security grouped with light and refraction?), but they're a good way to provide a broad overview in just one semester. That said, this class is pretty disorganized, and because of the breadth of the material, the material is really superficial and the TFs don't have uniformly strong grasps of all the different topics.
It offers a great introduction to engineering and science and its interplay with society.
This course is a great way to fulfill the SPU elective since it is both relevant to the real-world issues in science as well as educational without being unduly challenging. I think that most students would appreciate the enthusiasm of the lecturer and teaching fellows, who place a premium on the education of the students. Overall, it is a course that is eye-opening and sometimes even steps across the threshold of fun. I would highly recommend this class to anyone looking to painlessly fulfill a Gen. Ed requirement. Be informed that the projects and problem sets may take more time than you may originally anticipate.
A must take course for future presidents!
This is a somewhat painless way to take care of the SPU Gen Ed requirement. The teaching staff is very helpful, and the materials are interesting.
Pretty interesting material. At times the course tried to bite off more than it could chew leaving it with no real coherent direction.
Although the subject matter could be (and sometimes is) interesting, the disorganization of the class makes its very unpleasant. It would be difficult for me to imagine a more poorly run class, and this affects your experience in the class more than you would think. Exams were returned without grades. My TF returned assignments an average of 5 weeks after they were turned in. All of these factors made it impossible to know your grade or even vaguely guess how you were doing in the class. Section consisted of the TF re-reading the lecture slides, which was entirely unhelpful. The professor and TFs completely ignored the syllabus. Half of the assignments were either not given or given at different times than listed. The module tests were way too long and time-pressured to be an accurate assessment of your knowledge. Overall, I am incredibly frustrated with this class. It had the potential to be very interesting and engaging but needs a major overhaul in terms of organization and section planning.
I learned a lot about technology that I had hoped to learn, but we just couldn't cover everything that I had wanted to. Section and assignments at times seemed a little disorganized, but the teaching staff was a great group and if you make time to engage with them, it will be a solid class. If you plan to slack off and skip lecture, show up to section late and leave early, and half-arse the assignments you will hate this course. But if you have a genuine interest in Venky's sincere dedication to these important topics, you will love it.
The class is very interesting and I loved lectures because we discussed current events and applied easy physics concepts. However, the material discussed in lecture did not relate to tests. The information presented is a very shallow view of physics to account for the fact that not many people who take the course are science/math concentrators.
This course at times can teach you interesting things, but overall it is not worth it. The course is extremely unorganized. There is zero coordination among the TFs and course heads. The assignments are poorly written and vague. The exam questions are tedious and make you dod umb things like explain your multiple choice answers. Its just a bad random course.
Have a physics background and be flexible with the unorganized lectures/sections of the class.
SPU 24 is not the easiest way to fulfill an SPU requirement, but you will have the opportunity to interact with some superstar faculty while exploring truly fascinating questions around the relationship between technology and society.  As with most SPUs, people with solid science backgrounds won't have any trouble with this class.
This course is an interesting introduction to many issues that are relevant to your own life and to the future of the country. However, if you are a humanities concentrator, please understand that this may be a difficult experience. The instructors only spend the briefest of time actually teaching the physics they expect you to know, so you will often be left trying to teach it to yourself, with unfortunate results. My TF was extremely helpful and sweet, but still didn't make up for the rest of the experience.
Definitely take this class. It has been one of my favorite classes I have ever taken and actually is relevant to the world around us. It made me think critically about a variety of topics and the teaching staff was amazing and always willing to help.
Nice, fun, accessible class! Probably the best SPU gen ed for humanities/science people.
This class is definitely a SPU gem if you are lucky enough to make the lottery. No lab, reading isn't too intense, three separate non-cumulative exams and a couple of group projects. They really try to make the math and science easy for you and emphasize the importance of conceptual learning over accuracy, which is nice, but can also make you feel like you aren't learning much real science. The best part of the class focuses on info tech and cybersecurity and gives you tools to think about current NSA debates critically. The teaching staff is also incredibly friendly and helpful! Take this class if you want a pretty easy gen ed and fairly interesting material, but not if you would actually like to take away some real physics knowledge from your SPU.
This is the ideal SPU for people who are social science-minded. Venky is a truly kind professor and is convinced that we're all future CEOs or Presidents, and as such wants to make things relevant to those kinds of people, not scientists.
It's better than the other SPU options it sounds like.  It's not all that well organized, but I learned a lot of cool things.
The material is interesting but the lectures can either be too quick to keep with unfamiliar concepts (for me it was the material on coding/internet) or they can go by very slowly. Make sure to add articles to the blog.
This class is very interesting, particularly for the social science-minded, and provides a relevant overview of many fascinating and pressing issues of today. Prof Venky is very enthusiastic! Some technical concepts can be difficult to grasp in lecture, but the TFs are very helpful in explaining concepts in section and are always willing to meet with students. The two group projects can be difficult, but the exams are manageable.
This class was a very positive experience. The TFs and professor were very passionate about the subject matter and tried very hard so that students could understand it. If you're at all interested in technology or the social sciences, this is a great course to take.
If you do not have a strong mathematical or physics background and wish to take a very relevant and interesting course to satisfy the SPU requirement, I highly recommend this course! Professor Venky is a very talented lecturer and really tries to ensure that all students understand the concepts of the course and that what is learned about in the course relates to students forming their own opinions on emerging technology issues. The teaching staff of teaching fellows of Kavita, Ryan, and Joakim are all incredibly knowledgable and great teachers to help assist with any questions on course material!
It is not very difficult and the material is interesting. Lectures can sometimes be boring because they can be more technical than what they end up asking on the exam. Section is really good because they go over exactly what you need to know.
Definitely a good class to fulfill the SPU requirement with.  Very doable workload and helpful teaching staff.  The group projects can get pretty tedious, but nothing unmanageable.
This class is the BEST way to fulfill the SPU requirement without pain!! I'm talking to you humanities people - the TFs and professor are so passionate and supportive, they will get you through the science stuff! You will learn a lot about the world in general and actually be able to apply it all to real life!
It gets the job done for a GenEd. Some of the topics are interesting and the teaching staff is accessible/helpful.
This class is ok, but the work is very annoying. It felt like a lot of busywork. Also, group papers are the worst thing in the world. 2 of the most stressful times for me this entire semester were when I had group papers for this class and my groupmates were not very reliable. That being said, I think they do a good job teaching the material and that they do teach material that is worth learning.
This was my SPU, senior spring. Here's what I'll say: if you have the opportunity (it's heavily lotteried, and will probably continue to be), you should take it. Whether for SPU, or just because it's a highly interesting and relevant course. The readings and the things you're learning about and discussing are interesting and are important things you need to understand about the world today. The workload is not too bad and grading not too harsh, although some of the assignments are a pain. The one thing I really didn't like (which didn't keep me from giving a "recommend with enthusiasm") was lectures. They got quite monotonous and boring at many points, and annoyingly failed to allow discussion. I felt that the course should ACTUALLY be more discussion-based. It purports to be, but it sometimes felt like the TF's were more interested in saying something intelligent and interesting than in actually fostering discussion among students. And that the Prof. was most interested in getting through his presentation. I think that the teaching portion is very important, it just seemed like we missed out on a huge opportunity to discuss the important issues we were learning about so that we could learn more. I think both are important. But it felt like the discussion was really missing.That said, this has been one of my favorite Gen Ed's. I know that I'll use what I learned in the course, at the very least, to inform my understanding of technology and society.
Fairly easy, teaching staff is incredibly nice, not a great class, but not bad either
I really enjoyed this class.  I enjoyed the combination of (relatively easy) physics and math with social concerns and real-world applications.  It tries to balance the technical with the societal and I think it does a good job.  Frankly I think it should count for SPU or US and the World.  You need to be at least a little interested in both to enjoy this class and a decent background in at least one is helpful.  Note: I'm coming in with a good high school physics background and a strong math background.  Note: previous Q scores suggest that this class does not work with an enrollment of above 30 students.
This is a great SPU class for people who concentrate in humanities/sociology/social sciences!
I already have. I'm pretty I've convinced at least three other people to take this class. I loved this class and it is the perfect SPU gen ed for government concentrators.
If you want an interdisciplinary, enjoyable course (in which you learn a lot about life in general), then take this course. If you want a star-studded panel of TFs and professors across many different disciplines then take this course.
