very unorganized and boring
This is an easy class. Take it to fulfill your Science of the Physical Universe requirement without breaking a sweat, at all! Oh, and bring your fully charged laptop to keep yourself busy with emails while the Professor goes on. Don't think you'll feel guilty about it; the only people paying attention will be your TFs! Still, you'll love it because it's so easy :)
It was supposed to be easy, the year prior to me 80% of people got an A or A-. However, the year I took it the course was sloppy and the coursework was harder, seemingly to curb success in the class. The course is too unpredictable. If you can find a concrete way to get homework answers early on then take it. If not don't.
Don't take it.
Very boring class and you do not learn much
This course provides a great introduction to the energy dilemma and possible solutions to the dilemma. The course material is interesting and relevant.
The course is a very good introduction to the major energy issues today. One of the best parts was a guest lecture by Prof. Baker from HBS, who headed the Fox Island Wind Project. I recommend going to Prof. McElroy's office hours and talking to him about topics that interest you, especially around the midterm/final paper time.
This is a SPU class with no labs, no tests, and weekly problem sets. You have two papers instead of the examinations which are fairly graded. Having said this, the lectures are long, painfully boring, and misguided at times. Also the problem sets can be difficult. Sometimes the questions on the psets are poorly written and can lead to hours of frustration.
If the requirements are the same, just papers no test.  Do it, especially if you suck at science. It's boring, but you can deal with it.  If you like energy it's good too.
You learn a lot of very important information but the problem sets are frustrating because the material covered in them is useless.
This course teaches everything you know to form your own opinions on recent energy issues.
This class is really, really easy. You don't need to read the book, pay attention in lecture or section to do well.
good class, easy
great class if you are interested in energy and energy policy
Easy, but boring, almost painfully so at times. Closest class to a gut I have taken at Harvard.
Easy way to knock out the Science of the Physical Universe Gen Ed requirement if you're not a science/quant person.
There should be more structure to this course.  Professor McElroy is a dry, boring speaker and lectures did not spark my interest in the subject. SPU is a painful GenEd requirement and I suppose this course is the best way to fulfill it; however, it was a waste of a credit at Harvard. I learned the most in this course by researching and writing for the two papers.
This class needs a serious fix. It's bad, but not necessarily anyone's fault. The professor and the TFs mean well, but none of the elements of the class fit together. I learned absolutely nothing. There was little incentive. The lectures were not stimulating.
Very easy course. Minimal readings and homework. Professor often goes off on tangents but is an approchable person with a great deal of insight and knowledge about the subject matter. Overall, course was enjoyable and involved little stress.
This is a good primer on an important topic for the world's future.
The workload for this class is very manageable-- weekly problem sets, the choice of a midterm exam or paper, and a final paper. It was my main reason for taking this class. The subject matter is very interesting, but unfortunately it isn't taught in the best way.
pretty painless way to fulfill SPU, but you also won't learn much if you don't put in the effort
It is a good way to satisfy your science a requirement. You will learn useful knowledge applicable in the realms of public policy and economics and you will gain some scientific basis for the subject of energy.
You'll get the whole scope of the energy challenge in the class.  It's not difficult, and the assignments are very manageable.  Reading is helpful but not entirely necessary.  McElroy is an interesting guy to know.
This class is one of the most mismanaged classes that I have ever taken at Harvard. Lectures were mind-numbingly boring, not to mention that they an absolute rip-off from the textbook and had no connection what so ever to the p-sets. Sections were useless considering that only one tf out of five actually has a basic understanding and command of english. This class was billed as one that would at least spark some kind of interest in energy. It didnt. Not for me or for any of my friends and classmates who took this class. I would avoid taking this class until it is fundamentally reshaped.
You should not take this class. It's not very interesting, the problem sets are difficult and time-consuming but you don't learn much from them. The class doesn't involve a lot of work, but lectures are boring and you don't learn much in them and you have to go because they take attendance and use clickers. There are better ways to fulfill the SPU requirement and to learn about energy issues than taking this class.
This class is very easy and requires very little time. Lectures are extremely dry and boring. Problem sets can be tricky, but overall are not much trouble. There are no exams. Only two short papers. If you are trying to just painlessly fulfill a core, it isn't too bad, but I would recommend taking something else - it would be time better spent. Class is very poorly organized.
Easy way to fulfill the gen ed requirement, especially if you get a study group together to work on p-sets.
The course is kinda brutal, but its not a bad way to get a Science core out of the way. There is no lab, little work, and you don't have to read really
Very straightforward class and you would have to try really hard to get worse grade than A-
You learn a ton about the real energy problems that face the world.
This course was very interesting, providing a very comprehensive view of the issues surrounding the global energy situation and possible means of resolution.  At the same time, the course did not demand excessive knowledge of the technical side of things which might have otherwise detracted from students' learning.
An interesting and manageable class.
Don't make stupid mistakes in this class - no one else will.
Take this class to fill a requirement. You learn good basics about energy with minimal effort.
I took this class because I was very interested in the course material and wanted to get an introduction to some of the science/mechanics behind the energy issues we face today.  I ended up being disappointed by some of the lectures (they should have been faster moving or shorter) but was very pleased with the usefulness of the sections and overall easiness of the course. Great way to get a general knowledge of energy if you're not a science person.
It's a fairly painless way of fulfilling the SPU requirement if you're not a fan of physics.  The lectures sometimes feel a little tedious, but the professor is really a good guy.  Also, the stuff you learn in this class is very relevant and you'll feel like you're actually learning something useful.
The course is not meant to test you or push you. McElroy really does just want you to be interested and take away whatever you find intriguing, so keep that in mind and think about the issues more deeply than just to look for the answers.
The course material is very interesting and in the end I felt like I understood the material very well, but there are still hitches in this course that need to be worked out before it will run totally smoothly.
Skim the readings at most.
- Interesting material that is doable, especially for students who are not cut out for Science A.
Take it!
Easy and surprisingly interesting
It's a great course and a fun way to knock off the Sci-A (or whatever it is now) requirement.
Very good class to get a general understanding of the environmental issues.
Easy core but boring.
The content is very interesting, and if you want to get much out of it, you can. The course as it is now does not add too much beyond the book, but the book does add a lot. For a Science course it is low on the science and high on the social/historical/policy context, which is great for a Social Studies person like me but may not be for those looking for more hard science.
fun, not terribly hard, informative
Interesting, relevant, and easy class. Teaches you how to think critically and intelligently about our energy usage from all sources, which I feel every good citizen should be informed of. Good book (albeit it is fraught with typos), but lectures are pretty repetitive/boring since the professor wrote the book.
It's easy, but beware of what you're getting yourself into. Lectures are incoherent and rambling, needless accumulations to the professor's book. The subject matter is interesting, but it is presented dully. But still it does fulfill your SPU requirement.All in all, then, it's a much easier SPU pill to swallow once you start skipping lectures.
Very informative, completely painless
All in all a good way to satisfy a core, but a very peculiar science class that doesn't entirely hold together.
The problem sets are a very helpful study tool.
If they change the book and make common section materials (vs some sections being great, others not) then you should think about taking this. Otherwise it's a huge fustercluck.
Very little effort required but very dry. Good way to get out of a Science-A if you're not a science person. Hopefully will be better organized next year.
Great way to fulfill a Science A or the GenEd equivalent. Painless.
If you are not good at math and science but are interested in energy, this is a good course to take. If you have a strong physics/math background, you will find this course too easy.
It's a pretty painless Science-A, but it can be boring.
I would recommend not enrolling in the class because the problem sets are unbearable.  Just go to the lectures, because they are very good and always interesting.
If you are not science-oriented and are looking for a course that will stimulate your intellectual-curiosity to relevant issues today, this course is for you. The topic was sufficiently engaging to make me want to work on problem sets, to explore paper topic ideas with enthusiasm, and to pursue certain ideas about energy use, climate change, and much more in greater detail. I am glad that the course not only provided me with a background about the current state of energy sources today, but imbued me with the intellectual curiosity and concern to pursue these issues with greater ardor for the future.
Very straightforward class. Lecture isn't terribly fascinating or important, but you know exactly what you need to know and the problem sets and assignments are legitimate. Great way to fulfill the core/gen ed.
This is the best SPU class ever. Being a social science person, I learned so much from this class. It's really fun and relaxing, but you learn so so much. Prof McElroy is awesome and TF Junling is the bomb. Take this class!
This class was probably the easiest class I have taken at Harvard. Then again, I am an environmental engineer and somehow got this to count for my secondary, so it is somewhat my area of expertise.
If this course continues to be organized around two 90-minute lectures, I would encourage you to approach this course with extreme caution. While Professor McElroy's book and section excellent on the whole, the current lecture design does little to advance understanding or challenge students. Choose another SPU.
This is the worst course I've taken at Harvard.  The teaching staff assumed we had background knowledge that we didn't always have and we jumped back and forth very quickly from specific calculations to attempts to discuss the "big picture" implications of energy and climate change, which was very disorienting.  The only thing that made it bearable was the fact that I had a great TF (Mary).  The course wasn't organized particularly well, nor did it really make the material accessible and relevant.  We were also assigned the worst textbook I've ever read.
Super easy if you have any math experience or are relatively well-informed about the current climate crisis. The material isn't particularly well-integrated; the policy part and science part of the class just feel very disjointed.
This class is what a gen. ed. is supposed to be. You will learn well-versed about the subject if you put in the time and effort. Even if you only put in minimal effort, you'll learn enough not to waste a Harvard class here.
Lectures and readings in this class were very dry and boring, but somewhat paradoxically the subject matter was interesting, and I did learn a fair amount about the current energy/climate situation.  The homework and reading don't take too much time, and the exams are fair.
Despite the relevant subject matter on climate change and global warming, I found this course to be lacking in several areas.  The professor and my TF were not engaging, the textbook had several mistakes as well as a Wikipedia citation, and the book, lecture, and section taught the same information 3x in a row each week.  If you want to take an engaging, exciting course for your SPU gen-ed requirement, this is definitely not the class.
If it were reorganized this class would be really good.
This class is very interesting, just make sure to keep up with the lectures and get a good TF.
- This course is somewhat equivalent to AP environmental science. Students who have already taken AP environmental science will find the course quite basic.- Lecture tended to move slowly. Much time was spent on seemingly irrelevant material (the history of the crusades, the history of 17th century ethanol)- Lecture material is not covered on the test. The test covers section and psets. - Instructor has deep knowledge in field, but you get the sense that you aren't benefiting from it at all--course is very basic.- No pre-reqs!I think this course is probably best seen as a study in the problems of Gen Eds at Harvard. You take incredibly brilliant and overqualified people, and make them teach a class on stuff high schoolers would find straightforward. This goes a long way towards ensuring that no prior knowledge is required. But in diluting the rigor, you really lose a lot of potential to learn.
This is an easy class however the lectures are very boring and the course material can seem pretty irrelevant. The professor is also very boring however attending section is a good way to figure out what the class is all about.
This course is pretty painless in terms of accomplishing your SPU (especially as a non-science concentrator). The lectures and readings, however, are extremely difficult to get through and could make the experience a difficult one.
This is a class about everything from history of the world through chemistry and to physics, but none of it is taught properly or taken seriously.
Boring. But relatively painless. Easy exams.
Professor McElroy is a dry lecturer, the book is not very good, and half of the TFs don't speak very good English. With that being said, if you are interested in the material, this is a great class, as you truly get a full overview of the modern energy industry and climate change issues.
The class covers very important material and all the problem sets are very relevant and educational. If you focus, you'll learn a lot and things would be very interesting. However, lectures could be a little dry. Expectations for the class need to be set a little more carefully--too many changes without consistency, especially in material on the exams.
Fairly easy course, but lectures can be boring.
There's no denying it - this is an easy course. The workload is extremely light (just a problem set each week and then a totally manageable midterm and final that you don't even need to study for if you're content with a B+ or A- and maybe even if you're hoping for an A), which makes it perfect for a Gen Ed that you don't really want to take. The lecture videos are also taped, so you almost need to do nothing for this course. That said, it was unsatisfying for me to feel like I didn't learn much (I got by with slacking off, and given that I am a senior with 5 courses, I took advantage of that). Not intellectually satisfying.
Very easy.  One problem set a week, one midterm, one final.
The material in the class is very interesting. The lectures tend to be boring. If Mary Moore is still a TF in the class you should definitely try to be in her section.
Interesting material, but to enjoy the class you must really have an interest in the topics, otherwise it may seem boring.
Very basic overview of energy world.
It is not very exciting, but the material you do learn about energy is practical.
Take this class if you want to take the easiest class you have ever taken
It is a really good way to fulfill SPU; it's interesting, relevant to the world today, and accessible in terms of course material. The grading and examinations are very fair, with an emphasis on conceptual learning and reasoning. Lectures were a bit dull, however, and sections were variable in their usefulness.
The problem sets were very easy - if you can convert units you can take this course. The only difficulty is the few multiple choice questions on exams that refer to a specific line in the book that you may have only skimmed by once. Other than that, if you can make it through the lectures it's a very easy course.
A little unorganized, but you do learn a lot of interesting information. Lectures move a little slowly though, so get coffee beforehand. Worth taking if you're a forgiving student.
it's not as easy as you think. you actually have to have a pretty good chem/physics/math background
unorganized, boring lectures
This class is a great way to properly understand the issue that is at hand with Global warming. The pro's and con's and the opinions of experts.
Excellent survey of current global energy use and how to transition to a low carbon future.
This class is an easy way to fulfill the SPU requirement.  However, it is extremely disorganized and the lectures are very scattered, which makes it difficult to tell what the takeaways of the course are.
This course provides you with a ton of useful information and inspires you to take action. If you are a humanities concentrator/it's been a long time since high school make sure you brush up on your math/science and take advantage of office hours
This class is horrible. Grading is arbitrary I feel like and it is a complete waste of time. Do not take it. Seriously, not even as a 5th class.
Prof McElroy keeps everything relevant and pretty interesting.  Good class overall.  I'm a little worried, because you n
Be prepared to spend a lot time converting units.
This is a very interesting class for SPU or as an elective.  It is a very relevant and important topic.  It has a very reasonable workload.  If you are comfortable with unit conversions this course will be easier for you.
This class was a breeze for the chem and physics concentrators that took it. There was definitely a significant barrier for the humanities students who weren't used to doing the kinds of calculations expected.
Came in interested in the subject, McElroy is very knowledgable but you must actively seek this out because the structure of the class is subpar. Midterm material is barely covered in problem sets and completely unrelated to lectures. McElroy is an intelligent lecturer and tries very hard but is constrained by poorly formulated lecture slides. If you have any background in science this will be easy, no background you be at a significant disadvantage.
This course is great for becoming more knowledgeable about the problem of climate change and the related topics.
If you need to take an SPU, this is a very good class for you to take! It's very interesting and not too demanding. The problem sets, if you attend section, are very manageable, and there is little work beyond the weekly problem set. I highly recommend it!
A fine class if you are interested in the material.
Horribly taught. McElroy is a boring lecturer and the grading is unfair. Don't take this course.
you'll get a background in energy-related challenges and will look at different types of energy sources. it's a great and very interesting class.
Fair workload with a great teaching staff.
The course is very approachable to non-science folks, and the material is genuinely interesting, but lectures are very disorganized and often do not match psets. Lectures are also very long, and could be condensed/shortened by about 30 minutes.
You learn a lot about a subject that is extremely relevant in today's times.
I took this course just for an elective since I'm interested in energy science and policy. Prof. McElroy is incredibly knowledgeable and has had so many interesting experiences in his life, so he added a lot of value to the course. Unfortunately, lectures can get very dry and as a senior, it becomes difficult to continue to attend class, especially with lecture videos online. Also, exams were easy but the standard deviation was completely the result of small mistakes, so grading is kind of arbitrary.
This course has very interesting and relevant subject matter. However, the lectures are very dull. That being said, the course is also super easy, so going to lectures isn't really a requirement to do well.
SPU 25 was a fun and interesting fifth class for me. The workload was minimal but the material was very relevant to climate change and energy policy today.
Not much work at all very easy and incredibly interesting loved the class.
Very easy.
This course is a fantastic gen ed: you learn about something interesting and important, and it isn't particularly taxing on your workload.
Very manageable. Take as 5th class
This class covers some of the most useful and pertinent information of any class I've taken at Harvard, but the in-class experience is pretty painful....lectures are mostly pretty boring, section sucks, the psets and exams are kind of ridiculous...mostly busy work. Not a bad SPU, but you won't be blown away.
This would compete vigorously for worst course at Harvard. That advice was given to me, but I feel like I should enumerate a few examples so no other student underestimates that warning.1. Midterm exam. Median was a 96, implying that 1 incorrect multiple choice question puts you in the 50th percentile. Were the grades scaled up accordingly, that would not present such a problem. They weren't.2. Homeworks. These were glorified exercises in excel multiplication--literally dozens of unit conversions. In case you missed third grade, this is an exceptional opportunity to discover division. The book (astonishingly) is full of 'asides' where they convert different units. It sadly may have been the highlight of the text.3. The book itself is too dated to apply to current energy markets. Data from 2005 has little bearing on current technology, costs, and prospects.4. While Wikipedia may provide a surrogate for other course material, only in the course does the book actually reference Wikipedia in its bibliography. 5. The lecture notes are amalgamations of graphs across the Internet. A well-worded Google search could largely replace them and even maybe should.6. One caveat. The teaching staff means well and did organize some cool trips, including to a nuclear power plant. So some credit is due there, albeit not to the degree that justifies enrollment in the course.
Incredibly easy class, especially if you're looking for an SPU that doesn't require too much of a science background. Also, the material is incredibly useful if you're at all interested in climate change (and you should be, you know how crazy Cambridge weather is, might as well understand why before it kills us all)
Course material is very interesting and relevant but lecture is very unexciting and monotonous.
It's great course, if you want get a general sense for the energy environment. Choose Mary Moore as your TA, she's the best, is very helpful and provides a lot of extra information.
Dry, but very easy!
This class gives students a good overview of the climate issues facing us today and is very accessible for students without a strong science background. However, the p-sets can be tedious and covering so many topics in one semester doesn't allow for intensive focus on any one topic.
It's not a fascinating course, but it's a very straightforward SPU with not a huge time commitment. Also, the topic itself is interesting even if lectures/problem sets are rather dull. I'd recommend it for a humanities person who needs to fulfill the SPU requirement.
The information is important to learn about, however, lectures aren't immensely intriguing.
This course is easy, but not captivating. A manageable way to fulfill your SPU requirement without requiring post-high school math or science.
It's a very interesting class and truly does teach you about the energy sources in our lives that we often overlook. This class also expands into economics and politics and how energy plays a big role in all parts, so I truly learned something new.
This is a fascinating topic, taught by a professor passionate about the topic. Sections could be improved by being more discussion based.
Good course. I did nothing. Went to maybe 1 class. Aced the midterm. Aced the final exam.
if you need an easy SPU, this one is good. It's not super interesting, but it won't take up much of your time. Try to get Mary as your TF, she was excellent.
The course is really disorganized. If you are truly interested in learning about energy and climate change, this class might not be for you. But if you're just looking for an easy class to satisfy SPU, then this class may be it. Lectures are recorded, you don't have to actually go to lecture, and there is only one midterm and one final.I watched the lecture videos on 2 times the speed and it was still too slow.
This is a class that if you put in the time for work and pay attention in lecture, you will do very well. Do the section/homework problems, read the assigned parts of the book, pay attention to what's emphasized in lecture, and you're golden. The class covers a very interesting and relevant field of study and Prof. McElroy is a very cool and friendly guy!
This course teaches some very interesting and important material. For everyone who doesn't know much about energy or climate change, this class is a must. For anyone who has done quite a bit of climate change or energy research, this course may be a bit basic. It is also a bit unorganized and very little work so a great course to take for getting an intro into some very important topics without having to work too hard. Professor McElroy is also very nice and incredibly knowledgeable so it's a great chance to get to know him more.
I would take this course if you want a low time commitment that satisfies your SPU requirement. A good class to balance a tough workload with. Interesting and pertinent material, too.
Boring, but easy.
The class can get a little dry. Nevertheless the content is worth knowing. Mary is a gem of a TF. If you get her, you are set.
Great class.  The best way to get SPU gen ed.  Material is very interesting and pertinent to current events.  Lectures are enjoyable and the homework is painless
Lecture is very boring in its current format.
This was definitively not the most intellectually engaging course I've taken at Harvard, but it was a decent way to meet the SPU requirement. For a science Gen Ed, it was a solid course. The first half of the class was much more straightforward and informative than the second half, which was spent on a group climate summit simulation final project. My biggest problem with the class was the frustrations of having to do a final project which was being tested out by the professor and TFs for the first time, and which was far too ambitious in scope, and unnecessarily time consuming/logistically complicated, without a serious background in climate science to adequately complete. Definitely don't sign up to be a "managing editor" for your section if you don't want to spend half of your time being a pseudo-TF and wrangling together 12 different people in your section to do their parts on the project.
Lectures aren't very interesting and the final project in theory sounds compelling but there aren't enough specific details as to how to go about doing calculations and such.
The first half is useful, but the second half is a bit random and the lectures have nothing to do with the project we work on for the end of the semester.
This class is really dry, and the project can feel overwhelming because it happens so suddenly and has so many components. Take it for Gen-Ed but wish it had gone beyond "The Inconvenient Truth" in the stakes
This class was highly structured at the beginning of the year and kind of turns into a free for all with the final project. I'm sure they will try to structure it more next year, but this year was really fun with all of the freedom we had. The climate summit was also a great event.
It is a good introduction to the science behind climate change
I really enjoyed the subject matter of the course: each lecture and problem set was incredibly interesting and helped me learn about one of the most important issues our world faces today. However, I think the final project component of this course could really be improved. Obviously this is somewhat expected as it was the first year of the course but improvements could really be made in terms of feasibility of the workload and amount of separate components the course had.
If you're interested in a broad overview and introduction to climate science and energy policy, the material that this course covers is great. However, the professor does not generate a ton of enthusiasm for the subject matter and the lectures are very dry. The course curriculum itself is well constructed and interesting and there is definitely value in that, but its execution is less than satisfactory. You have to decide whether or not these reservations make it worth it or not.
You will leave the class with a solid understanding of what global climate is, causes for it, its impacts, and potential future policy decisions related to it. For all that, it was satisfactory as a gen ed.The first half of the class spends too much time going over energy basics at a high school level (too much plug and chug - 3 tedious HWs, a midterm) that I hope they will change for future iterations because the second half of the class is very cool and they need to spend more time with it.The second half is dedicated to a global climate summit where each section represents a country and within a section groups are responsible for different energy sectors (power systems, transportation, etc) that you will become an expert on. Your section writes a big final report combining policy changes from each sector to reduce the nations overall emissions. This was the first year of this so it needs some tweaking but was very cool overall.The homeworks and midterms are straightforward and shouldn't be that challenging. Weekly workload is low but end of semester is backloaded with your final report.Overall very happy with it as a gen ed. A good fit if you're interested in the climate change issue but don't have much formal experience studying/researching it.
Professor McElroy's lectures are enjoyable, if a little boring. Great teaching staff. Final project involved a lot of listening to other classmates present, which was a bit of a waste of time. But if they tweak the final project, would recommend as a painless and applicable SPU.
Great class and not too difficult.
This class is fricken awesome!
This class was a very chill class that also had interesting material. The class isnt structured very well but i still liked it.
Easy, but learned very little
This class is the worst-administered, poorly planned, and least educational course I've ever taken. If you're looking for a course to complain about incessantly, this is the one for you. Take anything else to fulfill SPU/SLS. The workload isn't the issue, it's the continuous stream of ridiculous assignments that are pointless. You'll spend most weeks asking: should I do what my TF said, or what Canvas said, or what the syllabus said. Also you'll have to do a group project with 15 people who are similarly confused and disgruntled. Stay away from this shitshow of a class.
Interesting topic but the lectures were pretty boring. Also, assignments felt like busy work. Final project was ok in the end but it was a lot of work.
The material in this course is incredibly relevant and important for citizens of the world to consider.
TAKE THIS COURSE. You'll learn a great deal about the world and climate change, but also, you'll end up with an A and the final project (no final) is really fun and educational. I took this class with reserves but now I think I might do a ESPP secondary.
The class is pretty easy and straightforward, but the new final project was a mess. Hopefully they fix it up next year, so at least shop it and try to get a feel for if they updated the project and made it more reasonable
dont mess up the midterm
This class gives students a necessary understanding of climate change and power systems in the U.S. as well as on a global scale. The course reviews global agreements, the science behind energy systems and the affects of climate change on a social and scientific level.
From what I've heard about the other SPUs, SPU 25 may be one of the best ones if you actually want to learn something applicable to everyday life and not just bum your way through another brainless class. The materials really provide you with scientific and historical background to contextualize the climate change challenge, and Professor McElroy is very good about also discussing opinions or propositions that are not exactly in line with his own conclusions. The 1.5 hour lectures are a bit dry--something about Professor McElroy's voice and the time duration, unfortunately--but you'll be required to attend class because of little open-ended short answer assignments in the middle of lecture. I took this as a 5th class and so really skated along doing the bare minimum to get an A, but the book is incredible, and if you actually read it I think the class would be a lot more profound. That being said, though, I think everyone should know this material. Even if you just veg out during lecture and do the psets and midterm (midterm was reasonable to easy, by the way), you'll inevitably absorb quite a bit of useful information.
This class gives a great background into the climate. There is no background necessary and the professor really knows what he is talking about. He can drone on a little but if you actually pay attention it is interesting. The class is pretty easy. Three problem sets are pretty easy and then there is just a midterm and final project. A good way to get your SPU requirement done.
You'll learn a lot about climate change and how the world must come together to fight it.
The grading is arbitrary but the class is easy. If you're down to risk an A- you should take it.
This class was brutal.
If you're looking out for your GPA look here. This is a gem and a half. You might not learn as much as in a lot of courses, but this is good as a fifth, or to balance out a tough schedule.  Also, the material is genuinely important and I do think I learned cool stuff and have a more thoughtful conversation about climate change.
Relatively painless way to knock out your SPU requirement. The homeworks and midterm are fair. The final project was a bit disorganized (it was their first year doing it), so I'm sure in future iterations of the course that will be a bit smoother. Good class, definitely would recommend.
Class is a gem.
