This course will give you a good working knowledge of how the earth came to be what it is now, the formation of the universe, and how we can look for life elsewhere and learn about other planets.
Great way to fulfill SPU
Not a difficult course (and I was deathly afraid of the SPU Gen Ed requirement), and assignments are graded pretty easily.  The amount of material can feel overwhelming, though, esp. since section and lecture often don't cover the same things.  The material itself is pretty cool for the most part, and the professor is the coolest guy.  Extra things like in-class demos, buiding robots, observations nights, etc. are awesome.
This class is a very comfortable and manageable class even if you do not have much prior science knowledge!
Class is awesome, highly recommend regardless if it's a requirement.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. This class is so fun and interesting.
This is an amazing class taught by a hilarious professor who truly is engaging and interesting to listen to.  The TFs are amazing and are as equally interesting and enjoyable to listen to.  The workload is totally manageable and the midterm and final are totally reasonable.  I would definitely recommend taking this class.
Dimitar is awesome and the TFs are so enthusiastic about the material--they make it interesting.  I took this class because it seemed the most painless way to fulfill this Gen Ed category, but I ended up really enjoying it.  Definitely take it if you're looking for an easy, fun way to get a Gen Ed out of the way.
really easy and fun way to get an SPU requirement out of the way, plus the material is being taught by the leader of the team that is working on exoplanet detection
Lectures are boring but you don't need to pay attention if you take advantage of every section and exam review - easy A :) (and I am NOT a math/science person)
The concepts are fascinating, but don't mire you in impossibly cryptic equations or uninteresting mechanics. A look at some of the most interesting realities of astronomy. Kind of like watching NOVA, without the repeats.
This class is a great way to fulfill the SPU requirement. It is well-organized, requires very little work per week, and is fairly graded. The midterm and final were both fair tests, although they were comprehensive and required significant studying.
The class is pretty interesting, but does not necessarily do a good job of blending together the bio/ chem / physics components. If you're looking for a pretty easy science A core that is also interesting, this is a good bet.
such a painless class but also really really fun. you'll learn a few things, fall in love with the staff, and probably get a good grade.
Take this class to fulfill a science a requirement. It's the best option.
Super easy, super fun, super star professor. Take the class and be happy.
Utilize section and your TF, as they are very helpful in better understanding the material!
VERY easy core, as long as you go to (or watch) lecture and understand basic algebra, you'll do just fun. The subject matter is interesting.
No necessary math or science requirement.
Take this!!! It is SUCH a great way to fulfill your requirement.
This is by far the easiest SPU class and actually pretty interesting. You don't really need to go to lecture, the homework is minimal, and, if you get Wade as a TF, you'll learn a lot of things you would never study in another class.
This class is extremely disorganized. There is no "general theme" of the course and it is all over the place.
This is a mostly interesting and not too challenging way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. I enjoyed the class.
Do the readings and watch the lecture videos when you need them for problem sets. This is a great way to get rid of your science-a core without taking a huge GPA hit.
This class is a good gen ed if you are looking for a low-workload class. That said, the lectures become boring during the second half of the semester, so be prepared.
It's a typical easy Science Gen-ed. Your decision to take off should understand the tradeoff between how easy a class is and how boring it is. This class is easy, but unless you have a special fascination for astronomy, it will be boring.
This course, simply put, is awesome. It's a great introduction to science through an astronomical perspective for humanities concentrators and fit into my schedule perfectly. I took AP Bio and AP Chem in high school, so I found this course to be very, very easy. However, for some of my friends who hadn't, they had to put in a little more time than me but it is still very doable. The tests are fair and the psets are very easy, but the lectures do get kind of dry during the end of the course and I found myself less interested. Nevertheless, I found section to be great and we got to play with lego robots! In addition, I really liked attending an observing night to use Harvard's telescopes.
As I've made clear, this was the best core class I've taken. It was well-organized and I am way more into planetary science now than I ever imagined I would be!
A lot of fun and the teaching staff really cares.
It is a great way to fulfill the Science of the Physical Universe requirement.
very interesting material and very easy. best way to fulfill SPU requirement. so enjoyable, favorite class i've taken at harvard yet
This is a very interesting class and is not too difficult! You will learn a lot of fascinating material. In addition, you should take advantage of the opportunity to use the observatory in the science center. I highly recommend this course.
It was very easy, and surprising very interesting as well. TAKE THIS COURSE. It has super minimal requirements but will make you reflect on life and the universe outside of class.
This class is the best way to fill your SPU requirement.  The lectures can sometimes be boring, but the overall coursework is interesting and it is not time consuming or hard.
The best way to fulfill your Science of the Physical Universe requirement - Professor Sasselov is great, the course is interesting, and as someone from a non-science concentration I can confirm that it's not too difficult.
This is a fantastic way to fill a core as well as have fun learning about discovering life on others planets.
This class is what a gen ed should be: extremely straight-forward, not too much work, interesting, and laid-back. Probably the best SPU around.
Take this course!!
Great class - very interesting material.
Great for a Science A - take it early because you'll get really into the material
It's an easy course, but it is mildly interesting. take it if you like the subject, but be willing to make an effort to take away anything from it.
interesting material, kind of a brutal class
Take at your own peril. It's not hard, but it's frustrating. DEFINITELY not for Senior Spring.
A relatively easy, painless gened, but the lack of organization can be frustrating at times. Honestly, I'd recommend taking a harder course if you are more interested in the topic.
This class covers a wide range of topics that do not seem related. Lecture and section are very relaxed but the exam was much harder. Section was more engaging but I found to hard to pay attention in lecture.
This course can become a bit more than you bargained for if you let it get away from you, but overall, it is easy.
Great GenEd. Very interesting material and the TFs are great. Section is awesome and TFs spend a lot of time answering any questions you may have. Lecture can be a bit dull at times but guest speakers are really cool (ex-astronauts etc.) Take it.
Probably the least painful way to fulfill the SPU requirement. The class tries hard to be interesting and cater to people without a science background.
So, this class is easy, but its also the biggest pain you will ever have to deal with while at Harvard. If you are not a science person like me and need it for gened, I recommend you take it. It sucks, but you will get through it, especially if you have a good TF.
Sections can actually be fun. They were relatively easy and Jessica was a really friendly and approachable TF. She always brought snacks! Lectures themselves start out interesting and then become dry over time. The teaching staff does try really hard to make the course material accessible and interesting. The scavenger hunt assignment was a nice alternative to section one week. Overall, relatively low workload. Only 5 problem sets!
This course is easy but lectures are not interesting. It has more math involved than initially expected.
As with any SPU, this isn't the time of your life, but the Teaching Staff (or at least Peter and my TF David) really try to make the learning experience fun and engaging.
Need an SPU. Can't get better than this.
As a student with very little background in science or physics, this class provided a great summary of the course material without being too strenuous or technical. Great class without a very heavy workload.
The topic of this course is interesting, and Professor Sasselov and all of the TFs are invested in the course and try to make it work, but there is a definite lack of connection. I really spent most of the class usure of what we were actually meant to be learning.
After some structure, this course could really be popular at Harvard. It's very interesting stuff.
This class is terribly disorganized. The goals of the course were unclear. The midterms were not returned for two months. TF's did not seem to be provided guidance for the goals of section each week. I learned very little and was unsure what I was supposed to be doing. It is easy, but by far, the worst class I took at Harvard.
Take it! It's fun!
This is a fairly painless way to satisfy the SPU gen-ed requirement. The teaching staff is committed to improving the course, and the material is surprisingly very interesting. There are a handful of annoying assignments, but none of them are difficult. I feel comfortable recommending this class to humanities concentrators.
Easier SPU but at the same time hard bc so unorganized.  if you have a good TF aka Yale, then you can make it more fun/easier to understand
This class will get you with the very difficult midterm and final exams
It's a very very basic overview of some conceptual questions of origins of life. It's hard to define it because it covers so many disciplines: astronomy, physics, biology, chemistry, but all on a very basic level. It's both a strength and a weakness of a course. Sometimes you're not really sure what information is relevant. TF's and Peter are extremely helpful. Reading assignments were somewhat irrelevant to the course. Overall, a pretty easy way to fulfill the GenEd requirement.
this class is ballin'
An amazing class. Prioritizes learning over being tough. Really led to a positive environment. A true gem.
Absolutely do not take this class. You will be frustrated all semester. Yes, lecture is optional and it's not very much work during the semester, but exams are obscenely long and come completely out of left field. The Professor exists in his own world and is hard to understand and often goes out on tangent. This class provides you with nothing useful or relevant to the rest of your education. You won't get any homework back on time, sections are too long and very poorly managed and if you get a bad TF it's really a killer 2 hours every week. This class is a joke and a disaster.
This class is not easy, at all. It is quite challenging. There is a lot of math involved, and though it may be simple math at times, sometimes it also requires a lot of skills that a student may or may not possess. Also,t he class covers a TON of information, so be ready to take very challenging midterm/final exams that require you not only to memorize a lot of material, but also to do a lot of math and be able to speak fluently about every part of the course. I think the course would be better served if the final was NOT cumulative.
The material was really interesting and Professor Sasselov is awesome! I highly recommend this course.
This class is kind of phenomenal. 'Phenomenal' because the entire teaching staff cares so much about the students and the class, and wants nothing more than for everyone to have fun learning about astronomy - the professor is brilliant, and the TF's are incredibly knowledgeable and passionate; sections are chill but the activities and assignments are really unique; the material itself is simply fascinating as you go from discussing basic elements to whether or not life is possible on other planets; and the various other opportunities with this class (using the telescopes, talking with Mars rover scientists, etc) are just too cool. 'Kind of' because the one major drawback with the class as a whole is that lectures aren't presented in the most efficient way possible. Professor Sasselov knows so much that he basically just talks for 90 minutes, and it's all really interesting, except by the end you don't really know what the main points were and which parts were just intriguing side facts. If the lecture organization can be sussed out some more, everything would be so perfect.
If you want an interesting course about planetary science this is an excellent course. You learn about so many different fields in enough detail you'll be familiar to them but not in so much detail where you are constantly worrying about understanding topics and memorizing information.
Don't take this course unless it is absolutely the only option you have in order to fulfill the Gen Ed requirement or if your love of science is so strong that not even a horribly run course could kill it. While the professor and TFs are nice enough people who clearly are knowledgeable about the subject, they are not great teachers, especially for those of us without the strongest math and science backgrounds. I found the lectures to be highly boring and very difficult to understand, and they often did not have clear connections to sections and homework assignments. In short, this class was a major source of frustration and the worst that I have taken so far at Harvard.
The course was a bit too chaotic for my taste.  I didn't like how not even the TFs knew when some of the psets were due or going to be sent out.  When we wanted to learn the material and what our mistakes were, the staff was very vague in what they were saying to the point that a student would become jaded.  If you are looking for a good gen-ed to fulfill SPU, don't take this one unless you are well versed in the topic.  The course material was interesting enough and had some cool moments, but such moments were not constant in the course.
Although the course is "easy", if you have a Type-A personality you will be incredibly frustrated by the poor organization of the course. Lectures were dull and not well attended as a result, the midterm was not as difficult as last year but it was way too long and most people felt unprepared for it because it was unclear what the takeaway points were for the course.  Most importantly, lectures and sections were both too long and should be only one hour each.  And, assignments were never handed back on time, so you never knew where you stood, even if you sent multiple emails asking for them.  All in all, I thought it should have been a good course based on the topic, but it was very poorly executed (for the third year in a row).
Lectures are so boring and slow. They also don't actually provide much information. The stuff we go over in section is completely different from the lectures. Kind of disorganized
GO TO LECTURE. it will be much easier.
Very easy, but you have to put in the time. 2-hour sections, long lectures.
If you have any interest in basic astronomy, or if you'd like to learn more about Mars exploration and other NASA projects or life on other plants, take this course!  It gives a great overview of astronomy, astrobiology, and space exploration, and the professor is awesome. You'll also learn about current research and findings from the NASA missions (before the national press conferences!), you'll likely get to talk with astronauts and CEOs of space exploration companies, and you'll get to use the telescopes on the Science Center observatory.  Highly recommend this course!
Make sure you review lecture materials thoroughly
I want to begin by saying that the teaching staff within the course seems extremely passionate about the material, and are very kind. That has helped enhance the experience within the course.However, ultimately, this course needs some major revisions before it is up to any sort of standard for a Harvard University class.First, the lectures within the course are completely unstructured, and extremely monotonous. It is impossible to focus for an hour and a half, because there is no discernable structure to what is being said. The lecture slides are completely useless, as they often have an unclear semblance of words on them. No one attends the lectures, because they are ultimately unstructured and unfocused.Second, the head TF of the course was COMPLETELY disorganized. Only once did he upload a homework when he said he would. Only uploaded the solutions to homeworks at the end of the semester, and did not upload solutions for homeworks pertinent to the midterm until the morning of. And never really responded to emails in a timely way. Also, our midterms were returned 6 weeks after we took them. If a student did that with an assignment, they would have failed.Finally, there is no overarching theme to the course. Yes, it is about life and finding life, but the narrative of the course doesn't flow at all, and every week we jump from one topic to the next willy nilly. The positives are that there seems to be a lot of opportunities for extra credit. Although the concepts are simple, the course is actually not very easy (midterm had an average of 78, with SD of 12), but they decided to give us 10 points back for the curve, which was great. But 35% of the course is section, and 25% is hw, while the midterm and final each only counted for 20%. Ultimately, the course needs a lot of work, but actually has some potential. If this weren't an SPU, I would definitely not recommend; however, SPU is a category that definitely needs to be reworked, so for an SPU, I recommended with reservations. It doesn't seem like you're going to find a better SPU, because all of them seem pretty bad. But the topics in this class that do get discussed (the scale of the universe, etc.) can actually be really amazing if you can sift though the many unfortunate portions of this course.
Astronomy is a fascinating and humbling subject.  I find it the most metaphysical of sciences.  Prof. Sasselov is authentic and very knowledgeable and intelligent.  This is a relevant and very interesting class, though lectures tend to be on the slow-paced side.  Sections are always fun and interesting--the best was when we got to look at all sorts of organisms and objects under microscopes (water bears, planaeria, print images, microfossils---incredibly interesting!)  the observations were amazing, and the tf's are fun and love their subject!
Probably one of the easiest class you'll take for Science of the Physical Universe gen ed.  Everything is pretty easy, but the tests are pretty challenging.
They made the course much more difficult than the previous year. I took it thinking I was taking an easy elective but ended up having it become my main focus of studying for the latter half of the semester. Would not suggest
You get out of it what you put into it.
The class material is extremely interesting and if the course is refurbished a little its a definite class to take. However, this past year the lectures were dreadfully boring and the only way to learn the material is to read the book or get a study guide.
it's kind of boring but it's the easiest science of physical universe gened you could find!
This is the easiest SPU you will find. The lectures meander and don't provide that much value. But it's a fascinating topic, and you will learn things.
Do not take this class. It is poorly structured, unfair, and boring.
Deals with the interesting question of the possibility of  life on another planet, but lectures were pretty dry.
This class was advertised by former students as a fun and low stress Gen Ed that gave a good overview of life on our planet and beyond. While this was true, the exams were far more difficult than expected. The mid-term especially was brutal.
Don't even bother going to class. The exams will focus on one or two little details mentioned over the entire course. So if you happen to not be an expert on whatever those may be, the exams will be incredibly difficult. A general breadth of knowledge of the material is effectively useless.
Not a difficult class, but lecture/section/homework/exams don't line up very well. When the tests rolled around, the common question was "What are we supposed to study, exactly?"
Easy gen ed- but not too interesting
The tests for 2012 were impossible and no one did well, but hopefully that will change in 2013.  Over all the class was good and worth taking if you need to fulfill a science requirement.
The class is harder than you would first expect...
This is a very frustrating course to take. Lectures are not engaging, the material is dense and therefore hard to sift through come evaluation time. You also will have to depend heavily on the internet/textbook for problem sets, a luxury you do not have for finals. All of the sections were learning different material so everyone prepared differently for the midterm/final. Those who did well (within my section at least) relied heavily on their high school science background, something I did not have.
I took this class under the assumption that it was the most painless way to get rid of this requirement, and it very well may be (given that all the other options are not exactly amazing either).  There is minimal work required over the course of the semester and the distribution for grading is extremely reasonable.  Psets will not take much time to complete.  Section and lectures can be really dull.  As a warning, the midterm was also unreasonably difficult under the time constraints.
Easy class that is still fun
This is a very interesting Gen Ed, but you have to be willing to put work into it.
This class is far more technical than its description, and its assessments are extremely rigorous for a Gen Ed.
If you need a Science of the Physical Universe course, this is definitely the one to take. Interesting lectures, optional readings, manageable homework, predictable midterms and finals.
Go to lecture
Take this class for SPU.  Best decision I ever made, as this class was relatively painless.  The exam were harder than we thought they would be, but overall the class was manageable.
DO NOT TAKE THIS. It was BY FAR my least favorite class at Harvard.
The class has interesting moments and Dimitar is very well respected and knows what he is doing, as he works on the Kepler telescope team for NASA. The course is large and a bit too ambitious in scope, though if you go to lecture you'll come away with some interesting knowledge for sure. The midterm and final definitely need to be studied for, as there are some tricky questions in there.
The class is great, but watch out for the exams. If you stay on top of the lectures and breeze through the readings it can be an easy A.
This class was not was prescribed by last year's Q guide. Though it was rather easy, it was not as simple as it was originally said to be. Be wary that though this class is a good and relatively interesting way to fulfill an SPU requirement, it does take more work than you may think.
This course covers a very wide range of material but is interesting if you're looking for a good introduction to the universe without hard science. Fun core. Get Peter's section. Well worth class on Friday.
If the midterm and final are more fair and true to the material then I would be more eager to recommend it.
A great class to fill your SPU requirement.
I didn't go to lectures for the majority of the semester and was able to get the gist of the course just fine. The intensity of your section will depend on who your tf is. Hopefully, the exams will be much more straightforward next year, too.
Section can be great, but it depends on the TF.  Lecture can be painfully boring but they are crucial to doing well on the exams.  It was very helpful to have them videotaped so you could go back to them if something was unclear or if you missed class.  Most SPU's are terrible, I consider this one to be a lesser of many evils.
don't take the course if you're not interested in astronomy--it's really not as easy as people say it is, and the exams are really unfair
Midterm and final were tricky, so study hard for those. Work is very manageable and lectures are generally insightful.
The work is light, the material is interesting, and the grading is forgiving. The teaching staff is extremely endearing, and Professor Sasselov is a cool dude who really wants his students to learn in a fun environment.
Beware! The course is poorly organized and becomes tedious by the second half. Avoid it unless you are willing to constantly reach out to your TF to figure out what is going on in a given week.
Has gotten harder.
This class is a ton more fun if you try to get more involved. Ask Dimitar about the origins of life initiative and see if you can get on the mailing listevery month they have loads of exciting events and talks you can go to where you really see how fast this field is progressing and what people on the front lines are doing. It's awesome!
This course was challenging, and they don't do you any favors in terms of helping you along with the material. Expect to be self-sufficient learning concepts (especially if you get a bad TF), and expect to be tested on all sorts of things on the tests that you may not understand/have solidly reviewed  how to do. When there are SPU courses JUST on physics, geology, astronomy etc, why take the course that makes you try to learn them all?
The course is not as easy as the previous years' Q guides have let on. It is pretty light workload from week to week (biweekly psets, really easy section handouts), but the material gets a little overwhelming come midterm or final seasons. The subject material covers so many different sciences and sometimes annoyingly gets bogged down on the details.
This class is very disorganized and tries to do too much and misses out on focusing on what it could do extremely well. A little too much of the learned astronomer lecturing, not enough looking up in perfect silence at the stars.
Don't take this class. It is so poorly organized and lectures are dull. Take a gen ed that might consume a bit more time but you will actually take something away from. The material could have been interesting but this class is terrible.
Very easy gen ed for those who were dreading the SPU requirement, like myself. The teaching staff is super helpful and enthusiastic about the material.
This is not just a physics class. It's also chem and bio. It's not really SPU...more like a general overview of science with an emphasis on outer space
Professor Sasselov is simply brilliant, and his lectures, while taped, are absolutely worth going to for the demos. (the gas-car action-reaction one was amazing!). Professor Sasselov is at the forefront of his field, and hearing about new breakthroughs in exoplanet discovery during lecture really emphasizes that you are at Harvard and listening to someone describe research that is changing what we know about life and the universe. The lectures at the end, especially, give you a new perspective on life and humanity's place in it. The teaching staff is fantastic, and they do try to teach the material in such a way that those without any background won't be disadvantaged.
Go to lecture, the course will be infinitely easier.
Here's the thing, the class isn't actually that difficult if you are able to two things: use basic algebra and are willing to at least pretend to give a crap about learning the (very) basic concepts. Pretty much everyone came into this class expecting to have an A handed to them without doing anything and this year, the teaching staff weren't having it. Totally valid. BUT - if you're going to make your class into a legitimate class, at least back it up with a TF staff that cares and at least attempt to not make your course the most disorganized and disingenuous class ever. As a science concentrator, it's mortifying to see what the Science Gen. Eds are like; no wonder Humanities students are petrified of science.
I would skip it...it got hard this year.
I think this course needs to undergo major reconstruction-it does have potential, but the energy in lecture and the content of the tests is unsatisfactory as of now.
Take this class. You will not regret it.
This class is no longer the joke class. This class, ladies and gents, is not a easy A. However, you can get an A, if you study and work hard. It's pretty fair, and if the material interests you, do take.
This class will require very little work, but at the expense of lectures that aren't very engaging and midterms/finals that are actually somewhat challenging.
This is an excellent course if you, like me, have ever wondered why you live and what this whole world means in a broader scientific sense.  This course gives you a great understanding about the universe, from its founding to ideas about its eventual end.  I certainly look differently when I look at the stars today, and that is something which I hope you can one day experience.  It isn't a very hard class, do the reading (no one will, but do it) and you will learn a great deal.
Great class. Nicknamed "rocks and jocks". Great way to get an easy A, comparable to Stat104
If you're interested in the subject matter take it, but for an easy gen ed, I would say there are more fun and less tedious ways of fulfilling the requirement.
great class to take care of the SPU requirement; not that easy if you don't go to class, so make sure you attend lecture
The lectures were pretty boring for this class, but the problem sets and assignments weren't too bad (just time-consuming). But, the exams were terrible and I don't think they related well to the material they taught us at all (and about 50% of your grade is based on exams).
This class is another one of those Science Gen-Eds that decides to be extremely broad and end up just teaching skin-deep concepts condescendingly. That said, Professor Sasselov is clearly an expert in his field and the astronomy stuff is interesting.
Do not take this class: If possible, wait a year to see if it is significantly changed next year. It was both much harder and less interesting than almost anyone was expecting.
I truly enjoyed this class. It was the model gen-ed: not too difficult, but with still a good amount to understand/absorb; featuring a world-class professor who gives engaging twice weekly lectures, every single one of which I loved; backed up by a well-structured once-weekly section. The course is straightforward, which leaves you free to enjoy the more "inspirational" moments of Professor Sasselov's lectures, without feeling like you are getting lost in too advanced materials. I wholeheartedly recommend. However, be aware that there is great disparity in the quality of  sectionleaders. Don't be afraid to change in the first weeks as it will make a big difference!
It seems easy enough, until the lectures are hard to stay awake in, the midterms kicks your ass, and then the material starts to spiral into a confusing sector. Not worth it as a GenEd.
This course is an easy way to satisfy your SPU requirement, but it's not especially intellectually engaging, and you won't come away feeling like you've learned a tremendous amount.
The material becomes difficult for a non-science person, especially because the labs sheets don't allow time for reviewing and clarifying lecture concepts
It's an interesting class, but if you don't go to class you might not get a lot out of it.
The subject matter of this course is all over the maps. The material is interesting, but the exams are incredibly difficult to study for as the materials are different in section, lecture, and review sessions.
Everything
It's easy and interesting, but sometimes the basic science they teach you is insulting if you took any kind of high school science or math.
It really depends on your teaching fellow. I had a great TF, so I had a great experience. If you have a mediocre TF, it can be quite frustrating. Despite the TF, however, it is definitely one of the easiest ways to satisfy the SPU gen-ed.
It's an ok course to take to fulfill your SPU requirement, but there are better ones out there.  If you're just interested in the subject matter, it won't disappoint, but it probably won't be phenomenal either.
if you attend or watch lectures and go to section & participate you will do well.
This is not the cupcake course it's advertised to be. That being said, it's a very interesting course ad if you put in the work, you'll like it. The section component is a lot of fun.
the homeworks can be a pain but if you take it with a group of friends then its definitely a good spu
no comment
Take this class if you are interested, even somewhat, in astronomy and are looking to take a relatively easy Gen Ed, then take this class. However, I think I thought it was going to be easier than it was - you really need to do the text book readings and pay attention in lecture (not so much section) if you want to succeed. Although I thought I knew my stuff, I didn't do that great on the midterm or final, so it's by NO MEANS an "easy A." Just a warning! But Sasselov is so funny and chill, he really just wants you to learn and take something out of the class.
Everyone said this was an easy Gen ed. I figured that because I'd never taken physics, this would be the least painful way to fulfill the requirement. However, the way the course is run is that students do poorly on exams, TFs tell you not to worry about your terrible exam grades, and then somehow at the end, supposedly, everyone comes out with an okay grade.  Hooray!
This class was supposed to be easy but the midterm and final questions seemed to come out of nowhere. I recommended taking another SPU if your looking for an easy stress free SPU.
as someone who hadn't done science or math in years, this class was a struggle. having said that, they do try to make it as easy and possible, and tfs are very willing to help.
They made it a lot harder this year than last year. It was still sweet, though, because you never had to go, there was no lab, and there were very few psets. Definitely utilize your TF to get help with psets. The subject matter is actually really cool. As far as SPUs go, this is a good one for non-science people, but given that they made it harder, there are probably better options.
if you absolutely must
This class is an easy way to fill and SPU requirement. However, the stringent math involves makes me weary to recommend with enthusiasm .
The class itself is quite easy; the midterm and final were difficult
The material presented in this course is some of the most interesting I've seen at Harvard. This class single-handedly made me wish I had discovered astronomy earlier in my life and become a Astro concentrator. Weird but true.
This isn't a cakewalk, but it isn't difficult either.
the class is very loosely structured and jumps from subject to subject very fast, but if you attend all sections and lectures you should be just fine on all tests
It is a great topic with an obviously passionate prof & teaching staff. There are a lot of us in the course that have no interest in the topic and no motivation to take advantage of the observing opportunities or extra things they make available. I thought the lectures were boring and the pace was not one that kept my attention. Well-prepared lectures and sections but this class is a product of an SPU category that really needs work from the Gen. Ed. office. I took it because it seemed to be a painless way to do SPU. It took more time than I imagined and I didn't enjoy the experience. It is by no means overwhelming, but I think the course is much harder than in previous years based on previous comments.
This is the best class to take if you want to fulfill the Science of Physical Universe requirement. I am far from being a science person and yet I still found the class easy. The lab sections sometimes let you out early and the problem sets were painless to complete. Take this class if you want an interesting and easy gen-ed and learn about the possibility of aliens living on another exoplanet somewhere in the universe.
took it because people said it was the easy spu gen ed, but it ended up being rather difficult in midterms and exams
It's a great class to fulfill this requirement. Maybe a little bit easier than it needs to be, but the subject material is legitimately awesome.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE UNLESS YOU HAVE A STRONG BACKGROUND IN THE MATERIAL BECAUSE YOU WONT LEARN WHAT YOU NEED IN THE ACTUAL CLASS SO YOU BETTER HAVE LEARNED IT SOMEWHERE ELSE...
not as easy as you think.
You'll seem like you are ready for tests, but then you'll take the test and have no idea when the material on the test was ever discussed.
I found this course surprisingly very interesting. I would definitely recommend it -- it's not particularly challenging and I found that I actually liked the material.
The tests were quite hard! Keep up with your readings, go to lecture, and pay attention in section!
Way too hard if you have a limited science background.
It is a great introduction to the world of astronomy and very easy to grasp even for those who are humanities majors.
Lectures could have been better (a bit slow and monotonous) but the material was much cooler once i had to know it for the exam and read about it. so very cool subject matter for an SPU, but just watch the lectures on fast forward videos instead. But 25% participation, 25% homeworks (there are 4), 25% midterm, 25% final.  unfortunately a lot of hours
Oh, SPU 30, why did you scorn us so? Lots of students signed up for the class based on last year's deceptively high Q score, but little did they know that the course would be fundamentally changed for the worse by the teaching staff. The course lacks a defined structure and unitary focus, though it nominally deals with life, and the teaching fellows clearly have their own agendas in helping students "prepare" for exams that have nothing to do with the core principles of the course (at least the midterm). You know the course has a problem when the TFs themselves don't show up to lecture. That being said, 50% of the grade is practically a give-away and Prof. Sasselov is absolutely AWESOME and provides some pretty cutting edge information in lectures, so do make an effort to at least watch the lectures online and speak to him at some point.
This course has great section leaders and sections.
Some people think it is an easy class, but it is only easy if you treat it like a real class. Go to lectures and do the hw and its an easy A
Solid course, cool lectures, interesting sections with a lab component. They definitely stepped it up a bit this year and made it more difficult than in years past, so keep that in mind and definitely make sure you have a genuine interest in the subject matter.
easy gen ed
This class is fairly straightforward if you're looking at fulfilling a gen ed. However, the lectures are VERY tedious, the exams are somewhat unpredictable and the course is disorganized. If you're motivated and interested about learning astronomy, take it. If you have 0 interest in the subject, you may not be motivated enough to do well in this course.
This course seems like it will be very easy but the material is disorganized and the lectures are unclear. The material, though largely basic, is presented in a roundabout way that makes it more complicated and Professor Sasselov is not effective or efficient in conveying information.
It is supposed to be very easy... and, in many ways, it is. (No lab component and  many people  don't attend lecture)  But it's not a given.
A very interesting class with supportive TFs that combines a wide range of topics in physical science.
This is not an easy science gen-ed like students make it out to be-- it is not an easy A, it takes hard work and outside knowledge to truly succeed in this class.
This class never requires a lot of work, but it is really interesting at times if you have more time to devote to it.
It was a lot harder than I expected, especially not being a science person.  The course material, although interesting, felt disorganized and the exams were surprisingly very challenging.
Take natural disasters if you need to fulfill the GenEd  Requirement
Do not listen to the Q score for this course.  It is no longer a gem, rather a class that seems easy only to learn that it is nearly impossible.  I hated this class.
It is a little too much of everything.
You learn cool stuff! Must-take course.
This course was not a lot of work but the material from lectures and sections never really lined up with material tested on homeworks and exams. Also remembering some high school chemistry is really helpful.
Fascinating!
If you pay attention in lecture, you will get an A. Homeworks are simple and section notes are incredibly easy. The only thing that is complicated is the exam. If you are present in lectures, it will be easy. Most of the exam questions come from lecture, so if you were at lecture, you have basically a guaranteed A, at the least an A-.
This class is not easy, the tests are difficult and there is not a big curve. If you are looking for an easy Gen Ed, do not take this course.
This is a great class to take if you are interested at all in astronomy and earth science without getting too deep into it.
don't take it unless you have at least 30 other friends taking it from whom you can get study guides and other prep stuff
Fun and easy course
Really a pretty easy SPU, but actually, surprisingly interesting. I may have just found it so because I have forgotten much of the science I learned in middle school, but especially as the field of exoplanets is an expanding one in science today, I felt this course was very relevant and exposed me to a number of really striking ideas and new discoveries.
If you missed things/was confused about the lectures, the Essential Cosmic Perspective is helpful, though it goes over concepts rather than specific formulas.
Good class.
This course was fascinating in it's exploration of the development of life on earth and how that can be studied in order to examine the rest of our universe for extraterrestrial life. I enjoyed the subject matter thoroughly, although I was a bit less enchanted with the lectures.
the material is fascinating but the midterm is impossible..you can't actually tell what's going to be on it since the head TF has a different idea of what the course is about--in our review session he basically drew a big timeline of the universe...which didn't even take place on the exam. The TFs (at least mine was) great...but they also have no idea what is important for testing since they didnt' see the midterm before we had to study....so nobody knew anything about anything come exam time
I did my high school thesis on Astrobiology and was really excited to take a course on it at Harvard. However, this course is the very definition of an easy GenEd: Not much is expected from you and you don't learn much. My high school freshman brother laughed loudly whenever I showed him my problem sets which sometimes literally could be solved by multiplying two numbers and boxing the answer. Problem sets quickly became known as "sets" because they were no problem.
Great way to fulfill SPU requirement.  Light workload, straightforward class.  Be sure to study well for the midterm/exam.  They are not hard if you spend the day before memorizing a study guide.  Not to much work otherwise.
The midterm and final are not easy.
The class was fairly disorganized. Lecture always seemed irrelevant and I had a very hard time paying attention. I learned material through the homeworks. Winston was an amazing TF though, very fortunate to have him
You may feel discouraged from attending lectures because they are videotaped but lectures are helpful preparation for problem sets and exams.
Despite its reputation for being an easy class, it has become significantly harder: if you're looking for an easy A, look elsewhere
It's incredibly easy, you don't have to go to lecture basically ever, and the workload is very minimal to nonexistent. You also learn something about astronomy if you knew nothing beforehand (like I did). On the minus side, if you're looking to learn anything more than you would by picking up an astronomy textbook/Wikipedia page and reading it for a few hours, then this class isn't for you.
I started without knowing anything about astronomy. It turns out that you do not have to. Classes are interesting and easy to follow. Now I can recognize several stars when I look at the sky. A very rewarding class! As professor is working for NASA, very up-to-date information will be provided. It is just amazing to know what is going on in the field.
This class got much harder this semester. Beware.
The requirements aren't too much, but tons of kids got crushed on the midterm and final because there's some material that's conceptually hard to understand.
a lot harder then thought
Painless, fun way to get a gen ed out of the way. a little math
this class turned out to be much harder than i was expecting but the workload was not thhhat bad. just the tests took a lot of preparation, especially since the lectures and reviews were usually no help
The tests are harder than any of the assignments.
This class is easy. Like, really easy. Everything is reviewed in (excruciating) detail, and even without doing a single bit of reading (and probably not even going to all of the lectures) any student should be able to get a pretty easy A in this course. That said, learning about the solar system and outer space falls into the same realm as dinosaurs as far as "fun" is concerned, and for people who feel like going beyond the strict realm of the course there's a lot of cool stuff you can learn about - I personally spent most of lecture cruising wikipedia reading articles about moons and planets and subjects covered in lecture.
This is a fun way to fulfill your science requirement.
Its a super interesting course and half of it is basically a gimme if you apply yourself; however, you have to be careful not to fall behind for the midterm/final as those are fairly challenging if you're playing catch-up.
This class is a pretty good way to fulfill the SPU requirement, since there's very little work, no long labs, and some of the topics are pretty interesting, especially if you're interested in astronomy, space exploration, or the question of how life emerges on planets.  It could've been run a bit better (especially the sections), but the TFs are nice and generally helpful, and the professor is very knowledgeable.
This course is easy. Very easy.
Easy, low time commitment, but the exams are designed poorly. Multiple choice questions worth more than one point, true and false worth up to 4 points, longer calculations only worth as much as the MC and T/F.
A good, easy, sometimes kind of interesting SPU. Not so much about "life in space" as about "lines of scientific evidence that astronomers use to determine if a planet might have life." Professor Sasselov is awesome, though.
Interesting topic, and Sasselov's enthusiasm brings a lot to the course. Expectations for exams are not always clear. But it's a great way to fulfill the SPU requirement, and the material is certainly very easy.
I loved this course. It was quick, painless, and to the point. THE SECTIONS WERE ALSO SO MUCH FUN. The homework was easy and the midterm and final were breezes. In all honesty, this has been my favourite GenEd!
Pretty easy class, though the mid-term can be quite difficult. Make sure you go to section because it makes up a large amount of your grade.
This class can be easy, but at least with this year, a lot of the homework assignments and the midterm were unfair. If you have a good TF (as I fortunately did), they can help you decipher what the homework problems are looking for and analyze the professor's lectures to figure out what the main points are to help you study. I do not know what I would have done without my TF though.
This course is a relatively easy science Gen-Ed for people who may not have a strong science background.
The information discussed in the class is interesting, but the lectures are boring and the sections are not really helpful.  The structure is also not very organized.  The work leading up to the midterm was easy and then the midterm was harder than everyone expected.  Not a class I would recommend.
Definitely recommend.  It's not a "fluff" gen-ed, even though it does not require hard-hitting physics or chem/bio.  Interesting because it pulls off presenting a history of the universe since the Big Bang in the context of cutting edge research.  Prof. Sasselov is at the forefront of his field.  Some students found the lectures boring, but I thought they were great.  If Winston Tao is a TF, try to get him.  He kind of does things his own way, but he is outstanding.  The final exam was incredibly difficult (mostly time-consuming--many students didn't have time to finish), but they will probably write a better one next year.
Do the reading!
This class was somewhat interesting and relatively easy, but it is not very well organized, so it can be frustrating at times.
This is just about the perfect SPU Gen Ed - very interesting, good lectures, not too difficult, and on the whole well-marked. Also, the observation nights were one of the highlights of my semester - the course is worthing taking for these alone!
The subject material and sections are wonderful, but be prepared to be duped by test questions.  Dont think this class is an easy a, because if you dont commit yourself it will be rough going.
not really fair assignments
This class used to be a painless way to fulfill the SPU requirement.  Now, the exams have been made so difficult that the pain has been reintroduced.  Plus, Professor Sasselov's lectures are not interesting and the section component of the course, while a great way to inflate your grade, are not helpful for understanding the course as a whole.  I should have taken something more difficult but also more interesting.
Very easy for students with any (even high school) science background. Actually quite interesting material.
This is the worst class I have taken at Harvard, it's been a constant thorn in my side, and I wish that I could take back the decision to take this class.  It's reputation from last year was that it was a light, painless, entertaining Gen Ed.  I'm sure that after this year the reputation will be drastically changed, but if it hasn't, don't believe the hype!  The Energetic Universe happens at the same time, go across the hall and take that instead.
It's very manageable, and also very interesting. I know more about the universe and the possibility of life in it - it's cool knowledge to have.
If you're a science concentrator looking for an easy and fun elective, take this class.
Do not take this class if you want a rewarding class.
I was expecting this class to be easier than it actually was. There is not much work during the semester, but the exams were very difficult.
It is disorganized and frustrating to be apart of. Do not take it.
I would recommend this class if Winston Tao (and/or his wife Jessie) were teaching this course as a section TF again. Without Winston's sections, this course could've been miserable for me. The content of the course is interesting, although it can get over your head sometimes.
Easy, but lectures are tough to get through and necessary for doing well with little stress.  You will hate your life before the midterm and final but otherwise will be a breeze.
This course is an opportunity to learn from one of the greatest professors in the field of astronomy. On the one hand, it is worthwhile SPU course: material that is not too simplified just because it is a general education course yet not too much time spent in lab that might be difficult for an already full schedule. On the other hand, it is unfortunately very disconnected with the students: lectures run very slow, sections can be boring, and exams unrepresentative of what you would think would be on them. Depending on how the course changes next year, I would at most recommend this course with reservations.
Should be much more interesting than it is.
It suffers from the famous gen-ed illness of being both intellectually childish and difficult to do well in.
I personally feel that basic knowledge of physics would be useful to get through the problem sets for this class. The material is mildly interesting, and Professor Sasselov is definitely an expert with a lot to offer in terms of the most up-to-date information, but it can still be a very dull class. I found myself all too often just trying to get the work "over with" and not enjoying the learning process. I sadly feel like I took little away from the course.
The course material was too broad for any one component of the course to be incredibly interesting.
Avoid.  This course is just awful.  The psets and the exams are awful.  The lectures are God-awful (I could endure the readings more than I could endure these lectures).
Not an easy class. You need to learn a lot of material that is not well taught.
This class is really interesting and teaches you a lot about the Universe. A pretty painless way to get your SPU requirement
it's a pretty painless way to fulfil the gen-ed but lectures are boring
Probably the easiest course I've taken at Harvard. Go to office hours to make sure you get all the HW problems right. Show up to section. Do the extra credit at the end of the semester. That alone should ensure that you'll do well in class. The midterm and final can be much more difficult than most students anticipate. Reading the assigned chapters of A Cosmic Perspective is the key to doing well.
The class is definitely a good class to take to fulfill this gen ed. Very laid back, teaching staff is very accessible and very helpful.
This is probably the easiest way to get the SPU requirement out of the way, if you're not a science person. Lectures are dry, and many people stopped going to them (they're recorded) after a few weeks. Some material is really relevant and interesting, but don't take this class if your goal is to be intellectually stimulated every day- the material required of us is really simple. Overall, it was a pretty good class, and I'd recommend to anyone who wants a mostly painless SPU experience.
This is a great SPU to take. Interesting material and not too much work.
Okay, so you're looking for an easy SPU to take to fulfill your gen ed requirement, and someone you know recommended this course. What should you know going in?Note: I am a gov concentrator and writing/reading comes very easily to me. Math and science do not.It is disorganized. This might be the biggest problem of the course. I didn't get my work back in time to use it for the midterm, the reading assignments weren't posted until a week before the midterm (leaving us to do a month of reading in a week), etc. It is really frustrating to deal with.The "homework" is actually problem sets. Section is actually "lab." Don't let humanities-friendly language distort the realities of this course.Sections are easy and never last the full 2 hours, but you have to go to all of them and do all of the work. Some of the TFs are good; mine was not.The midterm was pretty hard. The math was conceptually very different than material we learned or did for homework. On the other hand, if you like math you probably could have gotten an A without studying. You will probably never go to lecture. Its grueling and too long, and its too difficult to weed out the important information from the unnecessary. There is an extra credit assignment at the end, but it is more limited than it has been in previous versions of the course. Be weary of when the person recommending this course took it, and how the grading worked back then. A positive final note: the course will probably give you a decent understanding of the universe/space and a lot of fun facts to share with people. But surely there are less painful ways to achieve the same thing (like watching COSMOS, etc).
It is poorly organized, in terms of material and assignments. You will leave feeling that you completely wasted your time. However, that is the case for most SPU courses, and this one won't take up too much of your time. There's almost no work, you can skip lecture with no consequences, and the section, while too long, is shorter than a lab. Yes, the exams are fairly difficult (they test quite random material, so even if you've studied, you'll miss things), but most of the class never goes to lecture and skips all the reading, so as long as you pay even a little attention, the curve will take care of you.
This is a great class.
This is an easy SPU class. Lectures can be interesting but are not the most important to attend. Sections are enjoyable. Would recommend.
Okay
This course was poorly organized and it is likely that you will not substantively learn any new material. The course attempted to cover a wide range of physics, chemistry, and biology topics and failed at most. While the course material and the premise of the class was interesting, the utter lack of organization undermined any attempts at real learning.
Take this class if you need a SPU
This class is not too big a time commitment outside of actual class and the occasional pset (only 5 a semester), however the exams are quite difficult since you really have to prepare for them by yourself. It's not too stressful though since their is a pretty lenient grading distribution.
This course requires a lot of work to understand its concepts. It's easy to get good grades, though. The midterm is not too hard. Lectures are boring, but if you go to section and concentrate, this class is do-able.
If you're looking for an easy SPU class, this is probably your best bet.  There's 5 p-sets, of which the last 2 are unnecessarily hard and basically irrelevant.  Nearly 80% of the class never attended lecture because sitting through the dry lectures was almost physically painful and harder than making up the material you missed.  Section was somewhat unrelated to the lecture materials.  The best part of this class is that section counts for 35% of your grade and all you have to do is show up. Be prepared for an easy, but very boring and dry class if you decide to take this.
be enthusiastic about the material - otherwise it will be sad to work among unenthusiastic colleagues
not very structured
LEARN SO MUCH ABOUT SO MANY DIFFERENT THINGS!
Lectures are a bit dry, but overall worth taking. In preparing for exams, definitely read the book because it is a good way to prepare and makes the course material very interesting.
Interesting class, takes some work, but well worth it.
This class is difficult, but is interesting and manageable.
Good SPU.
Easy was to fulfill a SPU. Lectures don't really have much to do with the homeworks or the midterm/final. A lot of the information you need to know comes from section and the book. The book is a savior.
Painless way to fulfill SPU
This class is an easy, stress-free way to satisfy SPU.
Section participation and homework is a big part of the grade, so if you show up to class and do the work you will get a good grade (even if you tank either the midterm or final exam). That being said, I found the content of the course to be dull and tedious. Overall pretty painful for the SPU gened.
Lecture is confusing and exams are hard but section is helpful.
If this course becomes more organized and the students change, it could be really amazing. It's an interesting subject matter and the professor is a good lecturer. The problem with the class is the structure- we weren't given a complete reading schedule or syllabus. Also if you get annoyed with other students acting disrespectful- this class may not be for you. People talked throughout lecture and would talk on their phones in the middle of section. If those two things change it could be really good.
Not a bad way to fulfill SPU. Porfessor Sasselov seems to get lower Q scores than I think is fair. His lectures can be quite dry, but the material is actually pretty interesting and he tells you what is currently going on in the field. Exams are pretty tricky, but there isn't a strong emphasis on physics at all so if you're a humanities concentrator this is a pretty good bet. Also, section attendance is the biggest part of your grade, so if you show up there you'll do ok overall. And one time we had ice cream in section, which was pretty cool. Peter is a great TF - get him if you can.
Probably the most painless Gen Ed I've ever taken. If you can rearrange formulas and plug numbers in, you can succeed in this class. Section is a waste of time, but it isn't really a true "lab" and usually only lasted about an hour each week.
If you put the time in to do the readings its much more interesting. Some of the lectures are interesting and some aren't. The work is not that bad.
This course is very cool and you have the opportunity to do well if you pay attention in section and lecture.
BORING
pretty painless until you get to the midterm and final
The lecture portion of this class is not the most stimulating, and section can be rather long. I thought the material was actually fascinating, so I ended up enjoying the course--but it is very easy to check out and not put any effort in and still be able to do just fine. The homeworks are quite challenging, but the TFs are all incredibly nice and willing to help you figure them out. The midterm and final were also challenging, but if you study and make sure to review all the key topics, you will do just fine. I would recommend this class to anyone who is looking for a painless SPU requirement, and highly recommend it to anyone who is remotely interested in early life and/or the formation of our universe.
I really, really hate studying things in a superficial and disorganized manner, and that's what this class is like. You'll learn little bits of material here and there and then have to regurgitate all of it and do nitpicky/annoying math to boot. I've realized that learning about almost anything can be fun if there's a coherent structure and organization to the way it's taught, but I didn't get that here.
Great gened where you actually learn something and you enjoy learning it.
Be ready for tough exams
Midterm was a lot harder than expected but that was pretty much it.
This course is really amazing! If I had taken this class my freshman year, I would have concentrated in the EPS! Have Mr. Simon Lock be your TF - he is amazing!
If you are interested in astronomy but have no prior knowledge of it, this class is great!  The problem sets aren't too hard and there are only five of them.  The exams are very hard but they do not count for as much as sections/problem sets so if you do well on everything else, you should do fine in the class.  Ended up being a pretty painless way to fulfill SPU.
This class is one of the easier options for fulfilling SPU, but it is not the most interesting or well organized.
The exam is pretty tough, but the rest of this course is totally manageable and interesting even at times.
A great gen ed for people not well-versed in the sciences, and is framed in a very interesting subject.
This course is a great way to fulfill the SPU requirement - not too time consuming, and the Professor and TFs really want you to do well.
Took this class for Gen Ed. If you are looking at it, chances are that you also need an SPU. Don't take this if you are looking for an elective. The concepts are mostly basic but there are many concepts, many disciplines covered. Be prepared to work with mathematical formulae and unit conversions you learned and most likely forgot in high school chem or physics.
This course was good, but not great, and at times difficult although there were some opportunities to improve your grade. Professor Sasselov is amazing and the lectures were interesting to go to and also very informative. However, it will not always help for everything: a huge part of the homework, and a third of the midterm and finals is calculations, which lecture and section doesn't really help much for, particularly towards the second half of the course and you will often have to read the book and figure out what you have to do through practice. The subject is still fascinating, with new discoveries made every year in the search for habitable planets and I would recommend this over other SPU classes. You will learn a lot, but don't expect an easy class.
crush section and homework, do extra credit
Ehh.  It's an SPU gen ed.  It's relatively painless.  Almost everything is super easy.  You may feel like you're being treated like a middle schooler again, but that's the price you pay for a manageable SPU, I guess.
Please do not take this class. Section is hit or miss. If you have a great TF, it's manageable. Unfortunately, a large part of the class got stuck with really bad TFs that made it insufferable. It's pretty easy to get a good grade -- just make sure to study for the exams as it's pretty easy to fail them. Based on the way they curve the course, exams end up not being worth too much but they can certainly bring you down a letter grade.
Lectures are either interesting and completely unrelated to what we're supposed to be learning or completely disorganized and impossible to follow. Section is pretty painless, and section assignments and homework are fairly easy. Exams, on the other hand, are super difficult. Be prepared to learn everything either in section from your TF, or on your own, from the textbook.
It is a simple way to meet an annoying requirement.
this class is painfully boring but the coursework is generally light and the grading policy is very generous
Sometimes it feels like you have to teach a lot of the material to yourself for the homework because lectures aren't always easy to follow. However, other than a few difficult questions on the homework, the class was relatively painless. Lectures could be a bit weighty but the section leaders do a very good job at reviewing lecture content. This isn't a bad way to get rid of the SPU requirement.
This was a great option as an SPU for people with some interest in the topic and without any real science background. Highly recommended for humanities/ social science students.
Like most "easy" courses, if you don't do any work or pay attention you probably will find the exams very difficult. The homeworks aren't bad and the lectures aren't worth going to, but section is reasonably useful and enjoyable.
This call was the vey time-consuming for a gen ed
You need an SPU. This one is definitely not the worst you can do. As a non-science person, I found it to be accessible but not so oversimplified as to be devoid of content. It does a good job of touching on a lot of different science topics (geology, chemistry, physics, astronomy, biology) and making them all tie into the larger themes of the class in interesting ways. Prof. Sasselov isn't the most charismatic lecturer and occasionally goes off topic, but he's incredibly smart and for the most part is good at relating the very latest research in the field to the course.
Definitely take this class as a manageable and easy gen-ed. However, try to make sure you know people in your section so you can do the group work well. Group work is a little annoying.
it is a great class, and it is a lot of fun. a lot of people complained about the section activities (some of them for good reasons), but i learned so much about planets and life. very thought provoking indeed. the teaching staff is VERY VERY knowledable and dedicated. so is the professor. not too much work, although i wouldn't say its super easy either. in anycase, i recommend it.
not a bad way to fill SPU requirment
Professor Sasselov is too intelligent to teach this course to non-science concentrators. He is clearly on another level of intelligence, which leads him to believe the class is following him when we are not. Really not as easy as advertised. I would recommend another SPU class.
As far as SPUs for non-sciency people go, this is a good one. Hopefully lectures become more relevant in future iterations of this course. But the assignments and the grading scheme are designed to help you get points. Also, I always enjoyed going to section, and my TF was incredibly willing to help outside class if I was confused (yay Simon Lock!).
It's a very interesting class if you want to learn about outer space. It's not really that much work, but the homework can be tricky sometimes.
SPU30 was a very fun yet informative general education course. I really liked the material. The exams and problem sets are very fair. Definitely one of the best SPU gen eds!
This class is relatively better than other SPU's because the bulk of the final grade comes from section attendance and participation, though there is pressure since section is graded on a 10-point scale. The midterm and final were fair, just study. Also, sometimes assignments were assigned quickly with little time, like a NASA debate for section a day before your section. Besides, that it was good--a lot of the material was really interesting.
It is a good class if you are interested in the planetary phenomenon.
This class can be very enjoyable and a great learning experience, but do not take if you don't enjoy math-heavy problem sets.
This course exposes you to the forefront of astronomy - Kepler data, exoplanets, exomoons - and helps you answer fascinating questions: how would you assess the habitability of other planets?  What does the current search for extraterrestrial life involve?  My one complain is this:  the lectures are a half hour too long.  The material covered is interesting and Professor is very nice and it helps that he truly loves the material, but you will grow bored after the first hour.  I attended the vast majority of the lectures and must be clear: with the exception of the guest lectures, nothing justifies the length of these lectures.
There are many reasons not to take this course; at the core, SPU 30 presents a case of false advertising. The course is titled 'Life as a Planetary Phenomenon;' the word 'life' appears five times in the course catalog's description. I enjoyed biology in high school, and thought this course would include plenty, making it a great way to get through the GenEd requirement I was least looking forward to. Be warned: you will not find biology here. SPU30 makes a nod to the concept of natural selection and covers some basic concepts of cell structure and phylogeny, beyond which you will find a never-ending MATH-fest. If you take this course, you will be doing lots of MATH. MATH is what you will be doing here. Your friend may have told you that this course is an easy way to get rid of the SPU requirement. Your friend is a moron, or else viciously leading you into a trap. The problem sets are egregious, requiring leaps in logic which a physicist might accomplish on a good day. They have little to do with the example problems provided in the lackluster textbook. This is not a class for humanities concentrators looking to coast. I could go on, but I suspect these issues and others are problems more with the SPU GenEd than with this specific class. If you insist on enrolling, trudge through your p-sets, pray that you get an outstanding TF, and inflation will send you away with a non-fatal grade.
This class is a joke. It's a fifth grade science class basically. You never have to go to lecture, as you can learn everything you need from the sections, and in addition, the lectures are incredibly boring anyway so you won't want to go anyway. It has a very low workload but the information is still pretty interesting. Definitely a gem of a gen ed.
Class can be pretty boring. Exams aren't easy. Don't underestimate it
This class is an easy way to get rid of your SPU, but I would absolutely not take it unless you need an SPU and can't get into/ schedule Natural Disasters or PrimNav. It was pretty brutal a lot of the time. Luckily, the grading scheme makes it easy to get an A even if you don't do that well on the two exams, and there are only 5 psets, one of which is a book review. Lectures are really boring and nobody goes to them.
My friend told me this would be an interesting way to fulfill SPU. He lied. This class can't be much more boring even though the material is intriguing. No one goes to lecture, and they aren't wrong by this. Section is a little better though. Look elsewhere if you want to fulfill SPU, but there aren't many good ones. BTW Primitive Navigation isn't the way to go either supposedly.
I have mixed feelings. As someone who has no background in math/science, I was surprised how much I enjoyed the subject matter and the way it was structured in this course. Professor Sasselov's lectures were somewhat dry (though I appreciated his many efforts to make the class engaging), and, honestly, few people attended. The exams were unreasonably difficult, but this is made up for with an absurd amount of extra credit and very high section grades. At the end of the day, I think it's a fine way to fulfill SPU. It's not perfect, but it could be worse.
It is a fair course, but you should definitely be interested in the subject or else it can be a bit dry
Good class to fulfill science requirement
This course is an interesting mix of physics, biology and astronomy. Psets are relatively computational. Sections are very interesting and hands-on. Probably my favorite part of the course.
This class is pretty mathy. I wish I had taken a different SPU.
If you want a senior spring course that is interesting and low work load, take this class. I enjoyed learning about planets and the universe and thought the class was really interesting and eye-opening
Midterm and final very difficult.
If you are uncertain of your ability vis-a-vis math or science generally, don't take this course. The math sucks and it just feels like an extended memory test.
Probably the best SPU you'll find. Neither boring nor difficult, as long as you put in a few hours a week of study.
This is a solid course for anyone looking to satisfy their SPU requirement. The material is interesting and gives you a new understanding of the history of life on Earth and the possibility of life elsewhere in the universe. The course is not difficult as long as you know how to do basic algebra and pay some basic attention to lectures or readings.
So much fun, and honestly learned a lot. Highly recommend, one of my favorites. Very easy.
This course is much harder than you think it will be and requires much more time than you'd imagine.
It can be easy, but only if you do the work. That may be a paradox.
It's pretty math-heavy and lectures are terrible.
This class is a pretty good SPU. 35% of the grade is section attendance, and there is a lot of extra credit for section available. The midterm and final are somewhat challenging, but it does not matter because of the section scores. The sections are long (2hrs) and kind of a waste of time. I felt like I was jumping through useless hoops at the end of the course, which werent teaching anything. However, the subject matter is actually really interesting, and it gives a good look into what scientists are doing in their search for exoplanets/life.
I would definitely recommend this class to anyone looking for a light and interesting SPU. Although lectures were a bit dry, sections include very fun and interesting activities. The teaching staff, especially Zoe, is incredible in lending help on homework and preparation for the midterm and final. The class only requires short weekly readings, 5 math-based psets total, and section participation.
GREAT class that is super interesting.  Fulfills a gen ed and the professor and TFs are all super nice.  10/10 would recommend
The material was easy in lecture and section, but the tests came out of left field.  The materials given to us to prepare did not match up with the exams at all.
This class is very very interesting. All the teaching staff really want you to do well in the class and they are all super nice. Professor Sasselov is very passionate about what he is teaching, which is very refreshing. The course is also relatively well organized.
I was dreading fulfilling the SPU requirement (I am by no means a science person) -- but this course ended up being one of my favorites. The material was fascinating, the lectures were interesting, the assignments/tests were fair, and the teaching staff was excellent. I cannot recommend this highly enough for the SPU requirement.
If you're not good at math-based problem solving, be ready to learn/brush up quickly. The takeaways about Earth and life and their relationships to the universe around them are meaningful, but sometimes they get clouded by the work of it.
Lectures are very boring, and assignments are usually much harder than the material taught in lecture
Take this course, do the homework and extra credit, go to lecture (maybe) and get Adam as your TF.
Guys, take this class! The lectures are moving slowly, but if you actually listen and do the readings you can get a lot out of it. Calculating the mass of Jupiter throught the orbital speed of its moons is also just a cool feeling. Seriousely, the workload is very manageable, the teaching staff is great and you'll get to build ice cream planets in section and learn about stuff that you never thought you'd be able to understand (assuming you're not a sciency person).
I honestly didn't expect to love this course as much as I did, but this was one of my better course experiences at Harvard. If you put in the time to do the readings and attend lectures, you will learn so much about an especially exciting field, and your perspective about the world--and, indeed, the universe!--will widen. I thought especially the problem sets and exams were well-designed and appropriating challenging.
Only need to go to section because it covers everything. Quite self consciously aware of itself as a requirement. No one wants to be there. Thus is gen-ed.
The first part of the class and the last part of the class are exciting.  Professor Sasselov's demonstrations in his initial lectures are both illustrative and humorous.  One of the final lectures is a particular privilege to attend: a spirited debate between Professor Sasselov, President Emeritus Lawrence Summers and Juan Enriquez, a local biotech venture capitalist.  The middle of the course is mainly biology and natural history, and the teaching methods are not as strong in these areas.  The mathematical sections of homework problems are rewarding to work through and do a good job of simulating in simplified manner current techniques in astronomy.  The sections are mostly tedious, but microscope work in the Life Sciences labs are engaging.  The course takes the possibility of other life in the universe seriously and is a survey of the scientific tools humans have to theorize whether it exists.
It's a really good SPU that is both easy and engaging. It's not very time consuming even with thesis, easy to understand and the curve was pretty good. You not only are likely to do well but you also learn a lot about how planets form, when the world began etc.
For the love of god, be in Adam's section. Adam is the best TF I've had on this campus. I looked forward to his section every week because he was so great, otherwise this class would have been hellish.
it can get a little granular at points
A good SPU class to fill your gen ed, but I had an amazing TF so I don't know what the course would be like with one that was mediocre/subpar.
No lab component so sections consist of one hour of lecture from your TF and one hour working on a  short packet with your classmates. Sasselov is very nice and his lectures have great structure and are generally well organized. Plus the material is super cool. Highly recommend this class for the SPU requirement.
This class is a fun and painless way to fulfill your SPU requirement. They do not expect much chem, bio, or physics knowledge. Also, it's cool learning about space and the origins of life.
The course material was very interesting, although I much preferred completing the assigned readings to attending lecture and section. I thought that the readings explained the material more efficiently and more effectively. That being said, for a GenEd course, this is a good option. The workload is quite manageable, and the topics of the course are quite relevant!
Best SPU requirement filler
If you want to take an SPU that is an easy A, this is your course. Take it with friends and you can suffer together. The course is very poorly organized, but grading is kind. You won't learn anything worthwhile, but maybe you can understand your physics friends over meals a little easier. In sum: SPU 30 is everything that is wrong with the GenEd program, but there aren't really any good alternatives for SPU so suck it up and save your GPA.
Great SPU! You learn a lot and it is presented well.
This is an interesting class and has engaging sections.
This is the SPU to take if you're a reader and not a sciencer! The content is NOT as hard and intimidating as it seems. The first few weeks I was pleasantly surprised b/c I really went in feeling nervous AF -- what do I know about planets??orbits??cosmic wind??!!?! I was really stressed but it was very accessible and the teaching staff is great! Lectures are recorded, it was a solid SPU
Horribly boring and stupid material, but since you're forced to take a SPU it's bearable. But BE WARNED: it calls it a "section" but it's really a 2-hour lab. If you want to avoid a lab (which I would highly recommend), take something else.
This class is absurdly and exhaustingly easy.
There are very few good options to fulfill the SPU requirement, but this is a pretty painless way to do it. There is no lab, section participation (e.g. attendance) is 35 percent of your grade, there are extra credit opportunities, and lecture and the readings aren't really necessary to do well in the course if you go to section and do the p-sets and study a little for the exams. Dimitar is also very nice and clearly cares a lot about the course and the lectures.
Easy
Good to learn about astronomical and physical processes that shaped the planet.
It's a decent way to fulfill a Gen Ed, but honestly it was harder than expected. I had a really really busy semester and was expecting the class to be kind of a joke, and now I'm probably gonna pay for that with a decently strong hit to my GPA.
Truly mind-blowing materialif you liked reading/watching Carl Sagan's Cosmos, love thinking about concepts like what defines "life" or how we came to exist as an organism in this universe, or how the human species should deal with the possibility of finding other life forms, you will probably love the material of this class.  The lectures are a bit dry, but ultimately interesting, and the sections really helped explain topics and explore them in a fun way.  I also got to observe water bears (tardigrades) "play" under a microscope for the first time ever and it was one of the coolest experiences I've had in my life.Do all the little assignments (readings, section attendance, extra credit, homework + go to office hours to get help) and you will be fine in the midterm and final exam.  Try to actually enjoy the learning experience, and don't listen to the fools in senior spring who are only in this class to bash it.  You could always do natural disasters or primitive navigation or whatever, but this class is probably the only SPU to actually blow your mind conceptually.
Keep up with the lectures! and do all the extra credit
Class is semi-interesting. Typical Gen-Ed, decent way to knock out SPU. Professor is world famous but lectures are dry. I would watch them later and put them in fast forward.
You're here because you got lotteried out of Natty D. And I'm telling you-- look elsewhere. Although the time commitment is definitely a plus (lecture is basically optional), it's probably the only one. The lecture I went to once was incomprehensible. The last two homeworks, in the theme of course, seems like they come from another planet. The midterm is the same way. Other than Zoe being a great TF, steer clear of this course as your SPU.
I can think of worse ways to fulfill the SPU requirement.
Suffers from all the problems of the Gen Ed system. But it isn't as terrible as some claim.
A great way to fulfill the SPU requirement.  They sections are 2 hours but they hardly ever went over an hour and the material was very interesting. Zoe is an awesome TF
This class was so so so boring and tedious, but probably isn't the hardest way to satisfy SPU.
It isn't an easy course, but it's actually really interesting. If you're willing to put in the work then take it! It's not curved, so take as many chances to do extra credit assignments as you can.
This is what a gen-ed should be. Not too difficult but also not a joke. Regular, but not overwhelming work. Genuinely interesting material, and the section was actually pretty cool (and rarely the full 2 hours)
Fun way to fulfill the SPU requirement. Provides the space to learn without having to stress too much about a grade. That being said, you will have to work. Respect the class, do the work, and you will do fine and find yourself enjoying things you never thought you would.
This class was, in my opinion, a gem. If you go to lecture, the professor is super passionate and sometimes entertaining. You don't actually have to go to lecture as you learn everything in section (I did feel pretty bad for the professor for poor lecture attendance). I really did learn a lot, and the psets/work is pretty easy until the last couple topics. The midterm and final were pretty hard, but curved. Plus, participation and attendance is weighted so greatly that you can still get a good grade with relatively poor test grades.
pretty hard!
This class was fine. The final few homeworks were kinda tough though.
Super easy SPU as long as you attend section, do homeworks, and prepare a bit for the examinations. Would highly recommend if you want to fulfill SPU in an easy way but still want to learn a good deal about astronomy.
Good for gened because its easy to get an A, but I didn't really understand anything.
This is a great way to accomplish SPU. EASIER THAN NATURAL DISASTERS.
I went into this class having a fairly 'sciency' background in high school, and as a result, it wasn't very challenging at all. It covers a lot of interesting material (bringing in contemporary findings) and my section leader (Zoe) was amazing, which made it worthwhile. If you're looking for a more direct introduction to astrophysics, I would recommend checking out one of the astro classes, but if you are generally interested in these topics and would like to take a relatively painless class that is interesting at the same time, I would choose this one.
so poorly organized, felt like all of middle school science in one semester
This is not a GEM. I would not suggest taking this course if you're looking for a GPA booster but would rather say that it is in your best interest to take this course if you want to learn more about the universe and a better explanation for all of the phenomenons that take place within.
