Go to lecture, do at least some of the reading, and it's an easy A. And kinda cool too, learning about earthquakes and volcanoes and all.
A good and interesting way to fulfill Science A/SPU.  Prof. Shaw is a really good lecturer.
I figured out what my concentration was going to be by taking this class-EPS.  Even if you are taking it for Gen-Ed, it is pretty easy and interesting; especially if science is not your thing.
The class is easy if you do the work. Don't expect to get by on doing nothing.
a very interesting spu if you are not the strongest math student
Make sure you go to lecture.
Easily the best of all the Science Cores/Gen. Ed. you can take.  Painless, interesting, with fun experiments that keep it engaging.  Professor is a talented lecturer who keeps things relevant but informative.
The subject matter is very important, current, and interesting, but the course (likely because it is its first year) can seem a bit uneven at times. But I actually value the information I learned in this class.
Condescending professors and unpredictable examinations
hard class but definitely worth it.
This class is not easy but it is amazing.  It is extremely interesting and so relevant to everyone's lives.  You will be surprised how much you learn, and the things you can explain to your friends about the natural phenomenon and disasters that occur every day.
Its more work than other science A classes.
AWESOME - I learned so much and feel like I missed out by not taking more geology/earth classes.
I haven't liked a science class since middle school, but this one was very fun and interesting, and I didn't mind doing the little amount of work it required of me. The teaching staff was great, and they did a great job of generating enthusiasm all the way through.
This class is engaging, and the labs/demonstrations are fun.
Easy and fun. Great way to do a core!
This is an interesting course - even for a non-science person.
I planned to take this course since coming to Harvard and it was well worth the wait until senior spring! Professor Shaw is an amazing and engaging lecturer, and the whole teaching staff really cares about making sure students understand the concepts and their relative importance. The work is straightforward, relatively simple and rarely time consuming. The experiments and demonstrations are very interesting and helpful for understanding concepts. And the content of the course is particularly relevant.
this class is awesome. great way to fulfill physical science gen ed!
I would recommend this course to students seeking a science core that will expand their knowledge of natural disasters but does not require advanced mathematical or scientific knowledge.  I learned a great deal about natural disasters in this course, and I appreciated the professor's emphasis not just on learning about the physics of these disasters but also on learning about how to prevent them and mitigate potential risks.  I also think that the lab component of the course, in which we modeled natural disasters using GIS technology, provided a great application of our knowledge with interdisciplinary applications (political scientists, for example, use GIS technology as well).  Although the readings were somewhat dry, they weren't an essential component of the course, and I would recommend this class to students looking for an easy, fun, and enjoyable course from which you will still learn a great deal about natural disasters.
One of the best classes at Harvard! The professor is amazing, and every lecture is interesting and filled with cool demonstrations. The lecture notes and lab questions make learning the material easy and enjoyable. If you need a Science of the Physical Universe Class, definitely take this one!
This course is a somewhat easy way to fulfill the Science of the Physical Universe requirement if you are not interested in taking a difficult math and science-based course, but it will not be a particularly riveting selection.  Though the sections provide enjoyable hands-on activities like exploding a trash can volcano and creating rice-and-bean landslides, the lectures are dry.  Looking back, I'm not sure it was a good idea to use one of my precious Harvard courses on this class, though I do know more about natural disasters now and it was relatively painless.
this is one of the easier science a courses. it is also interesting and relevant, and is taught by people that care a great deal about the subject.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Shaw is great, and I am looking to take more classes with him in the future.
The labs are helpful and fun. The midterm was hard, so make sure you go to all of the lectures and study hard.
You get only what you put into the course - after reviewing the materials very extensively for the final, I realized just how much really interesting and relevant material this course offers. Interesting material!
Easy and interesting!
This course was a lot of fun! Professor Shaw is an engaging lecturer and the in-class demonstrations were awesome--we saw tornadoes in class, heard seismic waves, and watched dramatic videos about landslides, hurricanes, and volcanoes. Sasha was the best TF--she's so sweet and cool! The labs were easy to do and the only work until exam time when you realized how much material you had to cover--but the professor and TFs do their very best to support you with review sessions and review slides :)
The exams really asked you to apply the material beyond the basic concepts. There's a lot of material covered. Don't expect it to be easy.
This is a great class.  It's really interesting, the lectures teach the material very well and clearly, and it requires very little work if you attend lecture.
If you are a humanities concentrator and need to fulfill SPU, TAKE THIS COURSE. I absolutely loved it. I mean this in the nicest way possibly, but I often likened this course to a middle-school biology class. Professor Shaw is a great, enthusiastic and down to earth lecturer, and I found every lecture interesting. Labs are pretty simply and not too time-consuming, and assignments only consisted of 10 or less questions due the next class (which could be easily done in the hours before lab). All information for mid-terms and the final can be found on lecture slides and notes and from review sessions, and extra credit in-class quizzes pop up occasionally throughout the semester to give kids points on their midterms.
This class is dry and boring. It was a waste of the time I could have been spent actually learning and being inspired by SPU. Expectations are unclear. Labs are unhelpful. Do not bother buying the textbook as the reading is contrary to John Shaw's teaching and will get you into trouble on the exams. If you must take this course, attend lecture, attempt to stay awake, and do the bare minimum.
If your a strong exam taker and have strong exam prep skills this is a good gen ed class
Not hard, stay on top of lectures, have fun at lab.
It's an interesting course, but don't skip lectures, since that's where all the information on exams comes from. Make sure to stay on top of the material (there is a lot).
This is an awesome course!!!! Despite the large amount of material, it is all fascinating material and Prof. Shaw is an awesome lecturer. Take this class is nature interests you/ if you watched Animal Planet and Nat Geo and Discovery channel as a kid.
I would let them know that there is a lot of information is to be covered, and none of it is trivial. During the semester it seems like the workload isn't heavy, but it is necessary to have constant studying to not get lost in the material come midterm/final
Great way to fulfill the SPU requirement. There is a lot of information, but if you don't make the class a complete joke, it is very easy and you can learn some interesting things. Labs are an easy way to buffer test grades with high scores.
i would recommend if you're looking for a science requirement and you are not a science person.
Easy class that is really interesting. It discusses issues that are relevant today.
a good gen-ed if you're not a science person. you do definitely still learn something, but the labs are not very challenging (eg. most people didn't know what a histogram was in the lab that i was in), so if you're looking for something easy, this is pretty good. also, there are extra credit opportunities too, just in case you mess up or something
Definitely a great way to fill a gen-ed requirement.
It is a great and painless way to fulfill the Science of Physical Universe gen. ed. especially if you don't like/not good at physics like I am.
Labs are an enormous waste of time
This class is really interesting, and one of the few classes I've taken here that I really believe I'll carry what I've learned with me past graduation. It's cool to know why things happen the way they do. The midterm was rough, but the final was alright. Section is 2 hours a week, but a lot of times you don't need the full two hours. A great class and a great instructor.
Best way to fulfill Gen Ed requirement for SPU. It does take a lot of studying for the midterm and final, but the material is very manageable and interesting.
Very interesting subject matter, and you learn more than simply about "natural disasters." Section/lab component is an unfortunate part of the course.
The course is pretty easy as long as you GO TO LECTURE! Labs are a great way to boost your grade, so pay attention and do them well.
Really interesting class and not that hard. There's very little outside work because you finish most of the work in lab.
This class is so much fun. The labs are awesome, very hands on, and the GIS technology isn't bad because they walk you through everything. Class is pretty interesting and the extra credit is an added bonus if you actually attend lecture. It is a lot of material but overall great class.
This class is extremely easy in terms of concepts and the amount of work it takes.  What can be hard is getting a good grade one exams which can be nitpicky.  Like any class with a grade based solely on a midterm and a final the whole thing can be very hit or miss.  If you study hard for the exams and "over answer" every exam question ( include every detail and procesS), you should get a good grade.  The pluses are no work outside of class and easy material.  The drawback is that it may not be the easiest graded class.
A fairly enjoyable, low-stress class.
I thoroughly enjoyed this class! You learn a lot of neat things about volcanoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, asteroids, etc. There are some neat explosive and loud demos that are a lot of fun and actually useful in understanding the material. The course does not require a lot of work outside of lab or lecture, but be prepared to study a lot for the midterm and final. They can be tough if you don't go to lecture or don't bother to understand the material. The teaching team is great though and want everyone to succeed so they offer lots of office hours, review sessions and extra credit opportunities, you just need to actually attend class to know that such help is available. The people who don't like this class are those who never went to lecture. As long as you actually attend lecture, this class will be stellar.
Pay attention in lecture! That's literally all you need to do in this course.
Good for students who are not science people.  The first half of the course is extremely interesting.  However, lectures can seem a little long in the second half of the course and the labs are mostly done on the computer which are tedious
This class is interesting and applicable to everyday life. It is interesting to know how some of these natural phenomena happen and the class is also not very challenging.
Lectures can be boring. Cool subject matter though. We weren't really prepared for the midterm. And the labs are fun!
If you're not interested in natural disasters, this is a really hard class to sit through. The labs are also very long and tedious. If you are interested, though, this is definitely a class where you'll walk away learning a lot about natural phenomena.
This class is generally pretty harmless, but the exams are not super easy (and somewhat not representative of the course material) so don't expect an easy Gen Ed A/A-.  The course teaches you about the processes that trigger natural disasters, but not a ton of time is spent on how relief, response, and preparation measures are formulated, which I think is a major downfall of the class.
The midterm was harder than expected. Otherwise, stay on top of your labs and it should be a relatively painless Gen Ed.
It's a fairly painless way to fulfill a Gen Ed, with less than a half hour of work outside of class, but study for the midterm and final.
The class was fairly easy and fun, but I learned enough that I never felt I was wasting my time.
This was the worst class I've taken at Harvard. Despite the competence of its lecturer, the course materials were not helpful to learn the subject matter and section often wasn't relevant to the concepts we would be tested on.
An easy, fun course.
its hard to learn everything and instructions for midterms/exams can be vague at times
Make sure you really review the lecture slides.
This class is scary! It's interesting to learn about how all these major disasters happen, but also really scary. BUT GO TO LECTURE. You absolutely need to in order to do well and not make yourself crazy studying for the midterm and final. There's a lot of info, and the exams are not easy.
It's a pretty painless way to get your SPU credit.  It's also really applicable to real world situations (as Gen Eds are supposed to be). Just go to lecture and pay attention and you will be all set for the midterm and final (the teaching staff is really cool and they are not out to trick anybody).
This course has gotten harder!! The exams were harder! Do not blow this course or the lectures off, thinking it is an easy A!
This class wasn't too difficult, and it is clear that they want you to do well, especially because the TFs and professor are very nice and helpful.  However, I feel like the lectures sometimes get dry and boring, and are generally too long.  Also, the labs often felt meaningless and just a waste of time.  The tests are fair-- not that easy, and you should know your stuff, but again, they're not out to trick you.
This class is amazing if you are a humanities person (or probably a STEM person, too), as it neither panders or intimidates. It is very interesting and graded quite fairly. Definitely take this class!
This is a GREAT balance between really interesting, engaging and relevant material and a very very light workload.
Great for people taking this to get rid of a Gen Ed who haven't studied science in a while/at all - the course doesn't ask too much of you as far as work goes and a lot of the information is pretty interesting/relevant. Lectures are where all of the material and exam questions come from, so attend them and take notes, and the labs are straightforward. The professor is pretty funny and very knowledgeable and the teaching team is really nice and very helpful. This was a super painless way to get rid of my SPU Gen Ed.
Go to class. Do the lab thoroughly. You'll learn something useful. This is a great SPU class for humanities concentrators to take.
cool class especially for spu take it
Natty D is one of the top three classes I have taken at Harvard. It is fun and has a real world significance that is probably unparalleled.
SPU 12 teaches on a very interesting and relevant topic while allowing you to fulfill a requirement
If you are looking for a painless and good SPU, this is it! It's not only painless, but you will actually learn something. Professor Meade is super nice and fantastic at explaining things. Sometimes lectures and lab can be a little boring, but overall, I think that this is definitely one of the best organized and taught gen eds at Harvard.
look, this class is a requirement for SPU, and everybody treats it like that. don't expect too much from it. I wish there was more to be said, but unfortunately there's not.
This is a great way to get an SPU credit, it is a harmless class that if you show up to lecture and lab you will do well.  Also, material is interesting and applicable to the world we live.
Labs are tedious and you don't get much from them, but the lectures are relatively interesting as is the content.
Good SPU genEd.  It is really nice to understand why certain natural disasters happen.
This is a great class! I'd never done science before, but really enjoyed learning about natural disasters. I would definitely take it if you are looking to fulfill your SPU gen ed.
good class. not a breeze but definitely not too tricky if you commit to it. take it with a friend if you can.  this stuff is very applicable!
You learn a lot about every natural disaster and historic examples, which are interesting and useful to know. Going to lecture and paying attention makes a huge difference. The labs and homework are  pretty easy, so the midterm and final are where you have to do well if you want a good grade.
A good way to fulfill SPU requirement
Extremely painless way to get rid of your SPU requirement. The labs you can get done from start to end in less than the two hours that are required for lab if you are efficient. There is no need to buy the textbook or read it - just go to lecture and pay attention.
This class is an extremely interesting way to complete your Physical Science Gen Ed requirement. I came in thinking it might be kind of boring, but the material is fascinating, and I learned so much. It really changed the way I look at different natural disasters. And there is very little math, making it pretty painless.
This class is probably one of the most enjoyable and painless Gen Ed courses I've taken at Harvard.  It's really a general Earth Science course that's then applied to actual natural disasters, which makes the material very interesting.  It's also very well taught, Professor Meade and all of the TF's know their stuff.  The labs can run over by a bit, but are generally interesting and not very time consuming outside of class.  I would highly recommend this course, I think it's the best SPU Gen Ed, especially for non-science concentrators.
This is a very fair class that you will do well in if you go to lecture and labs. nothing is surprising and if you pay attention you will learn without having to put a lot of effort into it. the material is not complex and the teaching staff are very friendly and helpful. be prepared to spend a lot of time talking about earthquakes, since Professor Meade specializes in them.
Fairly good gen-ed, just make sure to go to lecture and be detailed on labs and exams as they are quick to take off points.
Great SPU that provides you with some applicable real world knowledge.
This is a great way to learn about how mother nature works- unlike many other classes, you will learn material that's practical and useful outside of the classroom. This class will definitely provide a comprehensive view of the natural disaster-problems we have in the world today. Lectures are VERY important, as the bulk of the material on the exams were from lecture material. I would HIGHLY recommend this class!
This class is fairly easy though the tests will wreck you if you try to "game" them. (A.k.a. if you think they'll emphasize one thing more than another and study accordingly. Study everything.) Also, unless you like following tedious, step-by-step instructions for two hours on a computer program that crashes every half hour, the computer-based labs are miserable. Regardless, it's not a bad way to fulfill the SPU requirement, especially if you fear math and real science. The concepts are fairly simple, but the tests require memorization.
This class is a great way to fill your SPU requirement! So interesting and you learn so much! Not just a relatively easy course, but also incredibly informative.
Don't take this class if you are looking for an easy SPU
Perfect Gen Ed! Right amount of work, not at all stressful, and interesting lectures. All you have to do to do well is to go to lectures and remain relatively awake. This is a topic that is always interesting and always current - Hurricane Sandy happened during the semester and we were able to talk about it while it was all over the news.
If you are a humanities concentrator, this is probably the best SPU you can take.
This class is really manageable. Labs are mundane but easy. The material is interesting. You will learn a lot without any stress.
Not very difficult if you pay attention in lecture and take studying for the exams seriously.
This course is extremely interesting and easy if you apply yourself.
Decent class.  Not a lot of work, but need to pay attention and a put some work in to do well on the tests
Very painless gen ed. It is a really interesting class and it helps you learn where and where not to live based on the likelihood of natural disasters.
Great class. Very interesting and well fleshed out.
My year it was a relatively easy class. Harvard likes to change classes that people think are easy, so be forewarned if you decide to take this because it's easy. If you are curious about earth sciences, this is a great first look.
This is a fantastic class and I would recommend it to everyone!
Take this class! For many reasons, COUNTLESS reasons. I LOVED IT1) your background in science - if you're really not a science person, this class will not be hard at all, and as long as you try hard it will be easy to succeed, and it is a good way to achieve the SPU credit. Also, if you like general science but not the very theoretical/mathematical physics and chemistry, this course is great, since it goes deep into environmental/earth science (more of the qualitative, a little bit of easy quantitative physics), and a little bit of space science, but mostly about really palpable, visual, dangerous, and real-life situations that are happening around the world today and one should really be aware of. Disasters are a cause of death around the world, and effects can potentially become severe certain years for specific factors which you learn about (such as abnormally warm waters in the Atlantic resulting in the 2005 catastrophic hurricane year). 2) The staff are just amazing. Extremely nice, and helpful. Professor Meade, though he can get just a little bit monotonous but anyone would interpret that from any teacher after 1 hour 30 minutes of lecture, is AMAZINGLY well-knowledged, has a particular sense of humor, and is very nice. The staff are all very knowledgeable too, and really can give thorough answers and clarifications. 3) The workload is not bad. There are only 2 tests, Midterm and Final, which are VERY FAIR and relatively easy if you really study the BASICS. If you know, for example, what causes volcanoes to be explosive in certain regions and not others, you WILL do good in that question. Labs are very fun, real-life, simulate real hazards. You get to visualize hazards (such as in a very cool hurricane visualization lab), simulate disasters, and predict their direct effects on society. Lab workload is not bad and beyond the 2 hours in lab a week, at most 20 minutes are needed to complete lecture-based Thought & Knowledge questions. Lab review sessions of previous lecture basics and for midterm/final are INSTRUMENTAL. They basically tell you what really is what matters for the basics of understanding natural disasters. To succeed in the course, go to Lecture and really pay attention to the basics behind the disasters, which are intriguing, take labs seriously, go to review sessions, and DO NOT read the book, it is not necessary. YOU WILL LOVE THE CLASS!
Course material isn't really hard, it's just a ton of stuff to memorize. The labs are tedious and a waste of time, but there are ten of them and a large part of your grade, so you should put in effort. Exams are mainly short answer with a few multiple choice questions, which was kind of annoying for me. Basically, only took this because I needed SPU (like almost everyone else in here), and it's probably better and definitely easier than most other SPU classes out there.
It is not time consuming, but the amount of material to learn is a lot, and concepts are not really gone over very much.
interesting course worth taking
This is an extremely easy option for the SPU Gen Ed, with the caveat that the class is not curved. Prof Meade's lectures are excellent and he has a genuine passion for the subject. You will learn a lot about earthquakes. Go to lecture not because it is necessary to do well but because it is the place where learning takes place. Labs on the other hand are about following a long list of rather mindless instructions. The course would benefit from more engagement with basic science.
This class is fun, engaging, and entertaining.  Professor Meade is so passionate about the subject, so it's hard not to get excited about the material as well!  Labs are very straightforward and not very time consuming.  The workload is very light - aside from labs, the midterm, and the final, there were no additional assignments.  Overall, this class is incredibly interesting and relevant, even if you are not a science person.  At the very least, it's a painless way to fulfill the Gen Ed.
It's a fun course about natural disasters! If you have any interest in the subject at all, you should definitely try this course
This was a great way to fulfill the SPU gen ed requirement. The course is interesting and not too difficult.
SPU 12 is a wonderfully informative class which you leave after gaining knowledge. (Applicable knowledge! How rare!) Although labs vary (GIS computer labs are straightforward following directions, contrasted with shooting paintball guns, stimulating volcanic eruptions with garbage cans filled with water and the like), lecture is ALWAYS GREAT with Professor Meade (so enthusiastic, especially when covering earthquakes, his field of expertise!). If you go to lecture, the midterm should be fine: multiple choice and short answers. Would totally recommend to anyone looking for an SPU/interested in natural disasters + looking for an elective/...anyone.
Even though you feel thoroughly comfortable with the concepts discussed in class, you might be rudely shocked at the exams, which seem to be based off a much more advanced/ detail-oriented syllabus.
Good way to fill your SPU requirement if you're not a scientist.
Awesome class. Professor Meade is knowledgeable, funny, and a great lecturer. Labs are really fun and interesting too. Definitely take this class, especially if you need to fulfill SPU
This class was very fun and enjoyable. The lectures were well-organized and covered very interesting and pressing topics about our changing earth. Some of the labs were hands-on and super exciting. The coursework is not too heavy. Take this class!
Great way to get your SPU credit. Professor Meade is wonderful and enthusiastic - his enthusiasm really gets you excited!
This class is overall a fun way to fulfill the science requirement.
Look, almost all science core/gen-ed courses are horrible. This one is mostly bad but probably not the worst. Labs are a chore and lectures are not very engaging at all but the content is, if nothing else, interesting.
Solid core course which is both interesting and well taught/structured
The course it pretty easy.  Labs are straightforward, but lectures are a little long.  Though the material of the course is straightforward, it seems like TFs try to force a grade distribution by taking off points for minor mistakes on everything, which can get pretty frustrating.  Easy way to fill the SPU Gen-Ed requirement, but it starts to get pretty uninteresting and tedious towards the end of the semester.
Lecture is like watching the discovery channel with a few more numbers on it. Very easy if you know your stuff.
It's a great Gen Ed class!! It's pretty easy, relevant, and fun! Do it!
This course is great--it's very little work, a gen-ed, and really interesting. I've been recommending it to everyone I know.
Prof. Shaw rules. Relatively easy and super interesting SPU Gen Ed that actually relates to a lot of real-world issues and current events.
An easy, interesting Science A/SPU class that is perfect for a senior still needing to fill the requirement. Doesn't require much time, is easy to do well in, and is on a pretty relevant topic.
It's a Natural Disasters class, but its not a disaster itself. Embrace it,it's so rewarding being able to explain how a hurricane or tsunami forms and how such forces of nature shape the physical world.
This course brought back my love for science that was lost in high school. Section leader ndreas Plesch is very enthusiastic and involved. Definitely not a walk in the park though. There is a lot of material to know by the end of the course. Take if you love science or want a good gen ed required course for physical science.
A fun, interesting way to satisfy the Science A core requirement.
Professor Shaw is a great lecturer, section is really fun, and it is a great way to fulfill a core and learn about a topic that is important to all of our lives.
good to fulfill Science A core
I would recommend this course because it's an easy and fun way to fulfill the Gen-Ed requirement for SPU - it's important to note that this course doesn't have problem sets, only weekly labs where most of the work is done in section and there's a worksheet to fill out at the end. I'd also like to say that the software we used in the course was really, really cool.
This class has little to no homework every week and only two major assignments.  I can think of few less painful ways to get a science core (or gen ed) out of the way, and I am not a science fan.  Lectures are actually useful, but the textbook is a decent substitute for when 10:00 seems really early.
This class is not only interesting, but it is completely doable for a person that is not generally science inclined.
This course will be fairly easy and pleasant as long as you keep up with the material and get help in completing labs.
This class is super easy. The lectures are boring and you don't need to go to them. Section covers the high points of the lectures which matter for the exams.
Definitely take the class if you are at all interested in the subject, but otherwise it will be totally boring for you. Also, take it with a friend, makes studying and labs easier to do.
It is a great way to fulfill a gen ed
DO IT!  Interesting and easy core.
It was a relatively painless way to fulfill this requirement, but the midterm/final were harder than expected and I should have studied more. Review sessions weren't that helpful for them, so I'd suggest studying well in advance. Also, the lab write-ups were annoying to complete, so don't leave it for the night before. However, my TF was always available, so I'd suggest going for help answering the lab questions.
Class is really straightforward and material is very interesting.
This class taught me basic knowledge of natural disasters, which are useful. The exams require a lot of memorization, and TF was pretty strict about grading labs.
Take this class only if you are required to, but not as an elective. Only take it if you are truly interested in this subject.
This course is a great way to take care of the Science A requirement for those who do not enjoy math.
It is not as quantitative as might be expected. Overall, you should be able to understand general concepts.
This course is very easy - you don't need to go to lecture and the material is pretty interesting.  The labs are pretty long and tedious though.
An amazing course. The professor is enthusiastic and explains the concepts really well.
Take this course. It is actually fun, making physics interesting and easy to understand for non-science students. SERIOUSLY take this course. Prof Shaw really enjoys the subject matter and teaching in general, you can tell from the effort he puts into making the lecture slides. Take this course. Volcanoes are awesome.
Great way to fill a Core.  Fairly interesting and not too difficult.
I really think this is one of the best ways to fulfill the SPU requirement for Gen Ed. Even though I probably would not have picked it on my own, it turned out to be one of my favorite courses and one of the best decisions I've made in taking a course. All of the information you need to know for exams is on the lectures slides and most of the exam is strictly memory. The only math used on the exam was a simple addition problem. The labs and sections could be a bit tedious at times, but some were fun and we often got out earlier than expected. I don't really think the textbook is necessary at all because all the information is there on the lecture slides. Plus, the TFs are really helpful with the lab reports if you're willing to take time to see them at their office hours. Overall, I thought a good way to fulfill a requirement and not much work for an A.
so easy and actually applicable in real- life
Tolerable if you need for a Gen-Ed. Would recommend something else.
This class in interesting and relatively painless. However, be prepared for time-consuming labs and going to lecture is very important to do well!
Really interesting class. Not too much work, though the later labs can be a little time consuming. Just make sure you study well for the exams since a lot of material is covered!
One of the best options to fulfill a Science-A core. Also, if you don't have a good TF, try to switch immediately. It makes huge difference.
Take this class. It is an easy, fun, and interesting GenEd. Cool in-class demonstrations, lab/section is either computer simulations or real-life simulations of natural disasters. Aside from lab, no work is required outside of class. The things that you learn in this class are very "real-world applicable."
great class for non science people, going to lecture is recommended but not really needed because everything is in lecture slides. labs are a drag but are relatively easy to do compared to other science classes.  not much work outside of labs.
Fun
as far as spu requirement this is the best class to take
Very interesting to look at how these events shape everyone's lives and things of that nature
very interesting
Interesting course material which covers all the major natural disasters. Labs (using ArcMap software) may seem a bit pointless if you're not thinking of entering the field in the future, but they are relatively painless. Also, the format does not allow for much discussion/participation as labs are done individually.
The class provides students with an extensive knowledge of natural disasters that occur across the globe in an interesting and fun format.
It's a great course if you are interested in larger-scale scientific phenomena or understanding the importance of science to the socioeconomic and political aspects of society.It's a very interesting survey-type course.Labs are straightforward and assignments/exams test major concepts with some details, but without trying to trip you up.
The topics are pretty interesting and cool. The labs are kind of boring though
Good material.  Relatively painless.  AWESOME labs - you get to shoot a paintball gun, watch 3D movies, and blow up a trashcan volcano.
This is a really fun class with very enthusiastic teaching staff. It's not a heavy workload at all and the work you do is enjoyable. Definitely a great Gen Ed for SPU or elective even.
So interesting! I feel like i learnt so much about the world. Great class!
go to and pay attention in lecture! you can't teach yourself the slides and it doesn't correlate directly with the book.
This class is the worst that I have taken at Harvard.  The lectures are generally uninteresting, the professor makes little effort to appeal to students, the labs require endless menial work, and the exams are surprisingly difficult.
Great way to learn about climate problems that are especially relevant today!
Put a little bit of effort into this class, and you're set - you might even learn something!
great for those in the humanities. relatively painless way to kill this core. not math intensive at all.
This class is not as easy as I thought it would be. I took it for a gen-ed. I have a strong science background ( in biological sciences). The material was not difficult but it was hard to get  a good grade.
go to lecture, don't listen to Andreas
This is a painless way to fill a core/GenEd requirement.
The course is an interesting Science A core.
Take a class where the subject matter interests you
more difficult than expected, material is not that interesting
The class is very relevant and material is practical.
John Shaw is such an awesome professor!
This class is great!  There is a ton of information, but nothing is really hard.  It is by far my favorite class that I have taken.  This is stuff that actually relates to life after college, and is just generally good information to know.
It was very low work load, however, the labs were a bit harder than I anticipated they would be.
Take it. It is a great course from start to finish.
A fun, interesting, relatively easy class. Professor Shaw is a great lecturer
Good for a core.
The class gives a broad look at the natural disasters of the world and how they can affect humans and what policy writers must consider when those disasters take place.
