Watch all the films and be ready to discuss thoroughly
Amazing class, light and entertaining workload, will improve your Portuguese (you will spend time on this course, but most time-consuming aspect is watching movies which is fun!)
This class allows you to not only consolidate all your Portuguese grammar, listening and speaking skills, but also to dig deeper into the Brazilian culture. I learned so much.
If you can take the class with Heloisa, do it!! She is the best language TF I have had at Harvard. She really cares about the students, and we were even invited to a Brazilian restaurant on the last day of class. Her objective is to help students learn and improve their language skills in a manner that is friendly
Portuguese 40 was my favorite course of the semester! I wish that I had started taking Portuguese earlier in my college career. The Portuguese department is, as a whole, incredibly interested in its students' well-being and composed of some of the most caring, charismatic TFs you will ever have. Given the prominent position that Brazil will also have in the upcoming years, you can't go wrong picking up what will be an increasingly useful language to speak. The movies are all very enjoyable (with a couple of exceptions) and you will realize that you learned a lot about Brazilian culture and improved your Portuguese in a fun, stimulating environment.
This is a great class. It is discussion-based so be prepared to talk a lot in Portuguese. Also keep in mind that you have to make time each week to watch a movie. These can sometimes be old and a bit dry. Definitely take it though.
This class is super interesting and enjoyable but not too demanding. You watch a lot of really good films from various time periods and it's a great starter in Brazilian cinema. If Heloisa is your instructor then you are in for a treat.
The course material for this class is simply phenomenal. Stephen is extraordinary: knowledgeable, resourceful, passionate, engaging. My section was small enough (5 people) to allow for consistently engaging discussions. I could not have asked for more for a portuguese class.
This class is amazing and Viviane is the best. I highly recommend this course.
Your Portuguese skills will improve tremendously if you put in the effort. Viviane is very flexible so don't be afraid to approach her, she's very willing to help you out.
This is a really fun class to get to know more about Brazilian Cinema and contemporary history. If you have an interest in improving your Portuguese writing and speaking abilities do take this class.
Loved this class--Heloisa is the best and so sweet!
This course does a great job of preparing students to some day travel to Brazil or a Portuguese-speaking country and have a good understanding of the culture associated with such regions. Not only does it enhance your speaking skills, but it also enables you to understand the people on a deeper level, as well as many of the problems that are currently plaguing many Portuguese-speaking countries, including Brazil - and it gives students the awareness to some day make a positive change in those regions.
It's a great class with a lot of fun movies. Not too much work, and a great way to improve your written and spoken Portuguese.
This is a great class if you want to practice your listening comprehension and speaking! The movies are fun to watch! If you want to get the most out of the class, make sure you're really participating during class discussions!!
Heloisa is awesome! This class had great movies to watch (only a few that were a little boring). It was fun and enlightening.
Watch the movies. They are worth it. Essays and quizzes are not bad.
This is a great course. You watch great movies that give you a great overview on various aspects of Brazilian culture. Heloisa P is a wonderful tf.
Take it! The Portuguese department is so amazing and has some of the nicest professors and TFs.
Unless the syllabus is changed to accurately reflect all that this course requires of you, do not take it. Grammar study is minimal and most class time is wasted on meaningless discussion. If you want to discuss philosophy in Portuguese, go for it. If you want your written Portuguese to improve, run away.
I do not recommend this course. The syllabus is entirely ignored and Luiz doesn't communicate what or when stuff is due in a clear manner. He also assigns stuff 2 days before it's due without any notice (even during Reading Period). The films are long, and most are boring. A few are also weird: Carandiru is very bloody and Boca de Ouro is pretty pornographic. I don't know what to say- just don't take it unless you have to... your Portuguese will improve regardless.
There was a lot of busy work, but it was a very rewarding class and I truly enjoyed it.
Brazilian film is interesting and fun to watch. I would recommend this course, as learning its themes provide great insight into Brazilian society.
very interesting but time consuming
