Be prepared to spend time in your internship but it's worth it!
This is a fun class where you get the chance to speak a lot of Portuguese and think about immigration in the US.
This was a really bad class when looking only at the section component. But the opportunity to volunteer in the community was great. I don't see why you would need to take the course to volunteer though. I really don't think the course helped much in the way of learning the language.
This was a great class. Make sure to be very proactive about finding organizations to volunteer with
The class is not that much work, and Heloisa is an awesome professor. You learn a lot about immigration, and the bond between the class gets pretty close as time goes on. Coordinating with the local organizations can get a little difficult depending on what org. you want to work with, but it's just a small worry. Overall, great class!
I think this course will be very good in the future--Viviane is excellent, and I really enjoyed the volunteer component and the field trips and guest speakers--but the readings this year became pretty dry and repetitive. In addition, the workload for a language class was pretty heavy, and when combined with the repetitive readings the work sometimes felt a bit pointless. However, I think with some adaptation of the curriculum into a more dynamic and broader variety of subjects and readings, and with a bit of reorganization of the course, it would be really great! If you're interested, you should shop it when it's offered next and then decide for yourself, since I suspect it's going to change a lot.
Very fun class! A lot of work but it's worth it.
It's a really useful class, and you'll learn really interesting stuff, but you'll be super frustrated if you care about grades or organization or stuff
Perhaps it will be better in future years, but this year it was terribly disorganized.  Viviane is a good teacher and worker, but she grades harshly and can be stressful.
This is a very interesting class that truly tries to bring language skills to the community and made me aware of the Boston context, but be prepared for a lot of outside classwork time with field trips, community service, and Brazil week activities.  I would recommend this to you if you're interested in getting a better context for how the Portuguese language applies to the Boston community, and especially if you're interested in continuing research or service work in the Boston immigrant community.  The material is very interesting and often prompted discussion of race, ethnicity, and identity.
Sections and readings are a little boring, but internships would be cool if they were better set up.
This class is wonderful! It allows you to get involved in the Portuguese-speaking community in Boston while enhancing your knowledge and comprehension of the Portuguese language (and culture!).
Heloisa is amazing. Definitely take this class for an intermediate portuguese. The volunteer component only needs to be 1-2 hours a week.
I am glad that this class meets twice a week. It is also a benefit to the class that we do so much writing. This really makes it a stand out from other Portuguese classes. I think this class could be improved if the internship portion were more organized and if the class discussion were more directed.
Work at MAPS. This course is very insightful. Not too work-intensive, but it is involved.
This class is wonderful.  Everton is a very good teacher and very enthusiastic about the material.  He is very accessible outside of class and is always willing to help.  The community service component of the course is fantastic and one of the most worthwhile things you will do in any class at Harvard.  I highly recommend this class.
Portuguese 59 was my favorite language course at Harvard. The workload was appropriate both in volume and in relation to our community service commitments. Everton is a great professor who truly involves his students to think critically of the literature and to contribute to the ongoing discourse on ethnographic study.
It does take quite a bit of work but the subject matter is pretty interesting.
This is an excellent class--not just because of the interesting literature but also because of the volunteer experience with the community. Everton is a very engaging professor and he always assists you during his office hours. The final project is very open-ended and the course load is very reasonable. You should definitely take this class if you want to improve your language skills!
This class ' bem legal' definitely take it if you have the time to do the community service and really engage the readings. It will be worth it.
