Fun and interesting course that introduces you to great poetry!
Work consistently throughout the semester and you'll get more out of the course.
That the class was fun, and Pastre is a dynamic person and teacher.
Its a relaxed class that allows you to work closely with Clemence and develop your skills
This class is a must for any student interested in Portuguese. By now, any student who has taken a Portuguese class knows Clemence, so to have the full experience and get to enjoy her in all her glory, you must take this course with her. She is so passionate about the material and puts so much time into preparing for each course. You will feel so fortunate to have this intimate classroom experience with her because she spends so much time getting to know you and your strengths, and will also give you very useful and extensive feedback to help you improve even more within your Portuguese study. Plus, the subject matter is just fascinating and while it is challenging, it's a very fun course.
I would tell them that the Professor Clemence is one of the best people and best professors in the Romance Languages Department, and it is worth taking the class just to be with her. Also, the students who take Portuguese are generally very good, kind, and enthusiastic people, and so it's a great class because of the students, too. Everyday the class felt more like a relaxed poetry discussion among friends rather than a rigid Harvard course.
It is a fantastic course with personalized interaction and an amazing Harvard professor, the best professor I've had at Harvard. It was engaging, fun, instructive, interactive, personalized, etc.
This class is an amazing opportunity to learn more about Brazilian literature and culture from an amazing professor.
You have to like poetry and literature at least a little bit, but the course also covers a lot of topics in social sciences and social inequality, etc. in Brazil. The class is also based on conversations which makes everything more interesting.
Clemence is my favorite professor at Harvard, so pretty much any class you take with her will be good.But in this course, despite the topic being poetry, there is a lot to learn about Brazilian history as well.
Clemence is a truly lovely person, and it was a treat to spent a few hours talking about Brazilian poetry with her every week. You can probably skate by without putting much of an effort in, but if you do make the effort to complete the weekly papers, go to office hours, and spend time thinking about the poetry, you will get so much more out of the class.
Clemence is sensational! You get to learn a lot about the Portuguese culture and language! PHENOMENAL experience!
This is one of the best courses that you can take, and Clemence is one of the most extraordinary professors that you will ever meet.
An easy, enjoyable course taught by a wonderful, caring professor. Clemence is truly one of the most remarkable people at Harvard. She takes every single one of her students under her wing as if they were her own children. Don't miss out on getting to know her.
This class allows you to engage in complex Portuguese text and helps improve your writing but my only caution would be that if you do not enjoy poetry you might find the material boring at times.
This class is very personal. Clemence cares about her students more than any professor I have ever had. She is more than willing to do whatever it takes to help her students in any way possible. The small group or individual atmosphere makes learning the language and material easier because your personal needs are always taken care of.
Clemence teaches us how to love and appreciate Brazilian poetry for all that it is: historical, artistic, cultural, revolutionary, etc.
Amazing course! Clemence is the best person in the world--she is accessible and willing to help you with anything!
This is an amazing class!!!!! You will get out of it exactly as much as you put into it. Clemence is the sweetest teacher in the world. I highly advise you to take the time to get to know her.
Clemence is so sweet and caring. The course is all about Brazilian poetry, so be prepared for literary analysis and interpretation.
Ela  fantastica!!
This class was fun and interesting. However, toward the end of the course I was much less interested in the material. A lot of the reading became too technical and kind of boring, so I zoned out. But the beginning was awesome! I was always excited to go to class, even though I always had 4 hours of lecture before it. I discovered a whole new world that I really enjoyed. I also enjoyed doing the final project, even though I wasn't looking forward to doing it. It was a little harder than I expected to complete the task I wanted, but fun! Overall, great class.
The class was very interesting at first. Towards the end, it began to become a drag. I think it would have been helpful if we received feedback on how we were grasping the material. Too bad that it took forever for us to get out assignments back and graded.
