This course has great potential but it definitely needs improvement. I feel as if my Portuguese did not improve after taking this class, in fact I feel as if it got worse, grammar still needs to be emphasized a bit here, they did a good job at that later in the semester. The readings ranged from extremely interesting to downright boring. This may just be a function of the topics covered, but even then some readings were terrible. That being said the good readings changed the way I see many aspects of culture and identity. Overall it's a great class where you can learn a lot about Brazilian culture just know that it will be a review of the culture mainly through readings. Dr. Lee was a very good instructor.
This class and Portuguese C are about the same level. Portuguese C will firm up your grammar skills, while Portuguese 30 focuses more on Brazilian identity and history. I am glad that I chose 30, but both seem to be good options--it just depends what you most want to work on most!
Take it
Dr. Lee is an awesome, lively instructor who, although new, knows how to encourage lively conversation. He knows when to move on and when an object commands further exploration in conversation. He's also a very good person to get to know, and he does a great job of portraying the relative effect of each cultural component studied in class to the greater Brazilian cultural product.
This is a fantastic course.  Dr. Lee is very enthusiastic and helpful.  If you are interested in Brazilian history, I highly recommend it.  Viviane is extremely helpful as well.  You can't go wrong with this course.
Portuguese 30 was a nice class, not too demanding, and covered many cultural aspects of Brazil. I think the main question we tried to answer was "what does it mean to be Brazilian"which we did answer in ways from a variety of angles.
This class is wonderful. And if you have Stephen as your TF, you're in for a treat. Be sure to do the reading as section is based off of the readings. If you don't, you won't really have any other opportunity to practice speaking. You'll definitely improve.
This class was a great way to improve language skills while still really learning something important about Brazilian history. Really came away as though I had taken a history class--in the best way possible--and still feel much more comfortable about Portuguese than I had before. I had not taken Portuguese C, and hadn't taken Ad in a year, so I was worried it would be difficult, but it was at a very good balance between challenging and very enjoyable and laid-back. Great course.
Definitely take it if you can get Stephen Bocksay as your professor.
This class is very interesting and you will get a lot out of it but make sure that you feel pretty comfortable with speaking and with Portuguese grammar because it isn't really reviewed much... you're just expected to know it.
Be prepared to read a lot and have opinions about the readings. The more you put in, the more you get out.
This class was great!! It really helped improve my Portuguese by A LOT, and it pushes you to speak more in the classroom. The course also gives you a better feel for Brazilian culture, which is great, especially if you ever intend on going to Brazil.
Take it!!!!!! i loved this class :) So chill, but so cool! Mr. Steven is really cool and sings all the time! So fun :)
There is not too much work and your Portuguese will improve if you put in the effort. Bocskay is awesome and you should get to know him well.
This class is a terrific learning opportunity that not only helped me improve my knowledge of the portuguese language, and strengthened my confidence in speaking, reading and writing the language, but also served as a great introduction to Brazilian culture.
This is a really fun and great way to continue your Portuguese. The readings are substantive compared to earlier levels, but they're easy and generally really interesting and you don't even realize when you've read an entire coursepack. There's no busywork and you never really feel like what you're doing isn't beneficial. One of those classes where, if you do the work and do it well, you get a LOT out of it. And Heloisa is such an animated, creative and fun instructor!
This is a great class. You learn Brazilian History in addition to key grammar points. The workload isn't bad, and the teachers in the department are generally pretty awesome.
Great introduction to Brazilian culture and history. Fun class!
I absolutely recommend this class. Class discussion was lively and stimulating and my Portuguese speaking abilities improved tremendously even within just the first month of being in this class. The readings are interesting and the workload is very manageable.
You will have to do a lot of reading, but if you want to continue Portuguese through context (versus through simple grammar and vocabulary review), this is a fun and interesting class.
That it is a fun and engaging way to learn about Brazil!
This is a great course to improve your reading skills.
The class is good, but the material isn't that interesting. It's a long way from the enthusiasm and fun of intro Portuguese, but it's pretty good nonetheless.
Great class if the other students are chill
Great class. Take it. You will improve your portuguese and become more immersed in the brazilian culture. Stephen Bocksay is a great professor.
Great class!
This class is great. Ana Paula is a great instructor. There is something for everyone in this course. All of my classmates had different interests and we all found different parts of this course interesting. Grammar is largely a review from previous semesters.
You need to have the time to put into the course to get the most out of it.
The class is wonderful. Take it!!!
this is the best Portuguese course I have taken at Harvard. it reinforced my grammar and taught me a lot about Brazilian culture and identity.
I've heard better things about Portuguese 40 from friends who have taken both.
This course is amazing! It gives you the opportunity to solidify portuguese knowledge by learning about Brazilian culture, identity and politics. Readings give you a lot of insight as to what Brazil's national identity is like and the project at the end of the semester is a great opportunity to delve into an issue about Brazil that you want to learn more about. I feel that this course improved my Portuguese grammar as well.
