Get into a small section!
Only take this course if you're actually interested in Portuguese learning long-term. It gives a great overview of grammar that prepares you more for the higher levels of Portuguese.
This class was beneficial because we had a small class and really got to practice our speaking. However, there is not enough writing in this course. It had the same written requirements as Portuguese Ad, 5 short personal statements, and I did not see noticeable improvement in my writing. This course is better than nothing, but a course that requires its students to write at least a three page essay would be helpful.
Want to engage with Brazilian culture and get better at Portuguese? Then get a copy of Rosetta Stone.
You will definitely develop a great ear in Portuguese, and you will learn more if you ask questions and try to talk as much as possible.
If you are thinking about continuing with Portuguese after Aa/Ab or Ac, I would definitely give it some serious thought.  Coming into Portuguese C, I felt very sure that I wanted to pursue a citation, but I left absolutely certain that I did not want to take another Portuguese class at Harvard.  Assignments could definitely be fun and Viviane was fantastic as a person, but the class definitely had problems.  First, the lack of a syllabus made homework ridiculous some days.  One day it was announced on a Tuesday that our homework for Thursday was 40 pages of reading, a composition, and preparation for an oral presentation; not only was this a ridiculous amount of work, but we were given such little notice to complete it.  Additionally, there were many ridiculous vocab quizzes at the beginning of the course that changed format each quiz and were impossible to study for; this was the direct cause of the class size dropping from 22 students to 11.  The class definitely had its great moments as well, but unfortunately completely lost the fun and upbeat aspect of Portuguese Aa/Ab.
Take this class so you can move on to take higher level Portuguese courses. Though if you can, definitely pass out of this class and skip to the next level.
This is a great course if you are seeking a reading knowledge of Portuguese.
Think long and hard before you take this course. This is not going to be an extension of Portuguese Ac and it is going to be much more demanding of your time. There are many ways to learn the language, but I have reservations about recommending this as one of them. Having had an amazing TF for my introductory Portuguese class, this course was a bit of a let-down. This course was not bad by any means, but I was so excited to go to class last year. Not the case with Portuguese C.
Good practice at improving grammar and vocabulary, but not very useful for improving spoken portuguese.
Very fun, informative class.
As with all classes in the Romance Language department Portuguese C is a blast.
class is heavily dependent on the TF.  Plinio is amazing but some of the students from other sections may not have the same experience.
You will learn so much from Portuguese C. The grammar practice you gain is key to being able to read actually novels in Portuguese.
Portuguese C is great but be careful choosing a TA
Shop around the TFs until you find the best one (it just worked out for me that Plnio was the best!)
It's better to go abroad to Brazil and skip Intermediate Portuguese entirely. This course is not fun, barely helpful, and underwhelming. Better to jump to 37.
Great course if you want to continue learning portuguese!
I used to really enjoy Portuguese. It was a fun elective but this semester was the polar opposite. I rarely enjoyed class. My previous experience in Portuguese class was effortless and fun and yet I walked away knowing twice as much as I did this semester. I think the Portuguese Department has this reputation for being really fun and not grade driven. You learn a lot and walk away with a strong understanding of Portuguese but at the same time it is a painless and fun experience. I am disappointed that this semester did not live to that reputation. Even though I did well in the course, it was not an enjoyable experience and one that has discouraged me from taking other Portuguese classes.
If you aren't at least competent in the language, you might need to spend extra time at the LRC, or go to you tf's office hours a lot.
great class
The class as is now is too disorganized. Check the syllabus thoroughly and vet your TF before you sign on board.
Great class - flexible, enjoyable extension of Portuguese A. At times much too catered to already-fluent Spanish speakers, many of whom are graduate students. If you want to really learn the language, spend time working on the material outside of class, although for the course itself it is hardly necessary to do so. All-in-all enjoyable, educational, and good if you are excited about Portugal or Brazil.
Very fun, laid back course. Good senior spring class, though attendance is very important! Go for Portuguese C if you're interested in taking an easy language course a bit off the beaten path but that is still very useful as Brazil is a rapidly developing country.
If you want to improve your skills in the Portuguese language, highly recommended.
Take this class if you have taken introductory Portuguese and want to keep learning. Be aware that some students will be more advanced in Portuguese than others.
Good course for grammar, not so much for vocab.
Any tf but ADam.... the course was sooo good with Max for the first couple of weeks...
It's a really fun class :) It definitely got my speaking skills going!
Viviane is a great, charismatic, and approachable TF. However, do not skip Portuguese Ad to enroll directly in this course. Enjoy Ad as it will prepare you for the difficult grammar that is taught in C.
Take this course with Viviane!
This course is a great continuation of what I learned in Portuguese Ac but we learn much more about Brazilian culture and society. The assigned books were really interesting, although they were tough to understand and read at times.
