This seminar was an eye-opening experience for me. I discovereda whole literary world, rich, changing, exciting and interesting; every novel we read was special and engaging in its own way.  The texts coveren in this course offer innovative ways of writing aboutwar, history, Holocaust and post-Holocaust memory. They also reflect complex issues in European (and, particularly, Polish) culture and literature, such as reworking of historical trauma, social and cultural changes in post-Communist Europe, and so forth.  Because of the varietyof theoretical and cultura issues involved, the course would be of interest not only to the students specializing in Slavic studies, but also to the students of comparative literature, Jewish studies, literary theory, and other fields.
This is course was a seminar in a best sense of the word. The professor facilitated excellent discussion and students were able to engaged with each other and with the material collegially, enthusiastically and at a very high intellectual level.
This course will most likely to change not only how you think about contemporary Poland and the dynamics of its culture, but will also enrich your understanding of some issues of paramount importance such as national and gender identity, ontology and epistemology of selfhood,all of which we often take for granted, despite our ability to grasp these problems being rooted in the tension that results from counterposing multiple points of view that are often mutually exclusive.
It's a class you can get a lot out of.
Prof. Nizynska's Polish Literature Post-Revolution course is a course for those wishing to experiment with modern literature and criticism.  It might be said that the course is not for the feint of heart, as, indeed, much of the literature coming out of contemporary Poland is violent and subversive.  The class does not shy away from dealing with all facets of contemporary literary culture, and Prof. Nizynska's understanding of Polish literary history and her familiarity (sometimes on a personal basis) with the authors in question lend the class an air of authenticity and pressing importance for those concerned with modern literary discourses and the future of literature in general.
