Professor Bolton really cares about all aspects of the course, which is refreshing and helps to make the experience of taking it a great one.  This class is definitely a literature class and doesn't focus on the history of the region, and I found it was a good experience to be focusing primarily on the texts themselves.  Take it if you're at all interested in Eastern or Central Europe or think you might be--it's a great opportunity to read some wonderful books with a dedicated professor.
If you are at all interested in Eastern European literature, take this course! Professor Bolton is a phenomenal discussion leader and the readings are all very interesting. It is challenging and definitely has its fair share of reading, but it is absolutely rewarding.
You will learn a lot not only about East Central European culture, but also about how to think and write about literature in general at a more sophisticated level
Slavic 195: The East Central European Novel after World War II was one of the most rewarding classes of my undergraduate career. I am not a Slavic concentrator, and took a chance on this course as an elective. This decision has paid immeasurable dividends. As a Classics concentrator, I had never studied the region of Central Europe at all. This course is responsible for shaping all my views on the region, its literature, and the experiences of its people. It exposed me to authors like Czeslaw Milosz, Milan Kundera, Danilo Kis, and many others whom I will cherish for my lifetime, and whose works will occupy a treasured spot on my immense bookshelves. The requirements for the course are by no means strenuous or burdensome-- just one novel per week, and one short paper every other week, with no midterm exam. But the intellectual labor this course invited was immense. On those afternoons when we sat in the Klasson Room of the Barker Center, we considered nothing less than the founding myths of a regional identity, the defining political clashes of the 20th century, and man's quest to reconcile national identity and tragic historical narratives with a broader mission. The course also provided its students with more concrete benefits as well, specifically, the ability to not only read, but really break down and consume a novel, and understand its themes and questions and how its generic and formal conventions relate to those themes. I had limited experience with the study and analysis of novels before taking this class, if for no other reason than because there are not too many extant Classical Greek and Latin novels. But now, I have acquired a set of skills that will benefit me for the rest of my life. I am very grateful to Professor Bolton for this. And speaking of Professor Bolton-- he was the driving force, the energy and the mastermind behind this course. He is a true scholar of literature. During every class or office hours, I was overcome with the sense that I was experiencing the rare privilege of watching a master craftsman ply his trade. I thoroughly benefitted from his teaching, and can only hope to take more classes with him in the future.
