I think getting to read Chekhov and Dostoyevsky gives you a good feeling of fulfillment and makes this course very special. Also, the professors are very good and the system of learning is very efficient.
Russian is the best language ever and this class was a helpful step in comprehension and confidence in the language.
It is necessary to take this course if you want to continue in Russian; I have found my study of Russian to be very rewarding, and despite some drawbacks, this course, like all other Russian course I have taken at Harvard, improved my language skills.
It is very helpful if you want to really understand how the language is put together.
It provides good vocabulary, so it may be useful before going into Slavic 111 or 112. At the same time, it is very frustrating and may not be worth the trouble.
It's good, but be prepared to be frustrated.
It is a lot of work, and success is impossible to guarantee.
This is an invaluable continuation of the Russian language and literature curriculum, following Slavic 101. The amount and depth of grammar and vocabulary is useful and sometimes quite a lot (but I was left still wanting more!).
This is an intense, rewarding language class led by instructors who approach language-learning as a kind of science.
This class combines great preceptors with great material!  My Russian definitely improved throughout the semester.
It is a phenomenal course, but likely won't be the same if Natalia and Curt aren't there.
good course to take to complete your russian studies
Be prepared to talk about love a lot and analyze in Russian some complicated love stories!
While you may not enjoy all the literature covered in the course, the grammar and vocabulary drills will help to raise your language ability significantly.
This class helps to solidify grammar concepts and is specifically targeted at verb government.
I'm not sure what to expect in the future for Russian 103.  I would very highly recommend Dr. Reed's course but without her in the Slavic department I'm not sure if I can speak to what the quality of future Russian 103 courses.
If you're interested in philosophical discussions in Russian or just learning the next step of the language, this is a great course!
This class is a lot of work but you will see progress corresponding with how much you put into it.
It's hard but it's worth it. Just take it, get your citation, and enjoy being in the Slavic department.
There is a big emphasis in this course on tests and quizzes.
Wonderful class! It is so amazing to be reading literature in its original language! The instructors are always accessible and extremely helpful.
Great continuation of the Russian language series. I think I learned way more in Russian III than in Russian II, and Veronika is an amazing preceptor.
If you made it through Russ 101 and liked it, this course is essentially the same.  Readings are definitely trickier, but much more interesting.  You start to feel like, on a good day, you can speak Russian without thinking through every word.  There are still weekly tests, Oral exams, midterms, finals, but now your essays are typically four pages and graded for accuracy.
really great course to continue studying russian.
some review of words you already know, and you get a lot better at writing essays (there's one every weekend).
This course is wonderfully well-taught, Veronika Egorova is one of the best teachers I've ever  had in my life. She's brilliant, funny, and kind, and she really just loves teaching and cares so much that we actually learn something in her course. I have seldom been so impressed by an instructor and a course, and I've never felt as at home at Harvard as I do in my Russian courses generally.
This course is fun and also not super hard. You will not regret taking this course.
Fantastic course- as always, the Russian professors are engaging and committed to helping each student individually.
Great course, the literature based learning is very effective.
This course is rigorous but so satisfying - Oksana and Veronika Aleksandrovna are compassionate and dedicated instructors who are always available to help you succeed, and there is nothing like the feeling of accomplishment when you read an entire novella by Dostoevsky in the original!
This a very good course and Veronika Egorova is an excellent instructor.
If you want to learn Russian, you just have to take this course and stick to it. This class was often pretty discouraging, and sometimes Veronika seems annoyed when you make mistakes, but you just can't take it personally (she also definitely has her favorites, i.e. the people who already speak Russian really well and don't even really need to take the class!). As with all of the Russian classes, the daily homework can be a bit of a drag, but it's necessary to really take in all of the vocabulary. It was a good class; not super fun but alright. A lot of the time it seems that your grades just depend on your background in Russian; if you are coming in with a less experience be prepared to get a lower grade, even if you work really hard.
Veronika is an excellent and committed teacher. I really liked the film we watched and the Chekhov story we read, and I feel my Russian improved substantially from taking this class.
The course is great, keep going with Russian!
Great class, great instructor. If you're at all interested in continuing Russian, you should definitely take it.
