Great class.
It was one of the most positive and memorable academic experiences I've ever had.  The section is also relatively small (about 10), so you get to be great friends with your section-mates.
Professor Pokrovsky is a patient instructor who makes students comfortable to try and participate. Her enthusiasm for the subject matter is contagious.
It really is a great survey of the Russian news media as well as a language class.The translation work is challenging. It really is a different kind of Russian than the one you learn in regular language classes. It will feel immediately useful to have taken the class and you will then be able to navigate the Russian press with much more ease and competence.
Particularly useful if reading/scanning Russian newspapers is required for research purposes. This course aided my reading of Russian newspapers immeasurably.
This course offers a great opportunity to learn about dynamic economic, political and social issues in Russia, while also significantly improving one's reading and listening comprehension.
Natalia Pokrovskaya is wonderful!
Natalia Pokrovsky is the best thing you can do for yourself if you want to learn Russian. She has improved my comprehension 100-fold. Do yourself a favor and study under her.
This class differs from lower-level classes in that it emphasizes reading and less structured speaking. The reading and the vocabulary is timely and important.
This a fun class to take, especially if you are interested in reading Russian newspapers.
This course gives you lots of practice in reading, speaking, listening, and writing.
Professor Pokrovsky is very enthusiastic and helpful, was very accommodating to lower level speakers.
If you want to understand the Russian media landscape, then take this course. Also, the vocabulary is contemporary and relevant for every day use.
This course will really help you get a handle of the varied Russian media landscape. Previously my conceptions of this subject were rather vague, but this course helped me understand the various actors behind certain media outlets, the political leanings of publications, and general trends around political debate in the Russian media.
In a small-class setting, this course is excellent for improving one's speaking confidence and media vocabulary. Each student gets extensive individual attention and speaking opportunities.
Again, it's a great way to keep up with Russian politics and to develop familiarity with the landscape of Russian media.
This is a GREAT course for those interested in contemporary Russian politics, economics and social issues. Natalia Iosifovna is an excellent teacher; she is engaging, knowledgeable and tries to involve as many students as possible in discussions. The work load was extremely manageable, as were assessments.
This class is a great way to keep up your Russian, learn about Russian news and politics, expand your vocabulary, etc. The teacher is very skilled and dedicated, the assignments are doable, and the material is stimulating. You will expand all four areas of language competency here. It's also not a terribly demanding course. It does help to have a good awareness of geopolitics and world news going in. I didn't, and there were several moments when I felt very embarrassed in class. I don't think this affected my grade, really, except insofar as sometimes the feeling of embarrassment encouraged me to skip class. I don't know if I can claim that international relations knowledge is *necessary* to take this class -- it's just that it will be full of people who do have it.
