Good for a discussion of the Russian/Soviet character and to build a knowledge of the past 60 years.
It's a good class for building up necessary vocab for discussing various concepts that aren't introduced in previous courses. The readings and films are usually very enjoyable, and discussions are fun. It's best if you can speak Russian relatively decently before taking this class.
In this class you'll solve some riddles of the cold Russian people, watch some great movies, and get a lot better at Russian. Also, Natalia Pokrovsky is a delight!
Be prepared for a lot of reading and writing! But your Russian will definitely improve, and Professor Pokrovsky is a dynamo.
You will receive a thorough overview of Soviet mentality
Natalia is a wonderful teacher though she may seem intimidating at first! the films are interesting and the near daily sochenenies definitely help improve your writing abilities.
It is a wonderful and interesting course.
Great movies, fun readings, and interesting discussions.  What else could you want?
Natalya Pokrovsky is one of Harvard's true gems.  I would recommend any of her courses to anybody.
It's a great course if  you want to understand Russian culture.
the course is simply great
Natalia Iosifovna is a wonderful teacher--take this class!
I would just tell future students that the course is extremely well-taught, well-structured, and accomplishes its intended goal: To develop a better idea of Russian self-conceptions and "mentality" in the late imperial, Soviet, and post-Soviet periods. As such, the course inherently involves a focus on culture and history, and thus may not seem practical for a student interested primarily in current events. However, I would caution against such reasoning and argue that this course has helped my own conceptualization of current political/social/economic events in the region.
Take this if you are confident in your Russian skills and want to practice talking and writing.
This is an excellent course! The selection of materials covers a very wide range of topics relating to Russian culture. I learned a lot and class was always fun. Definitely recommend!
This class is a great way to keep up and increase your Russian speaking, reading, and writing skills without providing an insurmountable weekly burden of work. Pokrovsky knows how to teach you new things while making everything feel very fluid and easy.
Great class, right along the Russian track. Interesting material (Russian character, some literature work, movies, discussions of Soviet and Post-Soviet characteristics)
This class is a lot of fun, a great way to get more practice and keep up your language skills.
Out of all the 4th year Russian classes, this is my favorite.  It's a good mix of materials between literature, news articles and movies.  IF you've taken other courses with Natalia Pokrovsky, then you'll know exactly what this is like.
This course was excellent and very interesting.
Teaching and materials are great, but be aware that at this level of Russian, the students will come from all sorts of ability levels and backgrounds  this can be extremely frustrating for students on both ends of that spectrum.
It's fun!
