Wonderful academic experience--I enjoyed reading the representative examples selected from the literature of this unique period. Take advantage of the professor and the other students, who are very knowledgeable about different aspects of the culture and history.
A very interesting course - loved the texts (in particular, Gombrowicz, Witkiewicz, and Schulz), great feedback on your work. Prof. Nizynska actually listens when you have something to say and takes you seriously which is great!
Excellent literature, truly great instructor.
This course has become vital to my thinking about the period of inter-war Modernism in multiple contexts.  The course will be productive for anyone interested in the period, and has vital things to teach not only the student of Polish literature, but of German, Russian, and French literature, as well.
Professor Nizynska is a brilliant instructor: she knows how to approach each student individually and she knows how to moderate discussions well.  At times you may feel challenged; however, Professor Nizynska does not over-challenge you, that is, she does not discourage you from wanting to learn.  Although, I took this class as an elective, I sometimes found myself treating it as a department requirement, and that's because Professor Nizynska made the class so interesting.  The readings are fun (some of them are just crazy!) and student discussions should be great.  If you are looking to learn something about Polish literature of the 20th century, or if you are looking to learn about the avantagarde society of Poland, then this is the perfect class.  Enjoy!
The texts we read in this class were ones that I might never have read otherwise, and they were excellent.  Prof. Nizynska leads great discussions.  I highly recommend this course!
Excellent professor, really knows her stuff!
The course is a wonderful introduction to Polish literatureof the period. It explores the works of major authors(Gombrowicz, Schulz, Witkacy), as well as the works that are littleknown, but worthy to be read. The discussion is interesting and lively,and it often extends into broader issues of European art and cultureof the Interwar Period.
A wonderful course about very important writers who are crucial to understanding 20th century world literature (to say nothing of the fact that they are a pleasure to read!).
