This course was an excellent introduction to Gogol, literary criticism, and reading big texts in Russian. The weekly writing assignments are varied, and the discussion is lively (except when it gets bogged down in some of the lower-quality criticism). Oleh makes class welcoming and supportive, but also gives good constructive criticism.
Truly fantastic course. Readings are light (we only read 4 short stories over the course of the term), though Gogol's language necessitates frequent use of a dictionary. I feel like I truly got to know not only Gogol the writer (and he's probably the most fantastically inventive stylist I've ever read), but also Gogol as he was interpreted by all the zany critics who have tried to make sense of him ever after. The critical readings are almost as fascinating as the stories, by the way, so don't skip them.
This class is the single best literature course I have taken at Harvard, and Dr. Todd is the best literature professor in the Slavic department. Coming from a lighter Russian background than other students, I spent many hours outside of the course preparing the readings (in Russian). It is not easy to understand modern Russian, let alone the archaic Russian used during Gogol's time. However, it is well worth the effort. Dr. Todd helps his students not only understand these difficult texts, but also appreciate them for their beauty and elegance. I highly recommend this course.
A rare opportunity to work closely with one of Harvard's finest professors and read Russian literature intensively in the original. The reading is excellent, and your Russian reading skills will really improve.
If you're a concentrator, you have to take the tutorial, so there really isn't an option. But, having a (typically) very small class with a great professor is a nice experience, and you really get to dive into the literature/translation in a way that language classes don't offer the time to do. Don't be discouraged if it's difficultyou will have to use a dictionary to accurately translte everything, but it's worth it in the end.
This course provides a great opportunity to discuss Russian literature in a comfortable yet informative atmosphere.
A great class for those interested in Russian literature, but the reading list is quite variable and often not unified.
I was not a fan, but that doesn't mean you won't be. If you enjoy literary criticism and an unfailingly sarcastic and often acerbic instructor, by all means, take this course.
This course could be a lot more organized.
I love the Slavic department deeply, but this class was torture. If a student has an observation about the text that is not merely a rewording of what Svetlana Boym has already said, then she immediately disregards it. I felt that my presence in my own tutorial was superfluous, because we did not have a dialogue. We had Professor Boym talking, and the rest of us nodding because we knew that to offer our own opinions was pointless. I took this class because I was required to. I'm not happy about it.
If you really like literature and close-reading and word-by-word analysis...by all means.
Take it if you like Chekhov and Nabokov. If not, don't major in Slavic.
Appreciate the opportunity to listen to an expert.
Fun class.
This course is required of concentrators, but it's definitely worth it to others if you are interested in the reading material and can read in Russian (and speak, as sometimes Professor Sandler likes to incorporate Russian-language discussion into the course). Reading Eugene Onegin in the original was a great experience, and the pacing was good throughout the semester. We also read a couple other texts and watched the opera version of the novel, so it was more than just reading one text for 13 weeks.
I highly recommend this course for students interested in reading Russian literature in its native language. Dr. Sandler is an excellent professor who really cares about her students - take this course with her if you have the chance.
I enjoyed the works we looked at and some of the discussions about them, but often there was too much work and the atmosphere was not relaxed.
Difficult subject matter, may not emerge from course with a clearly improved conception of what the Slavic department expects from assignments (though definitely a few concrete skills in poetry and film analysis).
