I highly recommend this course - it is valuable for a student of Russian literature as well as for those students interested in expanding their literary horizons. Dr. Todd is an excellent professor (the best in his field) and I would very much encourage taking this course with him if one has the opportunity to do so.
I very much enjoyed this course.  It offered an opportunity to read works of Russian pastoral literature that I hadn't previously heard of, and most were quite enjoyable.  The reading load was quite manageable each week.  Class sessions usually involved some brief remarks by Prof. Todd (who is a fantastic professor) and one or two talks by students on the readings followed by class discussion.  I would highly recommend this course for anyone with an interest in the Russian gentry/peasantry or rural literature.
Take this class. Prof. Todd is a brilliant mind and very kind man at the top of his field, and having a seminar with him is so valuable. The structure of the course is so awesome with presentations, book reviews and a final paper, I wish more courses were like this! Also since there are so many grad students it just feels like some nice, chill, interesting people talking about Russian Lit, not a bunch of high-strung sleep-deprived A-hungry undergrads like in most seminars/Gen-eds.
Professor Todd is wonderful. You will get out of this class what you put into it. The readings are so great. This class isn't life-changing, but it is thoroughly enjoyable.
A lot of reading, all of which is rural and 19th century, but if that is at all interesting to you it's a great course with a great professor
Professor Todd is a brilliant, deeply erudite, and remarkably kind scholar--and if you have a chance to take this course with him I would not pass it up. For me, it was a foray into an entirely new literary and sociological field, and Professor Todd offered the perfect transition into that material--providing just enough contextual information and then consistently asking us to nuance many of our pre-conceptions about the pastoral throughout the course. I feel that from this one seminar I have gained a unique overview of the Russian literary tradition--not told merely through the canonical epic novels, but through this more sideways perspective that gives great insight into the central narrative. I would also add that the assignments are very well structured--two review papers, two presentations, and a final essay--so that you can develop a set of personal interests throughout the class that can be broad but will culminate very well in the final essay. All my recommendations!
