You'll get a lot out of this class as long as you do the reading and participate in class.  It is much easier if you have background knowledge about Eastern Europe and Central Asia.
Great class - lots of speaking practice and the vocabulary lists are reinforced through the readings
This course is especially relevant if you're into post-Soviet politics and follow current events in the region. If not, then it provides great opportunities to get more familiar with the region. Take advantages of the opportunities to expand your vocabulary as well.
The course is very helpful in improving vocabulary, speaking, reading and listening abilities, but the workload is at times overwhelming.
This is a great course if you want to gain knowledge of Russian events--especially from the Russian perspective. At the end of the course, you will be able to make your own research in Russian about history, politics, economics or demographics with much greater ease.
A great and practical linguistic approach to discussing important political issues.
The course demands a lot of work from its students, but it's worth it
This is an excellent way to learn political Russian. Natalia Iosifovna is a wonderful, dedicated teacher who has been doing this for many years. This is the fifth course I've taken in the Russian language here at Harvard, and I really have to say that the teachers and preceptors are wonderful. I cannot recommend them enough, in just their present form, and there aren't enough good things to say about the staff.
All of Natalia Pokrovsky's courses are excellent. This course is a general overview of topics that appear in Russian news media. The themes covered in the course are similar to those covered in her course that is specifically devoted to Russian media. If you would like to become more adept at reading the newspaper in Russian and work on your writing skills, take this course. If you are more interested in culture or literature, I would recommend her literature course, which is excellent.
It is good opportunity to take this course for learning that Russian language is itself connected to the Russina issues
A solid course for anyone interested in learning how to talk about politics and other interesting current issues in Russian.
It is a good way to build area knowledge about Russia and language expertise.
