Take it! You won't regret it! It will be your favorite class
If you want to get a fantastic sense of the character and evolution of Russian thought and culture, this is the class for you.  It involves a fair amount of writing, but it is never overwhelming and it is always intersting.
If you look at the syllabus and it catches your eye, take it. You won't regret it. Amazing reads, films, discussion, and a professor who guides the discussion with expertise. The workload is manageable.
It was very good.
Take this class
Great, fun, easy class.
Greatly inspiring; assignments are actually interesting, and studying never quite felt like work.
Really great class!
No knowledge of the Russian language is necessary for this course, yet you get an insiders perspective on Russian culture from the professor and Russian speaking classmates. This course is great opportunity to get a solid grounding in Russian culture through texts and films both well and less known.
The reading is really interesting. Class discussions aren't necessarily the deepest conversations that you'll have in a literature class, but that doesn't detract from the overall awesomeness of reading these works.
This class is great. The texts and the films are certainly "strange," and they teach you a ton about what "Russian-ness" is. Don't be intimidated if you have no background in Russian language or literature, but do make sure you have an interest in things like the culture and history of Russia. It's a great course. You'll find yourself having fun doing the "work" here. I absolutely recommend it.
it's an easy class with great readings accompanied by slightly one-sided discussions
Tons and tons and tons of reading. It's interesting, but very easy and possible to fall behind.
This is an amazing course. It really exposes you to a new literary world
This class is great, but there are a lot of readings! To get the most out of it, or really anything at all, don't take it half-heartedly. Professor Sandler is great at facilitating discussion in lecture, and it really does make a difference whether or not you do the readings.
This class was amazing!  I had a great deal of fun and learned a lot, particularly considering I was not very familiar with Russian culture!
Take this class. I didn't even go during shopping period, but after I checked the Q ratings and someone told me that Russian literature was fascinating, I thought I'd take a gamble at take this course anyway. Seriously, best decision ever!! You can tell Professor Sandler and the TFs really do care about their students and love teaching this course. They are enthusiastic, and the material we read/watch really is fascinating. If you take this course, you won't regret it.
This is not an ordinary literature class. Instead of listening to a professor lecture twice a week on the books, the class is conducted as a discussion, so you actually get to talk about the books in lecture as well as section. The stories are usually not that long (only a couple of them were novels, the rest were short stories), and there were 6 movies to discuss as well. One of the best reading lists I've had at Harvard, and Professor Sandler is really great.
I highly recommend this course. I took it on a whim and it became the academic highlight of my first semester.
Tl;dr: subject/materials, professor, and TFs are wonderful. If you have a lot of time, this is a great course that you should totally take, but it may be inadvisable if you don't. I liked the subject/materials, the professor, and the TFs tremendously. The two latter are very smart and kind and interested. I would caution you that there is a *lot* of material, much of it in PDF form, and that there are a *lot* of short essays with prompts that didn't readily suggest lines of argument to me and to which it was hard to make responses complete and still short enough. I didn't have a lot of time to devote to this course, and I had a bad experience as a result, and that made me really sad, but I do think that if you have time to do all the reading/watching and to really spend time figuring out and polishing your essays, you can get a great deal out of it. Also -- and this is not a bad or a good thing, but maybe a thing you would like to know -- I felt that this wasn't really a course on "Strangeness" in Russian writing per se. Many of the authors have non-realistic modes or projects, or odd affects and interests, but these are for the most part well-grounded in psychology, history, and religion. For me, the focus in this course is on the constant orientation of Russian literature *towards* the issues of the world, rather than the sense of liberation from the world through weirdness that I think of when I think of strange art. It was usually more like "Hmm, this author is doing this kinda atypical or non-realistic thing, eg., a giant Nose walking around St. Petersburg -- I wonder how we can understand this as perfectly reasonable in the author's context." This is a really valuable thing to study, but it wasn't what I thought the course was about from the description, so I thought I'd mention it.
The readings are fantastic (albeit not all that strange), ranging from Tolstoy and Dostoevsky and Tarkovsky to more obscure contemporary and historical writers/filmmakers. The only caveats are that lectures were frustratingly unfocused and didn't really put the readings in literary or historical context.
Good course for a Gen Ed, although it'll be a little annoying at times if you don't like literary analysis all that much. Some really good readings.
Professor Sandler is an incredibly helpful, engaging, approachable, friendly woman.  She guides classes in a way that discussion between students is the primary structure of the class, while still ensuring that we receive the important themes of the readings or movies.  If you get Daniel as a TF, he is also incredibly helpful and available.  He will help you come to conclusions on possible essay topics, as well as improve your previously submitted work so you can a) rewrite it, as you're allowed to do that or b) become a better writer and improve for the next paper.  The readings can sometimes be difficult to get through or can be confusing, but in general they're very interesting and fun to read.
This is a great class to take, whether it be for a gen ed or purely an elective. it's a great survey of Russian works, and I found nearly ever assignment fascinating, whether it be reading or writing. On that point, the essays are a good mix of creative and analytical, so don't feel burdened is you're worried about that.
Don't be hesitant about it, just dive right in and accept that most of what you read probably won't make sense on the surface - The course is strange: that's the point.
Best class I have ever taken at harvard.  Professor Sandler is amazing and is such a great lecturer!
Stephanie Sandler is an excellent, erudite, and enthusiastic professor - take this class if you are interested in expanding your literary and film horizons and learning more about Russian history, psychology, literature, and culture.
This is a very, very interesting class with texts that explore topics of psychology and human nature. Yet, something to note is that the class deals with some heavy texts, books that can be so disturbing and depressing that it may not be the best class to take in one's first semester here.
It's the kind of class that you really do want to do the work for, because everyone is so excited about it and it really is engaging material. But at the same time, it's so much work that it gets overwhelming. You can have a perfectly enjoyable class experience not doing the work. For me, it was a surprisingly great filler course after not getting into other classes. It gives you hope in the Slavic department.
I would highly recommend this course! Professor Sandler is a great lecturer and the discussions we had in the weekly section were incredibly helpful.  The workload isn't huge so this is a good course to take in order to fulfill a Gen Ed.
I loved Strange Russian Writers. If you have any interest in Russia, Russian literature, learning Russian as a language, or really becoming a talented analytical reader and writer you should take this course. The interesting assignments and thorough feedback are awesome. The instructors are really passionate about the material in this course, and so become the students. I really loved this class.
Great class with great reading, the assignments are interesting but low stress.
This was a fantastic course, a crash introduction to Russian literature and art. Not difficult, you just need a few hours a week to do the readings and watch any films. Professor Sandler is also amazing at lecturing/facilitating discussion, so even if you know nothing about the subject it will be enjoyable!
This class is great. The reading/movie assignments are fair and for the most part interesting. The paper assignments are very fair - there are a lot but they're shorter and spread over the semester, versus just two long papers. Professor Sandler is very enthusiastic and a great lecturer. Overall highly recommended both for gened or even just as an elective (and I'm a STEM major).
The readings for this course are very interesting and the discussions are enlightening. The workload is not bad at all. If you're interested in learning more about Russian literature, this is a great course to take.
This was an all-time favorite class for me. I loved the professor and my TF Jenya. I felt supported and encouraged to do well and improve my writing. I also love russian literature because it is very fun to read!
Yes, this a survey course, but even so its engagement with its material was incredibly and frustratingly superficial. You read (and watch) some wonderful things, but if you like in depth analysis, this is not the place for you.
Take this class!! Professor Sandler is an incredible lecturer and is reason alone to take it - but obviously you also get to read some really interesting literature. This feels like one of those classes that helped me move toward being an educated person.
Good syllabus, a great introduction to a lot of foundational Russian writers. A lot of response papers which count for almost nothing and then essays graded sort of confusingly, and a sort of annoying final.
Take this class if you haven't read Russian literature!
Professor Sandler is immensely passionate on the subject and will take you on a journey through Russian history/literature  through a myriad of famous Russian film makers and authors/poets. Make sure to do the readings, because they are honestly masterpieces, but also cause you'll be able to make the most of the class during sections and essays.
This is a very interesting class in which you will explore the different meanings of strange and will get to read both classic Russian works and works that you would have otherwise probably not read. Professor Sandler is an amazing and extremely knowledgeable instructor who will astound you with her extensive knowledge of Russian literature and her depth of analysis.
Best class I've ever taken (and I've been in school for a long time). You can't get away without reading and having really internalized the text, which is exactly what the Humanities should strive for. Beyond grateful for the joy and depth of reading that this class brought me.
This course was phenomenal and I can't recommend it highly enough. It made me fall in love with Russian short stories.  They are eery, thought-provoking, hilarious, tragic, odd... It was an incredible enjoyable way to study Russian literature in college because it didn't require you to read multiple gigantic tomes like Brothers Karamazov and Anna Karenina (which are amazing but really hard to do justice to when you have so much other work to attend to as well).  You get to read poetry and prose, watch films and consider art and Russian cultural history. Professor Sandler is extraordinary.  She is deeply passionate about what she teaches, which is contagious.  She's fabulous at stimulating discussion.  But she's also a really good person, someone that cares about her students as individuals and wants to get to know them and have interesting conversations with them.
Lots of reading and very frequent writing assignments. The lectures and professor are great!
