Don't expect to get much other work done the semester you take this -- it will dominate your existence.
It is extremely rewarding but the course requires a huge amount of work. So schedule carefully when considering the course.
Intensive second year Russian is exhilarating but overwhelming. I often felt bombarded with more grammar and vocabulary than I could process at a time, but it was an amazing experience to look back at the beginning of the semester from the end of the semester and realize just how much Russian entered my head in just a few months. I have a new dictionary in my mind, and it's a little bit terrifying.
definitely the most enjoyable class I took at Harvard (I am a junior). I have even decided to do summer school in St. Petersburg after taking this class
Don't be intimidated by intensive courses!  -- At least in the Russian department, the teachers are so supportive and the workload is by no means unmanageable.
work hard
One of the best classes you will take at Harvard.
If you are a "heritage speaker," you should definitely take this course after Slavic Ac. It's a great, well-organized course!
Very intense, difficult. Great, but hard.
This course is definitely intensive, and is not for anyone who is not willing to put in significant time to studying. I know I sometimes slacked on learning vocabulary, and it catches up with you extremely quick. The professors are wonderful (Vladimir is extremely funny and likable) and you'll learn the material at an alarmingly fast rate, if you put the time into it. It is much more difficult/work intensive than Slavic Aab.
It's Slavic Bab. It will be hard. It will be rewarding. You won't enjoy all of it, but you will enjoy the outcome.
You will learn tons of Russian, but it will be a long and painful process.
Do not take the class unless you are prepared for a very heavy workload and prepared to do a significant amount of work above and beyond what is even put in the syllabus to get a high grade. A lot of initiative is required to do well because of the lack of good organization in assignments/ materials and inability of the instructor to quickly and clearly explain a lot of the grammatical concepts. Attendance in class is strictly enforced even though lessons aren't usually very enlightening. You can learn a lot from the course it just tends to be a somewhat grueling experience.
It's important to attend class every day.
A great course, with wonderful teachers, that makes you see a fast progress in your language skills.
Incredible class. Natalia Georgievna is simply the most talented, effective, and compassionate teacher I've ever had in my entire time at Harvard. Russian is a very difficult language, and there are times when this course feels like drinking from a firehose, but because of her dedication and diligence, it is all somehow possible. Take this course for one of the most enriching academic experiences at Harvard.
so if you have the option to take this, it means you took Aab -- so you know that it's kind of cult-like and a lot of work. What changes is that you no longer learn so many groundbreaking things each week -- there are only so many tenses and conjugations to learn, after all. You begin the long, slow climb to russian proficiency by learning the subtleties
If you put into it the time it demands, this class will teach you Russian very quickly. You won't find a better instructor than Natalia Chirkov, or a better TF than Ainsley Morse. The textbook, by Chaput, leaves much to be desired; this, however, is not enough to change the fact that this is an excellent class for anyone wanting to learn Russian quickly.
Work every day on your grammar!
If you put in the time (and a huge amount of it) you'll learn an incredible amount very quickly, but you need to be willing to prioritize this class over pretty much everything else. The amount of concrete work is already significant, but you also need to be able to put in your own time studying and reviewing
If you want to go forward in your Russian studies, really do take this class. Natalia Georgievna is pedagogically extremely talented and experienced, and in my (albeit limited) experience, the Russian TFs are always amazing! I don't know if Maria will teach this next time but she is really dedicated to her students and prepares lectures and exercises that are both fun and thorough. Just try to go to all of the classes and practice regularly. It makes a big difference!
You have to really want to learn Russian.
The course is perfect for people with interest in language. It offers depth in terms of grammar and breadth in terms of cultural insights. The workload, albeit challenging some times, is well-structured and results after only a semester are impressive.
I learned a lot very quickly from the amazing professor and TF. It's intensive with weekly quizzes and more challenging readings, but Russian BAB is the most enjoyable and effective way to continue learning Russian!
This will transform you, not only intellectually but also emotionally. These teachers are amazing and to work with them is a great joy.
I would only recommend if the student has time and is willing to dedicate an inordinate amount of time to preparing for the class each day.
Russian BAB is a very logical continuation of BAB and a very welcome chance to continue learning from the illustrious and magnificent Natalia Georgievna. It is a good review and step-by-step building on the basic Russian skills you will need as you continue on. Content is less monumental, since theres not a new case or fundamental aspect of grammar to learn each week, but it is still a great class.
Take this class ONLY if you seriously want to master the Russian language. They take the word "intensive" in "Intermediate Intensive" very seriously and expect a lot from you. But, you will leave knowing Russian very well!
