IT'S DOSTOEVSKY. JUST DO IT.
This class takes you through almost all of Dosteovsky's major works with a great deal of background information and analysis provided by Professor Todd. I came into this course already loving Dostoevsky and having read several of his novels and came out with a fuller appreciation of his works and a better understanding of his time and philosophy.
I really enjoyed all of the works that were discussed in this class. I appreciated Prof. Todd's ability to contextualize the works and provide information on the author, the writing process, the publishing process, Russia at the time of the works, and literary/narrative style. The conference portions of the course also provided students the ability to discuss portions of the novels which may have remained unaddressed in class. Both Prof. Todd and Ania were highly accessible - take advantage of this! Some of my most meaningful experiences from the course came out of out-of-class conversations with both of them.
high-intensity intermediate-level course on dostoevskylikely not suitable for beginners or for advanced students
An excellent reading of some of Dostoevsky's novels! Professor Todd really does a wonderful job in broadening and deepening understandings of Dostoevsky's works.
Great survey of Dostoevsky's writings
This was a wonderful course, but make sure you like Dostoevsky before you sign up. This course is not for the faint of heart - there is a good amount of reading and a good amount of writing, but it is completely worth it if you are able to put in the time. Professor Todd is an invaluable resource and learning from him was both a privilege and a pleasure.
Slavic 155 gives an excellent and comprehensive introduction to Dostoevsky's work and the times in which he lived.  I highly highly recommend it.
Todd is an acclaimed Dostoevsky scholar.  Take his class.
Todd is a Dostoevsky expert.  Definitely use his knowledge to your fullest and see him at office hours.  the reading is so good.
Professor Todd is a knowledgable and fantastic teacher, and exposure to a great, challenging author like Dostoevsky is always a great experience for an undergraduate.
Professor Todd is wonderful and the readings are great. However, discussions for our year didn't always gel, for whatever reason. Maybe it's because much of the course ends up being lecture. In any case, I'd definitely take this course if you're interested in the readings, but if not you might want to skip it.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. It's well-taught, well-researched, and you get to read a lot of great books.
There are two good reasons to take this class: the first one is that you will read Dostoevsky's masterpieces, which are among the highest achievements of the human spirit; the second one is that this incredible material is taught by an equally incredible professor. Professor Todd is one of the few academics I've met in my years at Harvard who love their job and what they teach to the point of humbly guiding you through the richness of the material without ever sounding pretentious or arrogant. This approach is the only way that allows the beauty and complexity of these texts to emerge in its fulness, without being suppressed by the interpretative arrogance (and ignorance) that so often one finds in literature professors. Overall, this is certainly among the top 3 classes I've taken here in 4 years. To say it's a must it's a strong understatement.
This was by and far my favorite class this semester.  The teaching staff is phenomenal (Professor Todd is not only a great teacher, but also friendly, approachable, and enthusiastic).  Be prepared to read and write, but if you are at all interested in Dostoevsky or Russian literature, take this course - it was incredibly rewarding and enjoyable.
An AMAZING course. Take it if you are at all interested in Dostoevsky or the meaning of life. Professor Todd is one of Harvard's finest.
I thought this course was really disappointing. Professor Todd is an authority on Dostoevsky, but his lectures are quite brief and general. Most class time is dedicated to group discussion and the reading of students' position papers. This format might have worked well, except that the students who take this class are mostly intolerable. And neither the undergrads nor the graduate students seem to have anything productive so say about anything  they spend a lot of time asking rhetorical questions and talking about giant abstract ideas without ever rooting anything in the texts themselves. This quickly became very frustrating. In addition, Professor Todd is an expert in narratology, and I would have loved to hear him lecture more from that critical perspective on Dostoevsky's novels, instead of less interesting and/or relevant intellectual and personal histories of the author. In short, this course needs to be more about lecture and less about annoying people who think they are super profound because they took a course on Dostoevsky.
An excellent course-- the material (D's main novels) is the best you could hope for in a college course, and the professor is both extremely knowledgeable and adept at presenting the material to students. Excellently put together course on one of the great writers.
It is a seminar for graduate students.
Professor Todd is brilliant, one of the very top scholars in his field, and just a wonderful person. His course on Dostoevsky was conducted in a seminar format usually with lecture in the first part of class and discussion among the group in the remaining time.For someone who had not read Dostoevsky before, it was a marvelous experience to read his works and be led through the material with Professor Todds perspective, insight, and guidance. His TF, Katie, who led the conferences, was excellent as well. Taking the course with graduate students (about half the class) and students who spoke Russian also enriched the course greatly. The class is a prime example of what Harvard should be all about.I would recommend this course as highly as I can for anybody who is interested in reading and learning about the works of Dostoevsky who is one of the greatest thinkers and writers of all time.A class dinner hosted by Professor Todd at the end of reading period is also one of the highlights of the course.
It's helpful to come with some experience reading Dostoevsky--the class is pretty fast-paced in terms of the amount of reading, especially considering how dense and complex it can be. But it's a great opportunity to learn so much about this amazing author.
If you're interested in Dostoevsky, and don't mind packing away a few hundred pages of reading a week, then by all means take this course!  Whether you're reading some of these works for the first time, or the twentieth, Prof. Todd is a wonderful lecturer and will show you new sides to each of the novels you'd never thought of before.
