It is very difficult, especially at the beginning, to get a handle on the material.  But you will reach a certain point where everything just starts to 'click', and then you'll be all set.  The course is amazing, engaging, and really cool.
If you want to learn Greek, this is the place to do it!
A great way to get background in Greek for anyone who wants to learn for whatever reason.
This class allows you to learn a new language in a creative way.  It is not your standard language class - it is one that pushes your comfortable limits through exploration of film, poetry, music, and other Greek culture.
Although not as demanding as many introductory classes, Mod. Greek A really teaches a lot of Greek in a fun and different way.
This was my favourite class that I took ALL year. I had a lot of fun and learnt a lot of Greek at the same time. My classmates were fantastic and the teacher is wonderful. Everyone should take MODGRKA :)
I would say that Dr Rapti is excellent at incorporating exciting student-led learning opportunities into the course, which makes it very stimulating and really worthwhile.
This course is an amazing introduction to Modern Greek language and culture! I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about Greece or traveling to Greece one day. I would also recommend it to students who are looking to learn a new language in order to fulfill their foreign language requirements. This has been by far one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard and the small class size has made it especially rewarding!
there is a lot of work and time committment but it is a fun environment
It's a fantastic class, especially if you need to fulfill a language requirement
This class is amazing! Dr. Rapti and David Hansen are a great team and are so supportive in the language learning process. They really do care about your progress and made the class fun and relaxed, making the class really enjoyable.
The instructors are very enthusiastic and happy to have you. The class, however, is incredibly disorganized, and makes it very difficult to pick up the language if you have little to no experience with it prior.
This class is wonderful! Professor Rapti and David are the sweetest, most helpful and caring people ever. The class is small and you will  get so much personal attention. You will learn so much Greek in such a short amount of time and be able to do all kinds of fun projects and assignments.
Great intro to Greek class, take it if you have any interest at all in the subject!
This class is the best class to take if you would like a teacher who really cares and invests in her students.  Learning Greek is so fun with Professor Rapti and David. Take this course if you want to learn Greek!
Best language class at Harvard
The teachers are amazing and so welcoming and you really have a lot of fun in the class, while learning the Greek language quickly.
The teachers are awesome and funny and care about the class a lot. It's a bit hard to get started (for a language) but A++ would take again.
This class is a great introduction to Modern Greek. Material is taught somewhat quickly, but the class is tailored to what the students need to work on and master. So although only one class might entail a certain subject, future classes always come back to the subject, allowing students to master all material.
you get out what you put in.
If you want to learn a beautiful language and potentially go to the most beautiful country in the world, sign up for this class. The professor and TF are both phenomenal and instill a love for Greek language and culture in their students. A+
I would hope that all students who decide to take this course come excited to learn a new language or enhance what little experience they have and to be prepared to dedicate the appropriate amount of time to learning it.
The teachers are wonderful and the class is small, fun, and very interactive. A great way to learn Greek - take this course!
The instructors in this language course will share more with you about their country's culture than a lot of other modern language instructors do, which is very nice.
Goes at a relaxed pace and Professor Rapti and Calliopi are very helpful - they make learning Greek fun.
This is an excellent class.  You will learn a lot about Greek language and culture.  Professor Rapti and Calliopi are great.  It is not that much work and it is a lot of fun!
I thoroughly enjoyed taking this course.  I had no prior knowledge of modern Greek but Professor Rapti and Calliopi Dourou did a great job of simplifying the material.  It is very important to spend time studying the material outside of class because most exercises are discussion-based.  Many of the activities involve writing dialogues and creating stories incorporating new vocabulary, so someone who enjoys creative writing should also consider this course.  The homework load was very light.  Overall, a great course!
An excellent, intimate way to learn modern Greek.  This class quickly becomes like a family.
This class is amazing! The instructors are great, and the class is one of the most enjoyable I have taken at Harvard.
It's great!
What a wonderfully personal class.  Vassiliki and Vladimir are passionate about the language and warmly invite every student into the discussion.
It's a great class! You get to know your professor really well and develop a great relationship with your peers.
The course is highly engaging and stimulating.
Great teacher with fun classes
It's a great class - I went in knowing very little Modern Greek (like counting, colors, random vocabulary), and I came out with a knowledge of the grammar style, infinitely more vocabulary, and a little bit of fluency!  The professor is great and really understanding, and always available to help answer your questions!
a great class where you will make many friends!
You can get so much out of this class! And the small setting is great for forming bonds with your classmates. I loved this course.
Vassiliki is awesome! She is passionate about Greek and is very flexible and willingly to do anything to help you understand and succeed. This class has helped me have basic knowledge of the Greek language and now I feel confident in my abilities to have a simple conversation with somebody from Greece.
Modern Greek A is a fantastic course that fully introduces you to the Greek language and culture. It is taught at a manageable pace and you will be surprised at how much Greek you have learned at the end of the course. The workload is very manageable and Professor Rapti (and her assistant) are enthusiastic about everything Greek. If you have any interest in the Greek language, or are looking to take an interesting language for a requirement, take this class. You won't be disappointed.
It is a cool language and culture to learn about, and this course will provide you with the intensity to learn a lot very fast, but it is also super fun and not too stressful.
A great class if you're looking to start Greek at an easy level.
Dr. Rapti does a terrific job of catering to students' needs and teaching a course that is both engaging and worthwhile.
Although the class is definitely much easier than most introductory language courses, by the end of the first semester, we have learned enough Greek to understand some Greek music and we know five verb tenses already.  Greek is a fun but challenging language, and I would definitely recommend this class as an introduction to the language.
I look forward to this class every time we have it! We always have so much fun and the language is beautiful. I'm learning a lot.
As the only introduction to Modern Greek available, this course is recommended for students interested in the study thereof, particularly those with Greek heritage. However, this class is most likely not the absolute best method to learn the language.
As an introduction to Modern Greek from the very beginning, it is excellent.
This course is by far one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Dr. Rapti is an amazing instructor - she teaches with enthusiasm and has a deep knowledge of Modern Greek. She also makes all students feel comfortable and engaged in the course. The course will open your eyes to Modern Greek language and Greek culture and will teach you the most important fundamentals of Modern Greek. I am so happy that I decided to take this course and I am looking forward to continuing with it next semester!
I recommend this class if you want to have a great time learning a new language!!
its a great course with a great professor - i feel like ive learned so much already and its only been one semester!
You must have a real motivation to study greek, if not, it can be extremely frustrating and confusing.
If you're interested in learning a foreign language, this is a great class! The environment is relaxed and studious, a great combination, and you learn a lot!
You will learn quite a bit of Greek and have lots of fun with Vassiliki!
it is sometimes frustrating, but exciting to learn a new language.
A really fun and relatively easy way to get your foreign language requirement out of the way.
The teaching staff is part of the reason this class is so wonderful.  They care about their students more than any teachers I have ever seen.  I am so grateful for the attention and care received while learning Greek.
I love this class so much! Dr. Rapti and David are a great team and have made class a pleasure from beginning to end. I feel like my Greek has developed a lot from when I started and I am excited to continue with the language. Dr. Rapti and David are so nice, approachable, and patient, so feel free to reach out whenever you need help.
This class is absolutely a delight. Dr. Rapti's enthusiasm and patience make her the perfect teacher for language. The workload was absolutely manageable, and pressure is roved to allow for stress free, uninhibited learning.
Professor Rapti is amazing! She is the nicest woman ever and really wants to see everyone do well and have fun. She is open to all of our feedback and suggestions. Our TF David was also so nice and helpful. We learned a lot of conversational Greek and were able to keep reviewing and making things more concrete throughout the year.
The class is structured in such a way that gives the student a lot of independent study time. The lectures are fast paced and good prepartion for the lessons is crucial. Vocabulary building is a huge responsibility.
Although an introductory course, Modern Greek A is full of enthused individuals who possess an interest in Greek culture because of the rarity of the language. The teaching fellow who instructs this course is very effusive and appreciative of Greek culture and does his best to incite similar appreciation in his students. Due to low enrollment, the class is essentially taught in section and in this fashion, facilitates personalized attention. I enthusiastically recommend this course for anyone with an interest in Greek culture or who is discovering something new and fascinating.
It's a very challenging course, but it's a class that you leave every day feeling like you've actually accomplished something.  That's a good feeling.
great course with a professor and TA that care
This was an excellent course. It was both challenging and enjoyable. The class and department are small, and there is a lot of flexibility. The faculty are lovely people and so much fun to work with, and at the end of the semester you will have learned basic Greek in a relatively stress-free way! This is a great course for fun, for future academics, and for a language requirement.
Great way to dive into modern Greek and really accomplish a fair amount at the year's end.
This is an amazing class! The professors are enthusiastic and you spend a lot of time practicing the language.
great course; not much required work, and lenient grading
This is a great class! It is warm, flexible, low stress, and interesting. It is heavily speech-based, with the classes being held mostly in Greek, with little English. Vassiliki is lovely. The only thing to be prepared for is to take initiative yourself for keeping track of assignments etc. because there is some ambiguity about what is due when.
Very good for learning Greek, but is slightly disorganized at times. Make sure you save every single one of your assignments, as you have to turn in a portfolio of all of your work throughout the semester at the end.
The best language class out there.
This is a great course! It could be a little bit more organized but it's great regardless. Professor Rapti is wonderful and cares about all of her students succeeding.
This class will give you a great intro to Modern Greek. Professor Rapti is enthusiastic about the course and you practice the vocab you learn a lot so that you retain it.
There's a reason this class consistently keeps receiving good q-guide scores. Such a good language course and Vassiliki is the sweetest!! Really flexible with assignments and makes learning Greek fun. I would highly recommend taking Greek if you're looking for a language or a fun elective.
I would tell anyone interested in learning modern Greek that this class is a great way to begin and introduces a number of different methods of learning (skit dialogues, songs, etc).
