This is a great class. You will learn a great deal about Seferis and Prof. Rapti will be a great resource in the process. I highly recommend taking this class.
Vassiliki and her staff are great.  I always felt that I got proper support in this class, and I did end up learning a lot about both George Seferis and Greek history.  It can be a bit difficult for a student not fully fluent in Greek, but the teaching staff will be certain to help you out.
This class is certainly an advanced Greek course that  will challenge your reading skills and writing skills, but it is so worth it in the end when you have improved your Greek all together
This is a wonderful class and you will learn a lot. It's also not particularly hard and Professor Rapti is really great and fun.
If you re interested in learning about the life and works of one of the most influential Modern Greek poets, definitely take this course!
This is a great class! There was a disparity in the levels of Greek the students spoke (one student is from Greece, while another has only studied Greek for two years), but the professors accommodated all, and we all had a blast!
This was a very interesting class that revolved around Modern Greek movies and literature. You get to watch and discuss recent movies by Voulgaris, Angelopoulos and other Greek directors as well as literary works. Also, the course assistants teaching the class, Vladimir and Calliope, are amazing. Very knowledgeable and extremely helpful they kept our interest elevated. They both have a unique insight in Greek literature and they generate a lot of enthusiasm. Take this class if you feel pretty comfortable with Modern Greek and have a desire to better appreciate Modern Greek cinema and literature in an engaging and creative atmosphere.
A wonderful, flexible class where you get to watch movies, discuss them with Vassiliki, and guide the discussion in whichever way you want.
Vassiliki is amazing. The class is a lot of fun and really improved my Greek.
If you have a solid (although definitely not perfect or grammatically correct)ability to speak and read Greek, I strongly recommend taking this class to enhance and practice your Greek! It's a fantastic way to improve with the language while not being overly demanding.
Take this class! Even if you have to take it as a fifth course. It is extremely laid back, and is actually a really nice break from college stress and an opportunity for you to discover some amazing authors and connect with Greek culture.
This is probably the best class I 've taken at Harvard. Probably the best course I 've taken so far. The class was an actual community, we had perfect communication with Mrs. Calliopi and we also learned a lot in a non-frustrating environment. Absolutely loved it. It is a must for all advanced Greek speakers (if you are a native speaker don't think about it - take the class no matter what you concentrate in).
This course is great!  It allows one to see the Greek crisis from different perspectives, particularly creative ones.  The course allows students to find their own interests within the Greek crisis, and they can chose to explore whatever topics they like.  The response papers are helpful ways to recap the discussions in class.
Amazing opportunities to engage with contemporary Greek poets, playwrights, and authors!
I would tell them that this is an amazing opportunity to improve one's modern Greek while at the same time engaging with some of the most current topics in Greek's history and culture.
