Go into this class expecting to give it as much as you can, because you will need to.  If you do, it is very worth it, and you will gain a lot of appreciation for the Greek language, as well as the culture.
Need some background in Modern Greek, and be prepared to learn a lot and work hard, but in a really great learning environment that is not stressful.
This class is really fun and has a lot to offer. Vassiliki is super great!
This is a fantastic course!  The emphasis on creativity and collaboration results in a unique learning experience.
This is a fantastic course.  You will learn to speak and understand modern Greek very well, and have a lot of fun too. Not a lot of work, and definitely worth it.
graduate students should be prepared to be in a classroom with undergraduate students, who may have very different expectations from this class and a different level of commitment
This class is absolutely amazing. I learned a lot and the instructors are really good, approachable, knowledgeable and enthusiastic.
this class is great! You may start Mod Greek thinking that you will do it only for one semester and you may realize that you love it and want to take it as long as you are at Harvard!!!
A fantastic class!
This is a fun class and can serve as a nice break from other grueling courses. Because it was a small class, I got to know my classmates rather well and Vassiliki was just an awesome instructor.
Greek B is an awesome class! It's great seeing your Greek improve, and the atmosphere is both fun and conducive to learning.
Take this class, especially if you are a heritage speaker or plan to travel to Greece. It is truly rewarding.
This class was intimate and very interactive! It was also fun and relaxed, but challenging at the same time because of the knowledgable instructors that were flexible with their schedules to accommodate the class needs. Highly recommend if you took ModGrk A or have a good knowledge of Greek! Dr. Rapti is the best!
Reservations because the students would need to already have a basic knowledge of Modern Greek to enter into the class (and it's a very niche language). Otherwise, I would recommend it with enthusiasm.
Modern Greek is a great language, and the Modern Greek program has great support for teaching Greek at all levels.
This class was somewhat difficult at the beginning. The best way to prepare is to review things learned in Modern Greek A. It got very fun once we started reading the short story and worked on it during each class. The final project is a great and fun way to wrap-up the class and brought together a lot of things that we worked on and learned throughout the semester in a creative way.
The class is great and you learn to love Vassiliki and Vladimir. The small class size is great for language learning.
This is an incredible course.  You will gain near fluency in Greek, and will have a lot of fun doing so.
I would warn graduate students that the course is oriented primarily at undergraduate students. since the instructor needs to accommodate intests of very different students, the course might come as a disappointment to those who might take it wishing to quickly learn to read academic publications (etc.) in Greek.
If you want to learn Greek, you will need to put in work outside of class. If you are willing to do that, this is an excellent course. If  you do not have a desire to study hard to master vocabulary and improve your Greek skills, you could get by in the class, but it will not enrich your Greek.
Professor Rapti is a very kind person and always willing to take suggestions that would improve the course.
Take a course in Modern Greek with this professor who knows the language, the culture, and how to relate to students with enthusiasm and dedication.
WIth a wonderful teaching staff, this is a fun and fantastic class to enjoy. A highlight of every week.
Modern Greek B is a great class. It is very hard, but it allows you to learn a lot of Greek and improve your language skills. The teaching staff truly cares about you, and they will do everything they can to help you get the most out of the class. There is a lot of hands on work in this class, and students get a lot of say in the direction the class takes, which is great! Professor Rapti is so sweet and she really cares for all of her students. The TF, Simos, is a great guy who is very knowledgable and a great teacher. Together they made a great team. My Greek definitely improved, and the class was not overwhelming at all. It was very enjoyable!
The Modern Greek B course is a great course to help continue learning the Greek language.  Practicing the Greek language on a more advance level with advance
