If you're interested in Don Quijote (which you should be because it's just one of those books that you should read), then there's no better person to read it with than Prof. Gaylord, who is definitely one of the few American authorities on the book. While class never ended on time and some discussions weren't as pointed as I'd wished they were, you definitely will have a solid grip on a fundamental literary text after this class. Make sure you have a good grip on your Spanish before you take this course, and that you'd be comfortable writing up to 10 pages in the language.
This is a fantastic course taught by one of the best professors in the RLL department. I would highly recommend this course to anyone who is willing to put in the time required to really read and understand Don Quijote.
Don Quijote is a wonderful text, and if you want to read it in a pretty low-pressure environment, this is it. The course is loosely structured and there are many essays and reading assignments but you never feel like anything is too stressful. Professor Gaylord LOVES Don Quijote and WILL speak for an entire class without letting anyone contribute, but she knows what she's talking about. You should probably read Don Quijote whether you take this course or not, but reading it with an expert on the novel is pretty cool.
This course is amazing if you're looking for a focused introduction to Spanish literature - is is in fact the most famous Spanish text and deemed the first modern novel. Get ready to read a lot, but its enjoyable and entertaining - lots of laughs. You will be challenged no matter your level in Spanish, and you should prepare to back up your points with textual evidence in both class and essays. The final project is daunting - a 10 page paper - but you get through it and it's amazing to think that you can actually write that much in Spanish. Your Spanish will improve tremendously as will your cultural understanding of Spain.  Don Quijote and his trusty escudero Sancho Panza are a dangerous duo - you'll need a whole semester to even start to understand them!
