Only take it if you really love Spanish literature
Make sure you can read novels and academic essays in Spanish without having to look up every other word in the dictionary. I would only recommend this course for advanced Spanish or native speakers.
Take this class if you want to learn about the evolution of Latin American literature. Magical Realism is not it's only focus.
This is one of the best classes I have taken. You read amazing literature, and Prof. Siskind gets you very excited about it, if you weren't already. If you want to read riveting texts in Spanish and have a fun time discussing them, this is an excellent class to take.
It's an easy course that will help your Spanish but not your appreciation of Latin American literature. It's good to knock some famous authors off your to-read list. However, the theme of the course (Magical Realism) really limits the scope of the in-class analysis.
Professor Siskind's lectures are wonderful; the way in which he contextualizes the literature he teaches made me feel like I can do it much more justice than I could have done without taking the class.  He also just comes off as a very nice man and seems very accessible to anyone who takes an interest in his class.
If you want to know Latin American literature, take this class. If you want to understand Latin America, its culture, and its politics, take this class.
I would tell students only to take this class if they were prepared to read novels in Spanish. I was unprepared for the extreme effort it took to read post-modern novels in Spanish.
Good readings and insightful interpretations from the professor.
It was a great introduction to some interesting works of Latin American literature, and almost always a pleasure.
key class if you want a sort of intro to the latin american novel of the last 50 years
it's a fun class
This class provides an opportunity to read and discuss some of the best literature produced in the last century--seize it!
If you are comfortable reading spanish, and can confidently voice your opinions on Spanish literature, there is no better course. Mariano is wonderful and engaging and very easy to listen and talk to.
It is a very enjoyable course with very interesting literature.  The texts are not easy to understand, but they are entertaining and diverse.
It was definitetly a very enjoyable class and I can't wait to keep reading books by the authors we read and discussed. I
You should be ready to spend hours reading novels and literary criticism.
