This class allows you to analyze the strange instances that can lead someone to become a murderer. It is a fascinating topic that can allow you to discover many things about yourself as well.
Take this course. The material is gripping and the lectures/discussions are skillfully directed by Prof. Delgado to explore both the historical and the literary tensions provoked by depictions of violence. It was enthralling.
This is a very relevant course with an engaging and enthusiastic professor. However, you should make sure you are not disturbed by scrutinizing graphic images of violence before you enroll in this course.
This course shows students an often understudied area of literary criticism in a clear manner with numerous optional readings for further study. The professor is himself interested in the study and brings enthusiasm and expertise to the classroom.
This class is great--Sergio is a genius. Be prepared to do a lot of reading. And don't take this if you're squeamish--the violence aspect is not a joke. Prepare for photos of decapitated heads, severed limbs, sexual violence, hung bodies, and more. Not for the faint of heart.
Be ready to do your readings or else you are wasting your time.
Excellent course and professor. Difficult subject matter taught thoughtfully and graciously.
The readings are long, but the conversations are worth it!
You learn a lot you might not otherwise, and the truth is the material is very interesting and worthy of being discussed. I think people might be wary of taking the class since it studies violence and representations of violence, among them photography, which receives a certain emphasis; and, while some of the material is strong, it is always dealt with delicately. Besides, the more explicit pictures aren't discussed until the end of the semester, so they don't come so much as a shock. In spite of the nature of the material, I don't think anyone ever felt distressed, or even more than mildly ill at ease, which is, I think, a testament of how carefully the class was designed.
