This is a fun class.  It is not easy but you will find yourself comprehending the language more and more even when you aren't thinking about it.
You get to go to a class and just be yourself in a different language.
To be successful in this coruse as with any language you will need to put in significant time outside the classroom.  However, you can still enjoy the class as I did without that but getting an A grade will be near impossible.
GO TO CLASS! It's usually a lot of fun, and you'll learn the material much more easily.
Be sure to review everyday
It is not an easy introductory class. There is a lot of busy work. There is a large emphasis on listening skills which is very helpful.
Don't expect an easy A
The class is what you make of it. The construction of the assignments and quizzes is such that one can make it through most of the course without actually studying much, but the resources available are sufficient to generate a proficiency beyond what one would expect from a second introductory semester of Spanish.
If you are taking the class for a requirement its going to be tough, but there's nothing you can do so suck it up.
Really painless and you learn a lot. If you have some free spots, you should take it!
Profesora Liander is fabulous. Never has an hour of language class passed by so quickly!
This class is very fun and easy to participate in with other students. I feel as though it was the most social class I have taken.  However, the class work does get heavy at times and you must keep focused.
This is a great class because the teachers are excellent and the class fosters a close community because you are generally with the same people for four days a week for an entire year. The class activities are often funny and a great way to practice Spanish.
This class is really fun and useful.
i recommend it to students who grasp new languages easily.
The class requires a lot of time to be put into the workbook component.
Very hard unless you know some spanish already
Very fast moving.
The only fun class you will take during freshman year. You are encouraged to interact with your classmates, which is unusual for any of the classes i've taken.
It's a good way to clear your language rec.
You will learn a lot of Spanish and get a lot of practice, reading, writing, and speaking it.
Great class.
Great and fun course!
It does give a good basic understanding of Spanish.
Good teacher.
Get Jorge as your teacher!
It goes at a slightly faster pace than the majority of spanish classes in high school, but it is extremely easy to follow after you get the hang of it.
It's boring and somewhat stupid, but a really well done intro language class.
This course is great for learning grammar and verb tenses. How effective the class is really depends on who your section leader is.
Whether or not you like the course depends on your TF.
This is a great class to learn spanish.
Participate and don't be afraid to ask when you're lost or unable to understand multiple words/phrases.
It's a fun, low-stress way to start learning Spanish.
Very easy A as long as you do the work.
This is great course to take if you want to learn Spanish and don't have a strong background in Spanish.
Sometimes it feels like it moves a bit fast, so definitely review stuff when you get the chance.
A great way to learn/practice Spanish.
Do not just take this course to fulfill a language requirement. Take Portuguese. Most of the other kids who are taking it to fulfill their requirement have taken Spanish before. Believe me.
Study the verb tenses as they come up.
Spanish Ab is a good introduction to Spanish, but it can be difficult if you have never taken Spanish before.
It's fun and not like high school language classes.
Dr. Liander is model teacher who truly cares about her students.
If you really want to learn a language well, then this course is great. However, it will probably be frustrating for students who don't really care about learning the language and are just taking it for the language requirement. The teachers are a lot of fun and the small class size makes it a good environment for learning where you really get to know your classmates well.
The Harvard Language Department immerses you in the language so that you may truly learn it. This is not high school, you will have to learn the language in order to succeed here.
this is a good introductory course for someone who has never taken spanish though you will probably be better off if you've had some spanish experience in high school
If you're going to take spanish you want Mariana as your teacher!
this is an amazing class and can really help you become fluent
I really enjoyed it.  Sometimes it's hard to remind yourself to speak Spanish in class ut you have to remind yourself.
Make sure you understand the grammar
Be ready to work, but if you want to learn Spanish, than take it
It is a basic spanish class.
Great, fun way to learn beginner spanish.
Elena is wonderful! She will teach you so much. Easy to understand and you can relate to all her examples. Very interactive class
Just put in a few hours a week and it is a fairly easy way to boost the GPA
Definitely take this class. Useful, interesting and fun: it has it all.
Very fun and engaging way of learning spanish.
The course can be done well with reasonable effort, and it gives students the tools they need to move on toward an ultimate goal of achieving fluency in Spanish.
be sure to practice and participate in secion everyday
Professor Liander is excellent, i would highly recommend her and the course.
It's great.
You will have to work hard but you will really learn a lot.
Great class!
I absolutely loved my Spanish class. I was really able to see myself learning and using the material. I have found myself thinking and speaking in Spanish much more, to the point of annoying my family when I have visited home because I am translating everything I say into Spanish.
awesome if you want to learn spanish
I think that you should be aware when you take this course. Since it is taught solely in section, you should find a great section leader. Otherwise, you should be prepared for an awful semester.
A good way to learn a useful language
Really good class. Keep up with the vocabulary and work and you will be fine. A
Get as involved with your class as possible! The atmosphere of my class was very encouraging and it was fun to participate
Take this class! It's an incredible class that is pretty easy; what more could you ask for?
It's a good Spanish classs, keep up with the chapters and online homework and you'll learn a lot.
This class was great! After taking Spanish in high school and entering unable  to speak or remember any conjugations I felt like I learned more than all my high school spanish classes put together.  Its hard sometimes to understand what the teacher is saying, but that's part of language immersion I guess.
Get Marta or David, both are excellent instructors!
Don't opt for an early morning class if you cannot concentrate in the morning.
It is a poorly taught class. I felt like the final project was for a 4th grade class. An art project? Really? If you have a background in Spanish take Aa and Ab if you are trying to get it over with. This class is not that great. It is pretty easy, but it's easy for everyone, so even if you produce good work, your grade might suffer because kids who took 5 years of Spanish in high school are sitting next to you getting As because they have great work.
Spanish Ab is not too difficult. Just be prepared to learn a lot in a short period of time. You will have to study by yourself later on after the class too if you plan on retaining so much material.
Not too bad
It's fast paced but if you like learning a language do it!
It is a lot of fun
Make sure not to be tardy in getting your assignments in on time.
It is a very good introductory Spanish class. It was a fun course that helps fulfill the language requirement.
This class goes quickly and requires a solid knowledge of vocabulary as you learn a new chapter often and grammar is the focus.
This course is a great confidence booster, especially for those who do not have a strong background in the language but wish to be able to communicate effectively.
Easy enough. Not extremely rewarding.
This is a great class that progresses smoothly over the course of the year.
This was a great class. Its super easy and does not require a lot of work. Maria is a fantastic TF, she really encouraged participation in section. I really enjoyed the class and learned a great deal of Spanish. My communication skills improved greatly.
If you took Spanish in high school, but feel rusty with grammar and vocabulary then take this class. It will be a great review and you will probably learn some new grammar as well depending on how much you learned in high school. David is also a great and helpful teacher.
Definitely take this class. The work is extremely manageable and you learn a lot from this class.
Very good opportunity to develop your understanding of the spanish language in a pressure-free environment with great people.
This course really helped me cement my foundation in Spanish, and it wasn't too demanding. It is well taught and well organized. There is homework every day, but it usually doesn't take too much time. There are also weekly essays (~1 page), but these are also helpful and not too time consuming.
The first thing you will notice in this class is the wide range of backgrounds students are coming from. Some spoke Spanish at home but never reached full proficiency, others (like me) took a few years of high school Spanish, while others took Harvard's Spanish AA class. The trick to this class is asking questions, because there is going to be vocabulary thrown around that NO ONE in the room knows, but EVERYONE will act like they do, to avoid embarrassment. As far as Spanish skills are concerned, I learned SO MUCH in this single term. I now realize what a lousy understanding of the language I had before this class! Marta is an outstanding instructor, also. We were lucky to have her!
If you know a little bit of Spanish, but you don't really think you know enough for Spanish C, if you let it, this course will give you a good, working understanding of Spanish. It is very useful.
Learning a language is a great way to make friends and learn a ton, with out too much stress or effort!
I mean, it is what you'd expect, a pretty decent second year Spanish class. Would be enjoyable if you took AA and then took AB to fulfill the language requirement but I'm not looking forward to C.
Just because of the tediousness of language courses, I wouldn't recommend it unless the person had to fulfill the requirement--otherwise, it was a fun and easy course, so that should count.
Great class! Better with a smaller set up, maybe ten people in a section.
This is a good next step if you want to keep studying Spanish after Aa or after high school if you are fairly advanced. Try to speak outside of class and practice! Speak to other students, the language tables, even workers in the dhall if they want to. Order in Spanish at Felipe's. The more you use this language and apply it to your life, the more comfortable you will be.
This class was not super intensive and was definitely my easiest class. It has homework everyday but if you concentrate, this can be finished in an hour or less.
It is easy but it is a big time commitment with four classes a week and a lot of busy work.
Your Spanish language benefit is 100% related to the amount of time you put into it. Just cramming for exams the night before will not help you learn the language.
If you have taken Spanish before, you should take this over Aa, it's still easy and Aa will be super boring. This class requires time every night and consistent attendance, and if you just do that you will learn minimal spanish. You have to put some effort in to get anything out of it.
Good language class.
This class is a lot of busy work, and can be very frustrating for people with a heavy workload in other classes. It's a lot of route memorization that you have to really be willing to commit to outside of just the class if you actually want to 'learn' Spanish rather than just take a lot of stressful quizzes.
Although it is supposed to be the second level introductory course, it is pretty face-paced and difficult if you have never seen some of the material before.
This Spanish class is a good overview of the basics of Spanish without starting at the beginning. If you took any Spanish in high school, you should be fine in this class. Also, it is a fantastic class to take if you took Spanish before but took a year or two off. It offers a comprehensive review.
This class is a low pressure way to move forward from basic Spanish studies.
This is a good course for beginners, or those who've studied spanish previously but haven't gained the skills to be competent. Read the next few pages after your assignments so you're prepared for class the next day. Marta Llorente Bravo is THE GREATEST, SWEETEST PERSON EVER. And she knows a lot about languages (not just Spanish and English). The small nature of this course will bring you out of your comfort zone. Embrace it.
David is great! Some people come in already knowing more Spanish than you might think is fair, but the material is interesting and the sections are fun.
If you want to improve your Spanish, then this course will quickly put you on the right course.
This class will sneakily teach you quite a lot of Spanish, and is never too stressful.
Take this if you've taken a little bit of Spanish in high school (easy A!).
Make sure you have a strong understanding of the basics of Spanish. Even if you have taken 2 years of Spanish and are placed in Spanish AB, I would recommend going to every class during shopping week. If you are lost the majority of the time during shopping week, you will be lost for the majority of the class also. It's not impossible to complete the class if this occurs; it is just more difficult.
This is a good class to reaffirm Spanish you may have been taught rather unsuccessfully in high school.  The workload isn't too difficult so long as you put a little effort in you should do reasonably well.
Maria is awesome :D She and David both have great senses of humor and will make the hour fly by! This is a great class for people with some Spanish background, like if you studied it a couple years in high school but it's been a while (if you've taken 4 years, this will be too easy & you should go for Spanish C instead). Spanish Ab moves at a quick pace for beginners but is very manageable, and by the end you will have learned a lot! Heads up that the ~$70 fee for the online workbook is unavoidable, even if you buy the textbook used.
If you've taken AP Spanish in high school, this class is very easy and is a great way to keep your Spanish language skills sharp.
This class is great, especially if you have Prisca as your teacher-she is the best! The workload is incredibly manageable, you learn a lot but have fun. Tests are very fair. If you pay attention and are engaged in class you will have to do minimal work and studying outside of class. Also do not be worried about the oral presentation as I initially was, it is not bad at all!
For those of you who are strongly considering learning spanish, Spanish Ab is a great place to start given that you have a decent background in spanish. The course is taught very well and is a great precursor to more intensive spanish classes.
I had Mari Luz as my teacher and I would honestly have to say that she is probably my favorite teacher of all time! She genuinely cares about her students and is always ready to answer questions! She also gets everyone to talk in class, even if the class is at 9am in the morning! It was hard adjusting to her accent since she has a Spanish accent and I'm used to the Mexican accent, but once you can understand her, you can practically understand anyone speaking Spanish! Exams and homework were reasonable. Take this class !
A low-key, enjoyable way to fulfill your language requirement, assuming you get a good TF. The work is ejoyable (for the most part) and relatively easy/
There is not nearly enough of an opportunity to practice speaking with guidance.
Great class! Not a ton of work and I learned a lot!
This class is a fun and effective way to learn Spanish. Profesora Maria de la Luz Cabellero Bort is amazing!
It's worth while and helps learn the language.
This is a fun class that gets easier if you participate and talk more in spanish
This class is a great class to take if you have some previous exposure to Spanish.  Even if you don't believe you know a lot of Spanish, there is a nice review at the beginning of the course to allow you to catch up.  The book and online materials are great resources to practice the topics discussed in class.  All in all, I strongly recommend this class to anyone considering taking a foreign language.
The professor is awesome!
If you took Spanish for a couple years in high school, you will do well in this class.
This is a really good intro course for those who did not take AP Spanish, but took several years of Spanish in high school.
Spanish Ab is a fun class. By the end of the semester you know all of your classmates and enjoy your time together.
Good class, learn a lot.
Nothing to worry about.  Easiest class of my first semester. Also one of my favorite.
Very good course.
This is such a fun course because it requires all to participate.  Classes become close and you feel comfortable talking in another language.
enjoyable learning experience
This class is very manageable, with a fair workload and tests. I would say that this class was easier than my Spanish 5 class in high school. I really enjoyed this class especially because I had a great TF, Prisca is the best.
It was fun!  I felt comfortable speaking with classmates, and it was not a lot of work.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!
Here is what you need to do to be successful: (1) Participate actively in class (during discussion) (2) Talk to you TF about any problems that you are having understanding the grammar (3) Don't wait till the last minute to do the online QUIA activities. They take a long time, so be prepared for at least 2 hours for each chapter.
Good course that teaches you a lot about basic spanish. I can definitely read and talk a lot better than I could before in AB. Work is reasonable, tough at times, but I feel satisfied in taking the course.
I would tell them to take it if they have taken spanish before, but still want to take a spanish class.
This class is well-structured and gives a nice foundation in basic Spanish grammar and vocabulary. It provides a lot of practice with verb tenses. Loved the teachers! Definitely recommend!
This is a good intro course to Spanish but moves very quickly.  The work you do will be almost 100% grammar-based and keeping up with the new lessons can be somewhat difficult given the amount of time we have for each lesson.  On the whole, the course is a good intro to spanish, but I certainly wouldn't take it as an elective unless you really want to learn the language.  PRISCA is the best ever.  Try to get her if she is teaching the course.  Honestly.
Put time and effort into this class or you will not get much out of it.
This class is not very difficult, but it will tech you a lot!
Learning is mostly from speaking so push yourself to speak.
This class isn't high school Spanish.  It certainly gives you the tools you need to continue advancing your understanding of the language.
If you like spanish take the course.
I strongly recommend this course as, for moderately good Spanish-speakers, it is a nice compromise between the very basic Spanish Aa and the somewhat advanced Spanish C.
Very fun
If you are trying to get a general but broad knowledge of Espaol, then this is the class to take.
The tests are very straightforward. Make sure you get a good section teacher! They make all the difference!
Try not to get the 9 am class...speaking spanish in the afternoon is much better...and pay attention in class, because if you have to take a spanish class, at least learn something!
This class was great.  Professor Moreno did not stress grades.  She genuinely wanted you to learn and gave you an A as long as you showed effort.
This class was very well organized. If you keep up with the assignments, you will definitely learn what you need to know. It does move quickly towards the end of the semester, so watch out for that.
It is difficult, but a good class overall.
it is fast paced but manageable
Yes.
Fairly easy class; stay on top of homework and make sure you just review the chapter before tests. Nothing too difficult and if you get a good section with interesting people like mine was, class is very enjoyable and fun.
Such a great class!!! I love Spanish so much, and this class was great to help build practical use and understanding.
If you haven't already met the language requirement, you're probably going to take this class at some point (if you are interested in spanish, obviously). For me, this was my lowest-stress class this past semester and was a great way to start foreign languages at Harvard; not too much homework was assigned, and the quizzes/exams were graded EXTREMELY fairly and generously. The relaxed atmosphere of the class makes it easier to transition into, especially if you're like me and not used to a class conducted entirely in spanish. If nothing else, you will understand spoken spanish slightly better at the course's end!
It's low-stress and fun! Take it. Also, Celeste is absolutely adorable and you'll envy her style.
This class is awesome! It's so much fun and will teach you a lot! Get Celeste as a TF!!!!!
Fun, easy, beginning Spanish course.
I recommend Prisca with enthusiasm, but I would definitely tell people who are not interested in languages who are only interested in satisfying the requirement to start in Aa, so that they do not have to go into C before they fulfill the requirement.
It is a fun class and not that much work.
I really enjoyed this class and it was one of my favorites this semester. There is a focus on speaking in class which was really useful.
Easy class...great way to fulfill your foreign lang. requirement
It's a great continuation of the language.
its great
It is a great course, with both depth and breadth of exposure to grammar and vocabulary.
This class was a much better experience than what I had in high school.
You will get out of this class as much as you are willing to put into it
Spanish AB is an easy and fun way to complete the foreign language requirement  Very little homework and easy assignments.. you really can't go wrong.
Improves Spanish skills
It's a really great class. You'll learn a lot and you'll enjoy it along the way.
This class is a good way to build a foundation in conversational Spanish and hopefully to study Spanish more in depth later.
Take this class! It will improve your speaking skills. The class is fun and stress free, and it is focused on learning. It made me enjoy learning Spanish.
Do the QUIA assignments it helps to keep you up to speed.
If you have never taken spanish and would rather take another language even though spanish would be more helpful, take the other language.
easy and fun class. pretty stress-free way to get your foreign language requirement out of the way.
The tests and quizzes are fairly easy and the course is not a lot of work. Although it was similar to a high school Spanish course, it moves a lot more quickly. For me, the course improved the speaking component the most.
This is a fun class that teaches you how to speak, write, and understand spanish. It may seem a little intimidating at first but it will become one of your favorite classes because it is not that difficult and you get to know people.
Section is really enjoyable
Not overly demanding if you have some background with Spanish, worst part was meeting four times a week
Try to get Prisca as your section leader!!! She's the best.
Very fun and good course.
It will be hard at first, but then you will get used to it and start understanding things a bit more
I would take this course instead of aa if you already know a little bit about spanish because it is not  a tough class and the professor is awesome. Also if you're considering C versus Ab, I would recommend taking Ab if you're a little unsure about C because again Eustolia is awesome and makes it worthwhile.
It's fun and helpful at the same time.
This was a good spanish class for those who already have taken some spanish.  Prisca is great!
I was a little hesitant about the language requirement, but I was pleasantly surprised with class. Despite not being very big on languages, I found the class for the most part manageable and interesting.
Enjoyable spanish class
Make sure you're somewhat comfortable with Spanish before taking this class. The grading was relatively easy, but you can still feel lost if you don't have the vocabulary and grammar background.
This class is amazing.
If you're enthusiastic about speaking Spanish, Spanish Ab is a lot of fun! Assignments are pretty standard and the workload isn't too bad. Also, Professor Yague is a really cool guy and his classes are pretty entertaining.
It's not too hard and pretty enjoyable!
This class requires regular work, but it's not very difficult and it's a lot of fun. You also cover a lot of material.
Go to office hours; your paper grades will be lower (Bs range) if you don't. The class is very fun and is one of the better learning experiences you'll have at Harvard, appreciate it as such but don't forget to do the work as well.
This is a very helpful class, which made me interested in visiting a Spanish speaking country.
Great class. If you've taken Spanish AA this is the next step. You'll learn spanish.
Fairly easy language class that won't take up too much of your time outside the four class meetings per week.
Take it!
take it if you're at all interest in Spanish!
Be ready to only speak in spanish
This is a very fun course . Come prepared to learn Spanish in an intensive and effective manner
shop for a good instructor
Lots of little assignments so be organized from the start. Your experience will depend on your TF. Mine was AMAZING! Expect this class to be harder than your second level/second year Spanish class in high school.
You learn a lot of Spanish, but at a comfortable pace.
If you're coming into this class directly from high school Spanish classes, chances are you'll have trouble with the fact that only Spanish is spoken in class for the first couple weeks (although that might have just been me). If you do experience these troubles, don't worry because you will start feeling more comfortable and understand more as long as you set yourself to learning vocabulary while the class reviews early on.
This class can be fun (if you have a good section leader). Just make sure to study before the quizzes and test.
Be prepared to speak and listen to Spanish all the time. You have to really apply your skills because I don't think my professor understood or spoke much English.
It's a solid way to improve your Spanish skills.
Practice speaking, even if it seems like you might mess up the grammar.
It is not a lot of work, Seor Groman is awesome, and he makes you have fun in class.
It's a great class.
The teachers are great and very helpful. You will become much better Spanish speaker in only a semester.
Fun, informative and a great way to learn a language.
This is an amazing class that gives a very good foundation in Spanish. I highly recommend taking the class. It has encouraged me to take more advanced Spanish classes.
This course is perfect for students that want to continue on with Spanish but feel that they need a brushing-up on some concepts and grammar.
I found it very fun and useful
This was an easy basic level spanish course. Winston is a great TF and kept the class interesting with a variety of interactive activities, including skits, games, and spanish songs.
A good class. Winston is hilarious and a really great guy. You will learn a lot of grammar and that's important as a foundation for learning more Spanish.
ONLY TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU ARE ACTUALLY INTERESTED IN LEARNING SPANISH. If you take it just to jerk off then you just waste everyone's time.
You learn *a lot* in this class about spoken Spanish and you cover a lot of tenses.
This is a great intro Spanish class.
It was a very fun and rewarding class
Find a TF you really like. My TF and my section made this class very enjoyable for me.
stay on top of your workbook
The language classes at Harvard are great, and Spanish is no exception.  The professors create a comfortable environment where students can learn the language.  The classes place an emphasis on conversation, so be ready to participate.
fun
This is a good intro Spanish class.  I took Spanish in high school but am muy malo a espanol and was fine.
the class is easy, not too much homework, just a short 1-page essay a week and then some online work every 2 or 3 weeks. class is laid-back and the quizzes and tests are never hard.
This class is challenging but enjoyable, and satisfying when you are able to have a conversation with other students in another language.
enjoy learning the language
Great class!
If you only have a basic background in Spanish and you feel as though you want to get a better foundation in the language, take this class. It isn't overwhelming, and you learn useful grammar. You also speak a lot in this class which helps to reinforce what you have learned to do on paper.
This course is great if you have a background in spanish. If you are a beginner trying to cheat the system and skip Aa, be prepared to spend some time memorizing conjugations and making flashcards.
This class is very laid-back. Do not take it if you looking for an intense immersion in a language and culture.
Spanish Ab is a great course: due to its small, sectional nature you will leave with a greater understanding of Spanish. Certain components of the language - like the use of preterite vs imperfect, or subjunctive - will perplex you no end. At those times you just have to try your luck until it makes sense.
Make sure to use the book. It's very helpful
It was one of my favorite classes this semester and started off my freshman fall well.
This depends a lot on which section you get into. Mine was pretty bad. I've heard positive reviews from other sections, though, so -- eh. Shop it, at least.
Take this class!  It is a great way to improve your spanish speaking and writing skills.
This class can be very entertaining depending on your section leader. I enjoyed Spanish this semester!
The backgrounds of students in this class varies a lot.  Some students come in with much, much more experience than others, which makes the class much harder.
Take this course! And make sure you get into Celeste's section! The others might be fun too, but I dunno.
Winston is such an awesome TF - make sure you get him because he will make it so exciting! The quizzes are also pretty easy. Great for learning the foundations of the language.
This is really a great course. It's taught in all Spanish and I was a bit nervous at first about an all-Spanish taught course, but it truly helped to facilitate my understanding of the language.
I absolutely love this class.  I am a math/science person but this class was easy and fun.  It allowed me to get a lot better with the material and it really engaged me.  This was my favorite class by far.
This class is great. I would definitely recommend this course. It is fun as well as informative. You will learn a great deal about the Spanish culture and language.
The course can be very exciting but also requires a full committment to learning the language
Great class and you will make a lot of progress in just one semester but be prepared to have a constant work to do.
It is a great introductory!
I really enjoyed this course.  I felt that I learned a lot and really improved in terms of reading comprehension and writing skills.  Also, my instructor was wonderful!
If you have even a fairly poor understanding of spanish, go to Ab, not Aa (as long as you are willing to learn a lot the first few weeks)
This is a suitable option if you are embarking on the first semester of the language requirement and have had previous Spanish experience.
It's a good Spanish class if you take it with the proper prerequisites.
This course is amazing. I learned a lot of Spanish, and my class became quite close through the semester!
take it
This class is interactive and fun.
Probably a good way to do a language requirement but is a surprisingly large time commitment of work that clearly just doesn't need to be done.
You need to keep on top of the work, but this class will help to consolidate your Spanish. By the end of the term you will be able to communicate in, and read, basic Spanish. You will be familiar with all the major grammatical forms.
The more vocabulary you know, the better
Make sure you've taken Spanish before. Otherwise, just continue with a language you have some knowledge of. This is NOT a true introductory course you go far too quickly to understand the grammar fully.
It requires a large time commitment.
Grading is not standardized across sections. Some grade more easily than others.
This class is great!
Be ready to learn the language on your own when the teacher does not explain well.  Depends on your teacher.
The course is low pressure and fun
wonderful introduction to spanish; a very engaging class centered around group discussion
Beginners spanish at Harvard is a very painless and fun way to get you foreign language requirement out of the way. It is also a fun and engaging course to lighten the load of heavier classes in your schedule.
In order to succeed in this class, it is necessary to keep up with the work and study on a regular basis. Each lesson and week builds on previous weeks much more than in Spanish Aa.
This was a very useful and fun introduction to Spanish language.
Great course, but a lot of constant work.
jorge is bomb/take it in the afternoon but not 2pm because that is too late to be using your brain
Great class, foreign language department does a good job of making their classes interesting and almost feel like high school classes by meeting everyday and providing easy assignments
it entirely depends on your section leader. its like Russian roulette. you might get a good section leader and survive, or you get someone who has never taught before and who is on a power trip and gives you a bad grade because she is incompetent.
Studying is not an option.
This course was really fun and we covered a remarkable amount of information.
Go to class every day. Participate every day. This is the only way to learn a language.
It's a great/fun class! Professor Parra was very personable/sensible and provides a great environment for learning Spanish.
Good class to fulfill language requirement
That if you get the right TF it can be a really fun class.
This course is great preparation for those enthusiasts about Spanish and culture!
Its a lot of busy work, and you meet 4x a week.
Boring, but great TF's and gets the job done.
Class will be fun.
This is pointless if you want to actually learn Spanish. Your time would be better spent studying on your own for an hour a day using rosetta.
This strength of this class lies purely in who your TF is. Ask around and find the best one.
Lot of work and gets annoyinh.
The class really depends on your TF, if you dont fall in love right away, switch to another TF asap
This is a great course that you will actually enjoy going to. Carlos (one of the TFs) is amazing and is extremely helpful. Great class!
It's not difficult.
As with all foreign languages, expect to be placed with students who should be in classes several levels higher. Spanish especially has this problem as many students took it in high school.  This is frustrating, but still a worthwhile class.
not hard, but lots of small assignments
It moves a lot quicker than a typical high-school spanish course.
Just keep up with the material!
This class is a great introductory class for freshman.
Buy a different book to teach you grammar and make sure it includes a sufficient dictionary.
Your experience and learning in this course depends on your section leader.
This class is great to develop Spanish but is not very intensive.
n/a
It really depends on the TF.  Mine was GREAT!  He was very knowledgable and made class interesting.
Take it if you're not confident about Spanish intermediate.
It is a fun class that does not require too much outside studying.
fun and not extremely hard!!
Seniors, it gets really frustrating having constant work. Think about what type of senior spring you want to have - if you don't mind needing to study for a quiz and complete online workbook assignments every week, then go for it. I'm really glad I'm familiar with Spanish after years of Latin and Italian, but the assignments were just annoying.
"very easy" does not equal "no work" it means "little work". important distinction.
Keep up with the work
Be sure to do the online homework
Although you may not need to know every single concept covered in this class in order to do well in it, I would recommend pushing yourself beyond this course's requirements so as to really learn introductory Spanish.
it is a manageable work load and fun
It makes learning spanish less intimidating.
Helps very much in learning the language.
its a great class.
I think that Spanish Ab is a perfect elective. You learn a lot with a minimal time commitment.
Great manageable course for Spanish beginners.
it's a good class particularly if you're looking to refresh yourself on the language. lots of speaking activities and the book isn't used all that much. i've heard the experience depends a lot on your TF as well.
Vaguely interesting, very easy, and not too fastpaced. Plus you actually learn things. Not a bad way to fulfill your language requirement.
Great course to fulfill requirement
This class allows you to really advance your verbal and writing skills without requiring hardly any work outside of class. Definitely worth your time!
It's more work than Spanish Aa - the weekly reading responses took more time than I expected - but is a good class for strengthening language skills.
choose Johanna Liander. She's the most awesome professor
This class was one of the best I've taken freshman year.  I don't know about the other teachers, but Teresa Gomez was FANTASTIC and I can't wait to continue on to the next level of Spanish in the fall.
It's a great way to get a small-class experience with an enthusiastic professor- I actually enjoyed going to class.
If you are interested in Spanish at all, take this class.  You learn a lot and it's enjoyable.  Winston es el Che.
A great class to learn Spanish!
its quite a fun small class where there are times with no work and then times with a decent amount, so be prepared for those time
This Spanish class is a lot of fun, and I learn the language very quickly.
Great class that you will definitely enjoy
This course moves fast, but the material is not overwhelming.  Many people should be in a higher level class, so for the true beginners, it is somewhat unfair.
this is a good language class that is not too difficult
This class can be fun, and the work load is not difficult to manage.
You learn a lot and the TF's are amazing in helping you learn Spanish!
Make sure you find Celeste as your TF! She is really fun and genuinely cares that you have an understanding of basic Spanish.
Level of difficulty and pace of class are great - very manageable.  You will learn a good amount!
great course, even if you took Spanish in high school, this class will consolidate what you learned, it will make things clearer (e.g. preterite vs imperfect, por para, subjuctive, etc.
Very fun!  You not only learn about the language, but about the Hispanic/Spanish culture and life.
This class, although it is required, should help with your grades in other classes.
If you actually care about continuing or beginning your study of Spanish, then it's a great class.
The more work you put into it, the more you will learn.
It's surprising how many people in this class have taken Spanish before, and the remainder seem to have taken French. It's easy to just get by in the class with the minimum work required.
It isn't too much work and it is very good for basic grammar rules and getting into all the tenses.
Early morning sections are painful but are great in retrospective!
A solid introduction to Spanish. Not too much work, and certainly worthwhile.
It is a great way to learn spanish and going to class is enjoyable.
This class is so much fun. My TF was great. The in class activities are really enjoyable, and the assignments do a great job of teaching the material without being burdensome.
Make sure you really want to learn Spanish, otherwise you will wish you had taken a different language.
About the same level of difficulty as Spanish Aa, but make sure you have a good grasp on it!
Winston is the man. He is by far the best TF and his teaching methods are very conducive to learning spanish.
A good way to learn Spanish.
Spanish Ab provided me with an excellent introductory grasp on Spanish with all the necessary basics of grammar.
It fast paced so I recommend that you keep on top of your work before it begins to pile because you forget that you have at least 3 other classes to study for.
The class is structured well, and the readings are really good, but how much you enjoy this class depends significantly on your TF, and mine (Nilma, who was awesome!) is sadly not teaching this class anymore. You will be surprisingly good at Spanish by the end of this class.
Best class to be able to speak enough spanish to travel around
I was always engaged in class and the conversations were fun.
This class is enjoyable and not incredibly difficult.
Great class whether you are doing it to fulfill the requirement or to go on to get a citation.  It is very fun!
Study your vocab and keep on top of your studying. Do the online homework early.
You'll learn a lot of grammar in a short time and know it by the final exam, however, since all goes really quick, what you learn doesn't go into your "system." It'll be important that you have time after the course to keep it up.
The book is easy to understand, and the professor is available for help.
It is very comprehensive.
It teaches you a lot of Spanish and the workload is manageable. Highly recommend if you want to learn more Spanish!
Take Spanish Ab!!!!  It is so much fun, it's a great break from your boring lecture classes, and as long as you have a good attitude about it, you will learn a lot.  It's more important to be engaged in class than do work outside of it and it's a fun way to meet new people and learn a language.  You really do learn all the grammar rules and some useful vocab.  The TFs are all so dedicated and enthusiastic.
You've gotta take Spanish anyway.
I really enjoyed it.  It's not very difficult and it's set up for you to succeed.  Your Spanish also improves a lot.
You'll be amazed at how much you learn over the semester.
Although the A series is intro spanish, most people have taken spanish in high school and if you have not, you probably will be behind from the beginning.
Most language classes at Harvard are among the best academic experiences you'll have here.  Spanish Ab is no exception.  The small class sizes and the usually gifted and dedicated instructors really make the class.  It's also not particularly difficult, even if (like me), you had never taken Spanish before Aa.
Spanish classes are a good language requirement- its a useful language, and the set up of the class is enjoyable and its rewarding to see your improvement over the semester
Winston is a seriously great TF, full of constant encouragement, patience, understanding and enthusiasm. The course is great as is and you get as much as you put in, but the TF can make all the difference. The course is more time-consuming than Spanish Aa but still fun and worthwhile.
The students that are in the class with you can really make or break it.  If you have a fun group of people to speak with, then the class will be amazing.  But if the people are dull, then the class won't be as fun.
Be prepared for a fast moving class and do not fall behind.
This class is very helpful for people who are just beginning to learn a new language.
Spanish!!
it's a lot of fun and very useful, but in order to get the most out of it be prepared to put in a decent amount of effort.
Great, fun class with very low stress.
Take this class if you want to learn a lot in a really refreshing class setting (especially for you science concentrators in 100+ person classes!)
That this is a very interesting class that you get to actively participate in and thus feels as if you learn the material way more.
Have fun with it and be sure to practice, both written and spoken Spanish. Make use of the tutoring center!
All Spanish courses are a great way to enhance your skills
It is very interactive, fun, and informative
This class is great, so practical, I'm already spending a summer abroad in a Spanish-speaking country.
It's a difficult class, but by the end you feel really good about how much Spanish you know.
The foreign language classes at Harvard will be your most enjoyable courses.
Excellent class. I used it to brush up on my Spanish so I can go abroad!
How well you do in this class will largely depend on which teacher teaches your Spanish class.  Supposedly there is some uniform grading method that is used in this course, as in all large language courses, but the grading discrepancies in the Spanish department are atrocious.  Some teachers will tell their students the questions to the following morning's test; others will just provide their students with general topics.  Some teachers are extremely picky graders; others are overly generous.  It's a great class in the sense that you will definitely learn more Spanish -- there's no doubting that.  But when you're talking with your friends who are also taking it but in different sections, be prepared to get really angry that their teacher almost throws points at them -- or feel super guilty that you're doing better than them in the class because your teacher does everything but gives you the answers to the tests before you take them.
This class is really beneficial to those who want to master the language.
Any language course at Harvard is going to be outstanding.
It's a solid introductory language course, so if you are considering Spanish, it is taught pretty well and is worthwhile here.
The course is a great way to gain an understanding of a relevant foreign language.
I think it's important to have a good section leader that you are comfortable with...shop around. Also, don't be afraid to make mistakes in class...be vocal.
Fairly easy class as long as you do your work and take it seriously
Do the work that is assigned daily to stay sharp.
Be prepared its not very easy if you have no previous experience with spanish.
It was a standard introductory language course. If you have fun people in your class it helps a lot. Not too hard.
Spanish is awesome! You will definitely be able to hold a decent conversation after taking this course!
Its fun, its easy, take it.
David Yague Gonzalez is the instructor to get! For sure try to get him. The best instructor by far!
Its awesome
Be prepared to take a course that may not necessarily be tailored to beginning spanish speakers.
Be prepared to spent hours of work on pointless assignments.
As long as you take the class seriously, you will be conversational in Spanish by the end of the semester.
This course will definitely improve your Spanish.
If you have already taken some Spanish this is a great class to take, otherwise the rest of the class will be very far ahead of you.
If you have just taken Spanish AA, I would definitely recommend this course! The class transitions from AA fairly smoothly and it definitely helps you become more comfortable with the future tense, preterite, and imperfect.
Pacing of assignments is often hard to understand. Written exercises, for example, were almost always assigned the day before a quiz, for completion the next day, which seemed like an unnecessary hassle.
This class along with Spanish Aa was great for gaining a basic understanding of the Spanish language.
This course is very easy and a great way to fulfill the language, but the textbook is not worth. Do not take it unless they change the textbook, you are getting scammed.
A lot of the course is dependent on your instructor.  The class moves extremely fast and most students seem to have a lot of experience in Spanish.
If you've only had Spanish Ab then that should be sufficient for the class - you'll just have to work harder initially to get the gist of conversation and participate. The instructors are also quite nice.
You can't take this course unless you have had a solid Spanish background. It moves way too fast and is way to hard to be an "intro course".
Although this course doesn't teach everything, the core to spanish speaking is taught here.
This is a basic language course that is good for fulfilling the language requirement. All of the assignments and tests are straightforward; as long as you pay attention in class and do all of the online activities, you'll be fine.
Antonio is an awesome instructor, very funny (muy cmico).
This was my most rewarding class I took during this school year. David is an amazing instructor, and all his classes are a lot of fun, interesting and very useful. You engage in many discussions with your peers on various topics, learn tons of new vocabulary and at the end of the semester realize how MUCH you have actually learned. The pace of the class differs a lot from Spanish Aa, since it is much more intense but as long as you have passion for Spanish, you will enjoy this class a lot!
You must know some spanish before taking this class.
Spanish is very boring at Harvard, but probably the easiest language requirement especially if you have a experience in the language. The class goes at a very fast pace, so for true beginners it would be much more difficult.
If you have a facility with language, take this course. You will, I have no doubt, enjoy your experience. The TFs are great, and the classes can be fun, but if you struggle with language, this may not be for you. It is more look that is advertised and not doing as well as you like can be disheartening.
Great class. David is great!
It's a great class and Luis is the BEST!!!!
Take advantage of this course. A second language is very impressive and helpful.
An effective Spanish class, but maybe not something you can only get at Harvard. Spanish AB is definitely a jump up from AA.
The intensity of the course might depend strongly on your TF. And, given its structure with everyday assignments, do not take it as an easy course. The material is not complicated indeed, yet the amount of work might get tiring if you combine it with other hard courses.
Spanish Ab is an awesome class! Aa really prepared me and I was lucky to have the same TF (David) for both semesters, which was great because he's the best!
Take advantage of the tutoring center and your TF's office hours.  I found them both tremendously helpful.
easy gpa boost
Spanish Ab is a very worthwhile and enjoyable course that builds students knowledge of Spanish vocabulary and grammar. Be aware that the class requires a significant time commitment to do well and that your experience will depend on your section leader.
Be ready for a lot of kids with spanish background.
It's a great class to learn about Spanish culture and to learn to speak Spanish more fluently.
Spanish Ab is wonderfully run. Lovely, engaging, fun, and educational. A breath of cool air.
Which TA you have matters strongly. I switched TAs in the beginning and likely would have dropped had I not been able to.
Make sure you find the time to practice the language outside of class. Try going to office hours, tutoring sessions, the Spanish table in the dining halls. Whatever you can do.
This class is in no way stressful and very enjoyable.
This is a great class, and all of the TF's are excellent. It isn't too hard, and you'll definitely come away with a good grasp of basic Spanish.
Good class for beginners.
Section: where you learn, you better have a good TFBook/Homework: good, most of the time easy, everything comes from the bookQuizzes: study the book unit and you'll be solidPapers: sound intimidating, but they're really easy just a hassleExams: decently challenging, study well and you'll be solid
Try to have Profesor David as your TF
Great class
It's a good way to finish your language requirement. Do not take it at 9 am because speaking and participation is difficult at this time for the entire class.
If you need to fill the language requirement, then this class isn't too bad. But don't take this class for fun.
If you've taken spanish previously, but aren't confident in your abilities definitely take this class.
It is easy but the teachers are good and enthusiastic and you learn a lot.
Glenda is a great teacher but the class is mostly spoken in Spanish and can make one feel lost at times.
This class is a great class but I think it is helpful to have a little bit of a background in this area.  Otherwise it can be a little overwhelming.
It can be fun.
Speak a lot and learn the grammar well.
All in all a relaxing and enjoyable class, although it does take a good amount of time to continue keeping everything straight as you learn more and more tenses, grammatical constructs, and vocabulary. You get what you put in, so take advantage of the opportunities you have!
This class takes a surprising amount of time and if Spanish isn't your thing can be kind of hard. It takes a lot of practice and memorization.
It is not hard if you take the time and work hard.
fun and engaging
Make use of the online assignments (they come with unit practice tests).  Also, you really do benefit from speaking as often as possible and asking tons of questions (don't worry, the entire class will probably make tons of silly mistakes at some point.
Easy course and workload but very useful for developing writing and speaking skills
The class is a fun and effective way to help you learn the basics of the language.  You will see a noticeable improvement in your ability to understand and speak Spanish if you give effort.
It is a very fun class and a great opportunity to learn about a language that is used in many countries.
Excellent follow-up to Spanish Aa, but it definitely gets challenging near the end with grammar.
have fun
Spanish Ab is good for learning to speak and read the language.  Forces you to learn at a quick pace and work on your Spanish 4 days a week.
Just push through it.
Make sure to focus on the writing aspect of the class, it will help you on tests.
Very good crash course through beginner spanish. I feel pretty good about my spanish skills now.
Sucks
Great class! Take it.
It's a lot of fun, and not a ton of work if you're involved with class every day.
I recommend the fellow student take this course, just NOT with this instructor. I definitely felt I learned nothing from her. All I felt for the entire semester is I learned by myself before quiz and use the quiz as a tool to see how much I understand!
Very fun and easy going class with a very good teacher.
I would only recommend this class if you have a strong background in Spanish or if you have just taken Spanish Aa.
Fun class! You'll learn a lot, although you may forget some too. Not too heavy a workload, but lots of content so you are exposed to a lot of Spanish which is awesome. By the end I felt like I should have been able to speak more than I was able to, maybe because we don't get as much practice speaking as we do reading.
This class is way more difficult than most other language intro classes. Weekly outside assignments and a lot of material is covered. Spanish at Harvard is HARD.
Take this course, but make sure you ask about the TF before you enroll.
Make sure you get a good TF. It's better to have a TF  who is tough than one who is super easy, because you won't learn anything that way and it will be a waste of a class.
It's fun, but you don't learn THAT much.
Make sure you get David
Look out for taking a spoken language if you have a speech impediment.  The instructors and classes really are not very prepared for this.  I certainly lost a few points here and there.
It's a fun course! Having a solid background in beginner Spanish (e.g. Spanish Aa) will be important to fully enjoy the class.
David Yague is an awesome teacher.
This course is good for basic Spanish but can get frustrating occasionally because it is every day and I had it at 9am so I was not always at my best.
Take the time to learn each theme and tense conjugation.
It is a great class that is truly a lot of fun and will help you learn a great deal about the Spanish language.
Try to speak Spanish outside of class
All things considered, it was a fun way to learn spanish, probably the class I enjoyed attending the most.
It is awesome. It's really fun, and being able to learn another language is so useful if you ever want to travel.
This is a great into spanish class if one is looking to start learning about the language.
This course is relatively easy if you've already taken spanish. If not, though, it may be difficult. Class every day is kind of a pain in the ass, so you may want to take it in the morning if you want to get it over with or later in the afternoon if you want to sleep in every day.
This class is pretty easy, but I learned a lot. I had taken Spanish for a few years in high school but I felt like I learned more in this one semester than I did in years of Spanish in high school.
You will learn all the Spanish you need to know to understand and communicate in Spanish at a basic level.
Good class!  Fun.
La clase es muy interesante.
Only take this if you have to.
You will have a great time in this course
Great intro language class with very broad applications
The Spanish classes here are amazing! You will learn tons of Spanish and it will be kind of fun too.
Pretty easy, not a lot of work but you learn a good amount.
I learned so much Spanish! I'm reading books and watching TV is Spanish now, because even though I can't understand everything, I have the autonomy to pursue more advanced material because this class gave me a solid foundation.
Lots of fun to just get up and shoot the shit in a foreign language every day -- minimal outside work (no assignment requires more than an hour of work outside of class, and most things can be done in less than 20 min. Regardless, you learn a lot quickly.
If you're interested at all in Spanish, you should absolutely take it!  It's very low-stress and Mariluz is such a wonderful and dedicated teacher, and you learn a lot if you're willing to put in the effort.
Mariluz is an excellent teacher.
It all depends on the teacher you get. Some are better than others, and you have almost no control over that.
This course is a great example of great teaching and an enjoyable experience.
This is a pretty easy class, if you really want to learn Spanish, you'll need to do additional work on your own outside of class. Though I have a basic understanding of the language, I don't feel that I could go to a Spanish speaking country and comfortably converse.
A good class that will leave you with a basic understanding of the Spanish language.
Only take this class if you are serious about learning spanish. If you really want to learn spanish and have a knack for languages then go ahead.  I am not a linguist and just wanted to get my language requirement out of the way... I should have picked an easier, if more off-beat, language to take. (I hear swahili is pretty easy.)
The class moves fast, and you do need to do the work and study to do well in the class; you can't just call this one in. That said, it is very effective in teaching a lot of Spanish in a short time, and the sections are actually pretty enjoyable once everyone gets to know each other.
This is an excellent class - not very difficult, lots of fun, and I learned a lot
It was an easy course
good class to develop your basic spanish
Take this course.
A good try.
Good class
Mariluz is the best! Tough grader, but really cool and patient. Take the class, talk in class, you won't regret it.
Spanish is a useful langauge and the intro courses for it are easy fun and effective.
Take if you can have Luis as your teacher!
It's a great class if you actually want to learn Spanish or need to fulfill your foreign language rec.
Good Spanish class. A bit quick, but you learn a lot.
It is a fast-paced course that you have to work to keep up with, but the amount of Spanish Language skills you learn is potentially large.
Super duper awesome class
This class continues teaching you the basics of Spanish. It gives you a great foundation, but the way to really get good is to practice.
Spanish is fun!
If taken with Mariluz, it's great because she is so nice and a great teacher.  My Spanish is definitely better than before and I hope it continues to improve. There is a heavy emphasis on writing and reading aloud and the grammar gets a lot more intense than in Spanish AA.
you must be willing to work regularly to keep up with the grammar. It is really not possible to cram and try to learn all the grammar and the vocabularly words the night before the quiz and expect to do well.
Very straightforward, you will learn basics of Spanish. If you make a solid effort in this class you will leave with the skills necessary to not sound like a total gringo when conversing with a native speaker. If you do not make a solid effort you will still probably do okay.
Its a relatively painless way to fulfill the language requirement.
The course is really easy, especially with Maria, she is a great TF.
That it will be a release from Harvard stress, you will make soo many friends
It will test your writing skills, and throughout the year, your ability to write in Spanish will greatly improve.
I had a really good time.
I would encourage future students to take this course because it greatly helped me become a better Spanish speaker.  I felt that the assignments and exams were stimulating, and I felt that there were great section dynamics.
It's pretty easy.
The course is very doable if a minimal amount of time is put in to study spanish.
try to work on oral component outside of class
The class is graded somewhat hard and active participation will cause mistakes to be made, but this is a valuable part of the course
It is a great way to improve your Spanish skills.
This is a good class for those who have some limited experience with Spanish, but are now rusty. It is an excellent way to re-introduce yourself to the language.
I found that my knowledge of Spanish greatly increased while being in this class. It was my favorite class this semester and helped me feel a lot more comfortable with speaking. I plan to continue my study of spanish because of this class.
If you do not have a knack for languages do not expect that this rapid class, that glides over many crucial topics of grammar in minutes, that thinks by simply speaking for four hours of week means immediate improvement, that essentially requires attendance since after three cuts you are brought up to the course head, to provide you any relief with your plight with foreign languages. Try ebo or something other language that does not expect you to pay a ridiculous amount of money for all of its minimally useful components and attend fruitless classes where someone just asks you to recite things incessantly like a dummy.
I only took this course to fill a requirement, and although I disliked the course, I very much liked the teacher.
If you want a fun class and want to have fun learning as well, take this class.
There is a lot of online work.
It's a good introductory class for students with who have studied spanish before. It has both grammer and readings.
Elena Maestre is awesome.
I was really surprised by the quality of language classes here at Harvard.
I learned more Spanish in this class than I learned in three years in high school, and I had fun while I was learning!
This was one of my favorite classes.  It was fun and very interactive.
i would definitely recommend it if you have to fulfill the language requirement
This class was fun and interactive. It was a nice class to have since my other classes require much more work and time.
It's a great way to learn the basics of Spanish.
She is a great teacher and it's useful to take to meet the language requirement
I would like to tell them that if you have had the right background, it is generally an easy course.
It is a nice introduction to spanish
Very thorough way to learn a language.
They should not underestimate the Centro component.
very fun and interesting
Make sure you have Elena!
Rebeca is a  great teacher.
Don't take a morning section; bare in mind that the course meets 4 days a week. Keep an open mind and be willing to make many mistakes.
It was a very good class. The workload was fairly light but it still allowed you to practice your spanish at home. Sometimes the work would come in waves, but the class was very managable.
Centro sucks. Don't take it.
This class has been my best experience with learning Spanish. There is a lot of conversation in class and interaction with other students. There is absolutely no pressure to have perfect grammar because we are all learning. I often leave the class still thinking in Spanish! This has definitely been my favorite class this semester.
It requires plenty of time and things get tedious, but you learn the language well.
It is not very much work, and you will learn to speak Spanish.
If you feel you are not proficient, the emphasis on speaking in class will bring you up to speed
This is the one class I feel like I'm still in high school due to the small class size and daily homework as well as daily attendance. It's comforting as a freshman adjusting to college.
This class is fun and easy.
If you're considering Ab, take a good look at Spanish C - you will probably do fine and will learn much more Spanish.
The teachers are very easy and the class is fun.
It's a great course for your first semester of college. You meet new people and work in an enthusiastic learning environment. There is a big emphasis on learning without the stress of problem sets or large analytical papers.
Don't underestimate Centro for its irritation.
A person will get more out of it depending on whether they hold themselves accountable.
I would like to tell future students to not become discouraged at the beginning of the semester.  The work load is a bit heavy but if you complete all of the required work to your fullest ability, your Spanish will improve greatly.
I would tell them that this is a great class if you have some previous experience with Spanish.  It is somewhat fun and not a huge challenge.
If at all possible, shop the different sections. I know a lot of people who absolutely hated their section and didn't learn much, mostly because of their section leader. Everyone in my class however, loved it. Its so vital to have an interesting section leader that it really makes or breaks the class.
It's not too time consuming but relatively rewarding.
The course moves quickly and you must work on your Centro well in advance.
This class allowed me to enjoy spanish again.  I hated it in high school but this class makes it enjoyable and interesting.
I would tell them that, if you are willing to put in several hours a week, this course will improve their Spanish and will be an enjoyable way to fulfill a foreign language requirement.
This class is the best Spanish class I have ever taken! I was in great need of this type of Spanish instruction, and I am so happy I ended up in second-semester Spanish rather than a higher level.  This was just where I needed to be.
Its a very good class. It is well taught
Even if you are being forced to take it to fulfill the requirement, it is not that bad and can be somewhat enjoyable.
Stay in the class you test into regardless of your actual years of experience.  The placement test is there for a reason and we should use it and be in the class you should.
It is a good class to complete the language requirements, but if one had these requirements completed, I would recommend against taking it.
Good course, but don't expect to come out of the course fluent - one has to put in more time...
Make sure to keep up with the work and study the short stories.
I would tell them that if they study and try hard then they should not worry about the class
It's an excellent introduction to Spanish, a good course with none of the anonymity of a large lecture hall.  Coming in I was convinced that I would satisfy the requirement and never look at a foreign language again, but now I'm seriously considering continuing on and maybe getting a citation.
Make sure you know spanish to some degree.
definitely take this course if you want to learn spanish while having fun and getting to know your classmates
This class--like, I'm told, all other language classes at Harvard--is at a far faster pace. But if you're like me, so frustrated from years of review at the high school level, then you shouldn't have too hard a time keeping up.
This class moves very fast so if you are unfamiliar with spanish you will find yourself learning a lot of material in a short time. This class is also a good review of all the grammar and vocabulary you would have learned in about three years of high school spanish so I've you've had that or more you should consider an upper level spanish class.
This class was great in that it helped me to review spanish I had forgotten and learn the tenses more completely than I had known them before. I would recommend it to anyone with some spanish experience. The work wasn't too extensive and the assignments were interesting.
I took this course after having taken 7 years of Spanish in middle school and high school, because I assumed that I didn't remember any Spanish. That was a mistake - the course was so easy it was boring.
This class is very helpful in getting you more comfortable with speaking, listening, and reading spanish.  You learn a variety of different tenses.  I had a lot of fun with this class, and the variety of mediums used to learn and emphasis on conversation in the classroom made it interesting to study the language.  At first I was intimidated to have a teacher only speak spanish in the classroom, but after a few weeks, I was comfortable with it.  However, I would say that I did not leave the class fluent in spanish.
It is a very fun class and fulfills a requirement
Spanish Ab is a really great class, you'll learn alot, probably enough to test out of Spanish by the end of the semester
Overall this is a fun course that you will enjoy taking.
This class was a great experience that thoroughly prepared me to interact with my Spanish-speaking friends, not only in speaking Spanish, but in some cultural aspects also.
The teachers are absolutely amazing and enthusiastic about teaching. They make this course. They are very chill and make the learning process much better.
much faster-paced and more difficult than high school spanish
Spanish is becoming more and more prominent in our society and you only have everything to gain by learning this language first and foremost. Seriously consider this course for it really engages you with the language and culture.
Great class.  YOu will learn so much spanish in one semester you will be thinking spanish in your dreams!!!
The class is not particularly difficult; rather, it was helpful in improving in the language of Spanish.
It's a solid introductory Spanish class.
Don't hesitate to ask questions on concepts that you don't understand very well.
Very good for those who want to learn spanish
This class is great. It helps you broaden your horizons of foreign language and really helps you become more fluent in the language as well. It is also a really fun class that encourages participation.
Make sure that you have a firm grounding in spanish
great class, and a lot of fun!
It's probably the most fun you will have in a class at Harvard
My listening comprehension improved greatly.
Professora Teresa was excellent. She made learning Spanish enjoyable. This is very similar to a high school class. You have homework assignments almost every day and quizes once a week. It's not difficult, but sometimes it is time consuming. The course moves very quickly, but it is not overwhelming.
wow we covered a LOT of material really quickly, but it doesn't feel too rushed; I would definitely recommend!!!
Spanish is really fun! You should definitely take it!
Learn how to efficiently skip through Centro early. It'll pay off when you have more time to actually study afterwards.
Want to learn a useful language in a fun, laid-back environment? Spanish Ab is for you!
great to learn the language or to refresh what you already know
Class is great in learning spanish.I learned a lot.
For anyone who has an introductory level knowledge of Spanish but who has forgotten much of it. It moves at a much faster pace than Aa. I would highly recommend it; I always had a great time in class and the work is pretty minimal.
this class does a great job at building on basic levels of spanish and is well paced and easy to understand.
picks up the farther you get into the course
This course is a much better exposure to the Spanish Language- the type of challenge that most wanted in High School level Spanish.
Lots of busywork, but a pretty easy class regardless.
I really enjoyed this course because it provided a great environment for me to expand my basic knowledge of the class, prepare to learn more abstract concepts, and become involved in the world of Spanish literature and essay composition.  Immersion in the language during class makes the knowledge easier to retain, and the assignments and quizzes are of moderate difficulty.  Students will reap as many benefits from this course as the effort and time with which they approach it.
Put in a good amount of time outside of class, it's easy to underestimate the time it takes to do the work and to think the majority of learning is in class. If you want to learn the language you'll have to do more speaking then you get the chance to do in class and verb form and grammar only really gets reinforced in class if you've already studied on your own beforehand.
It's a very interesting class and I learned a lot. But be prepared to do homework everyday!
Watch out with Centro, the assignments will creep up on you. Don't forget about them!!
This is a good class to take if you are trying to take a language and not have to worry too much about. If you have taken spanish in high school, this is a great class to take and attempt to place out
Very good introduction course to spanish.
Spanish Ab gave me a better grasp of the language and provided me with an extensive review of the Spanish that I had learned in high school.
If you have a pretty good understanding of Spanish, this course will be very easy.
If you wish to study abroad in a Spanish-speaking country, as I plan, then you should definitely take this course because it hones your speaking ability as well as your comprehension of the language.
This class is awesome for learning Spanish effectively.  You will obviously need more courses beyond this to become an effective speaker, but it is great as an introductory course.
It's a pretty straightfoward spanish course, and a good freshman course to take.
Be prepared for alot of busy work but a great class for polishing your spanish skills.
The setup of this course is really great and I have learned a lot in Spanish in the past year. This course has improved all areas of my Spanish, although I still do consider speaking to be my weakest area. The class is really interesting and relaxed and it is great to get to know the other students and to interact with the teacher. The work is not hard, but there is a good deal of work to do every night to keep up.
If you do not remember any high school Spanish, take Aa.  Ab was a little bit more difficult than I expected it to be.
It's great.
Overall AB Spanish is a pretty fun class - lots of freshmen found it to be their favorite class. The TFs are generally really friendly and nice. They want to help you and get to know you - take advantage of this. All the instruction is in spanish - if you don't understand something make sure you immediately ask a question and never be afraid to speak up.  If you took three years of highschool Spanish and covered the subjunctive the class should be a piece of cake for you. This is really like a highschool class because you meet everyday and have hmk every day. Going in you should accept that meeting everyday is kind of annoying and understand that the Centro online hmk is not that valuable. Make sure you review the feedback your TF will give you on quizes and homework. Also, my section met from 2-3 everyday - would have much preferred to have had it earlier in the morning so i would have had a bigger block of time to study in the afternoon. Be excited to speak spanish - lot of native spanish speakers to converse with at Harvard!
Get Katie Auffinger as your TF!
It's Spanish 11, so if you need the requirement, you have to take it. The class is disjointed in terms of structure and purpose, but you have to take it.
Definitely very useful and you learn a lot.
Very painless way to get the lang req done.
This class is more difficult than one would expect from a beginner language class. Definitely take the time to do the online homework But the class is really well organized and can be fun with a good TF (like Rachel!).
you should study by speaking the language a little each day in order to best learn and understand it.
super easy depends on your TF
If you haven't taken Spanish before, you have to get through it. It can be annoying at times, but its not a hard class and you'll get through it. There is a big focus on grammar over culture, speaking, and listening, which can be tough, but I did learn a lot.
This class is fairly easy to succeed in as long as you're willing to put in the time and the effort.
This class is a lot more work than it seems. The material is covered so quickly you need to do work for the class basically every day. It all depends on your TF. It's going to be fine if you put the work into it, but having a great TF can significantly shorten the amount of work per week.
Grades seem to be given fairly generously at the end of the semester, but this class will not teach you Spanish. Your experience will depend entirely upon your TF (try them all during shopping week before committing), but the overall structure of the course is terrible and you will not emerge being able to speak any Spanish.
This course is fair, informative, and mostly enjoyable. I learned a lot of Spanish very quickly and after only one year I can read and watch movies in Spanish. Wilnomy is awesome and really made class fun!
You do have to put work into this class, but if you do then it is easy to do well.
Great class if you get the right TA
this class' structure is awful. The course head has NO idea what goes on in section and so TFs ultimately have free reign to do whatever they want in section. If you get a good TF they can make the weekly quizzes and lecturas (which do NOT promote learning) better but ultimately you won't learn Spanish by taking this course.
I loved this course, its fantastic. I feel so much more comfortable with Spanish.
Take this course at your own peril
This class is dope. It's a little annoying to have a class 4 times a week, but the workload is not bad, and you actually learn quite a bit of Spanish. 10/10. Would recommend.
look around and find a TF you like. I had Nicholas and he was amazing.
This class is horrible. The structure is what is so poor, everything moves too quickly to understand anything. The TFs are so nice and helpful but the course head runs everything so horrendously that it does't matter.
This class covers an incredible amount of material in a short amount of time. If you are willing to keep up, this course will be extremely enjoyable and productive!
If you're looking to get rid of your language requirement, it's an easy class, but certainly not the easiest in the world.
It is not a hard course and it meets the language requirement.  If you took a year of spanish in high school it should be easy.  If you didn't take spanish it will still be easy but theres a bit of a learning curve.
You get out as much as you put in. If you really want to learn Spanish, put in the effort and you'll be surprised how much you learn by the end of the term.
You'll definitely be at a disadvantage in this class if you haven't already studied some Spanish, but it's still a great intro to the language and you cover a lot in a short amount of time.
You can get through the class without much trouble as long as you put the work in.
Don't procrastinate on the homework. Do everything the day it is due and you won't fell lost in class, and therefore you'll learn spanish more.
They try to teach you like nine tenses this semester, and it's a struggle.
Emilio Hernandez is probably one of the better instructors! Many students aren't enthusiastic because they're doing it for a requirement. It can be a lot of work, but the material is not very hard to learn.
This class is time-consuming, but manageable. The expectations are made clear. From there, it's only a matter of how much you're willing to work (mostly busy work) to do well.
It is a great way to understand the language and learn about the culture.
Only take this class if you've taken spanish before cuz otherwise it moves wayyyy too fast.
Placticar con sus amigos!
This class is fast-paced and challenging in a way that encourages ambitious learning. Many people assume that Spanish is an easy language to learn, and this is true in comparison to some other languages. However, the instructor took the material seriously and the class was not so demanding that it left students behind or unsupported, but was demanding enough that they had to work for their success. The resources were great and the instructor was wonderful and supportive of student learning and success.
Having high school backgrounds in spanish does not prepare you for college level spanish classes in anyway, except for perhaps AP level.
If you're so lucky enough to get Profe Araceli, take it without a doubt.
Please do not take this course unless you have had sufficient beginners education in the language.
This course promotes real language learning! Take this course if you enjoy the language and/or you'd like to become fluent.
This course does not teach conversational spanish and just focuses on learning tenses. The book and method is outdated and will not help you learn.
Learn a lot and immersed with teacher that is from the culture.
I hope you get Nicolas he's great
If you want a small group setting to practice the basics of spanish, this class is for you.
Make sure you don't fall behind on the online assignments
Very easy course, but you probably won't remember much. You will get very good at memorizing things in a short period of time though.
Spanish 11 is a fun class with a reasonable workload. Do your homework and practice speaking and writing. You'll be fine.
This course is definitely more difficult than the previous level. The workload isn't too stressful but it is constant every day. Quizzes seem very frequent so you constantly feel like you're being assessed. This can be both good and bad because you constantly have to study, but at least you know how you're doing with the material. Advantages that were more apparent in Spanish 10 aren't so obvious now because the material isn't so easy. You can definitely succeed if you have a steady work ethic.
Great course that enhances your understand of the Spanish language and culture
If you want to get the most out of this course, be sure to do a little work every day. Languages take continual practice to become ingrained.
If taking it to fulfill language requirement, be prepared that there may be students who are fluent in the language - don't be intimidated
Great intro Spanish course! Be wary that most of the students in this class and AA have prior experience with Spanish.
I would tell students to take a different languages that is at least taught in a more exciting way.
Pretty painless and enjoyable
Students will get a solid base of knowledge and be able to hold a conversation with a spanish speaking person after the course
If you want to learn Spanish and have a bit of experience or took Aa, this is a great continuation.  It is nearly identical to the format of Aa; however, it is a bit more challenging.  I think I improved reading, writing, and speaking Spanish because of this course.  It is a bit fast paced, so you should take that into consideration, but if you have taken Spanish before or have experience with another Romance language, you should be fine.
Its mandatory
This is great for learning Spanish when you just have a basic understanding.
Celeste is an incredible preceptor. She's hilarious, lively, and a pleasure to see everyday.
Not the best language class I have taken, and class sometimes/ often feels like a waste of time, but you will get something out of it if you put work into it.
It can be difficult, especially talking in class but it is not designed to be a hard class. Speaking in Spanish is expected of you but you definitely learn a lot.
Really fun class but requires a lot of consistent work and rote memorization. Get on top of the different verb conjugations early because you'll need it a lot throughout the semester.
Spanish AB is much more intense than AA. The amount you cover in this semester is huge. But if you stay on top of things you will learn huge amounts about the language.
Not interesting and lots of busy work.
It's a great course and not only will you learn the language, but you'll learn a lot about the culture as well.
Took more time than I expected. But if you have to do a language this is a good one.
If you have experience in spanish this is a good course to taken to fulfill your requirement
Spanish is a very easy and fun way to learn a language at Harvard. You get out of it what you put into it.
This is a great course. You'll get out of it whatever you put in. I think i really learned a lot because I really focused on learning Spanish instead of getting a good grade.
Obed is an awesome TF!
There are very few absolute beginners in the class. It can at times be difficult to keep up with the fast pace if you have never learned any Spanish. Having said this, the workload is definitely manageable.
This course goes really fast and requires constant studying and attention, more than the syllabus lets on.
This class is fun with minimal work, the TFs are hit or miss, luckily for me i got a great one.
If you've taken Aa, definitely take Ab to either finish out your language requirement or to just get more practice and skill with the language. Great, straightforward class where you learn a lot.
This course is very immersive and helps you to learn basic Spanish at a very quick pace. It is also a lot of fun and allows for bonds to form among students and the teaching staff.
Your tf can have a huge impact on learning experiences.
If you hate foreign languages, you will hate this class. The subjunctive, while fairly simple in this class, can be a tricky subject, and the grading is MUCH harder than Spanish AA. If you need to get the requirement out of the way, its your best best, but be prepared to have to work and study.
It is a great class and you will do fine in it.
If you want to go to Spanish speaking countries in the future, definitely take the course.
Since I am a graduate student, I would say that the class is good to get accustomed to the language. I think that the course emphasizes too much on getting the grammar right (e.g. in exams) rather than encouraging students to speak the language although with mistakes. However, I do not think this is because of the teacher but rather how the course is structured. Therefore, for graduate students who really want to learn Spanish for professional reasons, it might be more beneficial to go for an immersion course in a Spanish speaking country.
It is a very fast paced language class but not overly difficult.
You learn so much new vocabulary and verbs! I personally felt really accomplished when I would see things that were written in Spanish while walking around in the city and knowing what they meant! That was all thanks to this class.
The course is great and finishes out a strong foundation in Spanish when completed with Aa. Spanish Ab is much more grammar intensive than Aa, but it still manageable. All of the TFs I've had/know of in the dept. are amazing and you definitely learn a surprising amount of Spanish in just one semester.
This is a great way to improve your Spanish skills. While it pushes you in terms of having frequent quizzes, they pay off in term of Spanish skills!
It's a great class, if you stay on top of your studying you are sure to do well!
Loved taking the class with Maria!
The grading in this course is incredibly arbitrary and subjective. If the teacher likes you, you get a 92 on everything. If not, you get C's. My tf absolutely bastardized the language for me beyond any hope of me wanting to continue Spanish. I cannot express enough that if you haven't had AP spanish or at least like 5 years in the language, you shouldn't take the class. Take something else. This is a bad bad class
You learn a lot of grammar and by the end you will be able to go to Spain and be fine on your own (at least with the basics!).
this class is great if you want to learn a language in an informal, not stressful setting. that being said, if you want to really capitalize on your time at harvard, i don't think there's anything in this course that is unique to the school or could not be learned in a language class at home.
Firstly, I would hope that students get Jose as a TF because he is absolutely astounding. Secondly, I would encourage freshman to take this course since it is not as difficult as some of the other language courses and is fun and involved in participation rather than just reading.
Great teacher makes the experience much better.
Celeste Moreno is awesome! 

Now some advice:

~The class isn't bad at all. Just study the vocab, grammar, and pre-write your essays. Even with only knowing half the vocab, at least knowing the conjugation, and a general direction of an essay, you can score 90+ on the quizzes which I think each only counts for 1% of your grade. 

~Study for the midterm! If you don't study for the regular quizzes, the midterm will be harder. If you study for the regular quizzes, the midterm will be easy. This is mostly because the number of vocab words and grammar is a lot more for the midterm, and they are worth about half your grade.

~If you are taking a language just for the requirement, take the language proficiency exam before the class (summer or January)! Going into it, I thought college language would be more difficult than high school, and I would never pass the placement, so I might as well start as low as I could without taking the exam. If you have done AP Spanish, you will probably pass out of the language requirement. It will save you 4 hours a week in class and another 3 hours+ outside of class each week. Instead of getting up for a 9 am class four days a week, you might have your first class at noon or 1 in the afternoon with no classes on 2 of the 5 days of the week.

~Take this class if you want to learn Spanish or want a class without too much stress for your first semester of college. It is great at giving the basics, and will give you plenty of time to focus on other classes. Combine this with a seminar and you might only have 1 or 2 finals at the end of the semester. Once again, Celeste Moreno is awesome!
Spanish Ab is awesome! Even though I came into the class without having taken Spanish in high school, I quickly caught up to everyone else. Maria is an awesome teacher and taught me how to write, read, and speak Spanish with astounding fluency for only having taken one semester of it.
The class is fairly straightforward. You will learn grammar and practice speaking in class. At times it is uninteresting, but at other times there are opportunities to talk about Latin American ideas or values which are more fun.
Don't be discouraged even though there are many kids with a lot of Spanish knowledge in the class.
This class is pretty easy as long as you keep up with the online activities and study for the quizzes.
Maria is the bomb. Make jokes it makes the class more fun, and the teachers actually like it.
Only take it if you have to and probably just do Spanish aa even if you know a lot of spanish.
This class will put you on the track to fluency as long as you put in the effort (speaking and actively listening in class). The teachers can grade harshly, especially the compositions, because the ultimate goal is to improve your writing (which you will). You get homework almost every night but it never feels like busy work because it adds to what you are already learning in class.
Make sure you show up to class everyday.
It's pretty easy. Just take it if you want to learn Spanish because as much as it is easy, it is also effective at teaching Spanish.
Harder than Spanish Aa but still manageable and enjoyable. Overload of verb tenses and conjugations at the very end of the class, but overall material is well-taught and daily assignments force you to stay on top of it.
Celeste is so nice and so good at facilitating class discussion. I really enjoyed this class and it made me want to continue studying spanish!
this class is a really easy introduction to Spanish; take it if you want to learn basic Spanish or for your foreign language requirement.
If the resources and material of this course is taken seriously, you can learn a substantial amount of spanish.  By the time this course terminated, I was able to comfortably speak in the present as well as the subjunctive, future, and conditional tenses.
Great for beginners or people who have taken spanish aa!
This class will help you understand the Spanish language in a deeper way than you have before. You will be fully immersed in the language during class and you will be able to perceive a definite difference in your Spanish abilities after only a few weeks.
Take this class! It is extremely easy and will really leave you with a true knowledge of the language.
Read the material that will be covered before you go to class. It will help A LOT as you wont be lost during class.
A great way to continue learning Spanish!
The grammar is the most important part; Vocab is useful but if you want to do well on the exams, make an effort to study grammar.
Studying is essential, every night, even if only for half an hour. Stay in communication with your instructor and everything will be easy and straightforward.
This class is fine, but meeting everyday isn't great.
If you need the language requirement and have some background in spanish, you won't find the course difficult. Though everyone will probably find it tedious. Definitely depends on your section leader. Maria was great
There is a whole variety of students in the class, from those who are pretty fluent in Spanish to those who are beginners, from those who want to pursue a language citation to those who just want to fulfill the language requirement. This course is good for them all; I had four years of high school Spanish, and I felt it was a great review of all of the tenses/moods in Spanish, and I learned at least some new vocabulary. Looking forward to taking higher level courses, and hopefully I can have Celeste as a professor again- she is fantastic! Language courses are truly the best at Harvard!
very fun and engaging, interesting as well
More grammar than you'd expect, so lots of memorizing.
Always check for homework online, and don't forget to make corrections after initial submissions.
I took like five years of spanish (middle school through like 10th grade) and forgot a lot of things, so this course was good refresher and i actually learned how to have a conversation. its a pretty chill class as long as you don't forget to do the online assignments. Also, I didn't buy the book, never ended up needing it
Very fun class.  Definitely take if you are looking to enjoy your language experience.
Great language course. Very reasonable time commitment, with fair (kinda easy) assessments.
This class is great, just make sure that you keep up with the vocab and grammar day by day.
This class is a very low-stress, easy class. There is constant work, but it is mostly busy work that can be done in about 30 minutes each night. If you took more than two years of Spanish in high school, I would recommend not taking this class, but rather Spanish C or another higher level course.
Easy bridge between beginner spanish and a higher level. Easy review if you took a year off of spanish in high school
Spanish AB appears to directly continue Spanish AA (which I did not take).  The homework load is not bad, but it is lots of little assignments that you should write down to remember.  Marta (instructor) is the best.  She is really nice, funny, and genuinely cares for her students.  If you took a year off from Spanish before entering college, this is a great course to re-spark your memory and verb tenses.
It was fine. Not too hard. Just kind of what you expect out of an introductory Spanish class.
Its a nice and chill way to learn Spanish. Make sure that you really understand Spanish Aa's grammar though.
This course may be a little challenging at first if one is not comfortable speaking in spanish. However, as the year progresses each student will feel more comfortable with their spanish skills. I feel like I have learned so much in such a short period of time.
Be prepared to attend class four days a week.
The class is manageable and very helpful at slowly building up Spanish speaking, writing, and reading abilities. The activities about Latin American culture and history are informative and engaging.
For the Spanish speaker who can follow directions in Spanish, this class definitely strengthens your language skills. It is very thorough in its approach to grammar and vocabulary. Be comfortable with learning the vocabulary outside of class. Also be comfortable with speaking a great deal in class and writing a lot, as half of each quiz's grade is based on a composition. Grammar starts with the preterit and ends with the imperfect subjunctive. Overall, a very good class.
I am a graduate student and found this to be a great, accessible way to brush up and improve my Spanish.
There aren't really any surprises. It's what you would expect out of a high enrollment language class.
Provides a basic background for communicating in spanish
If you are interested in beginning/continuing your studies in Spanish and you are a beginner I highly recommend you take this course.
This class is great for people who need to fulfill their Spanish requirement but do not want to continue it very far.  I took four years of Spanish in high school, and took this course after not doing Spanish for over a year, and it was extremely manageable.  It is not a lot of outside work, and it is a great review of high school Spanish grammar and vocabulary.  I would definitely recommend taking it if you want a course to fulfill the requirement that is not very time consuming or difficult.
The difficulty ramps up quickly.
This class involves learning a lot of verb tenses and has much less of a focus on vocabulary than does Spanish Aa. It introduces you to a lot of parts of Spanish culture and helps you become a pretty decent writer, reader, and speaker of Spanish.
Its not going to be easy like Spanish 2 in High school.
This is a great class. I learned a lot about Spanish.
If you are someone who has never taken or learned spanish before, you will struggle through beginner spanish. Especially with students around you being able to formulate sentences when you have only learned to say I (yo), its hard to feel comfortable enough to speak up or participate in class.
Great class to get your language requirements done. You leave with concrete skills.
This class is not to bad.
Great for fulfilling language req
Not too challenging but a lot of busy work
This course is challenging and therefore rewarding - you really will get a solid foundation in Spanish, for future studying and communicating!
DO noT tAKE THIS CLAss!! TAKE AN AFRICAN LANguage or something. YOU NEED PRIOR SPANISH KNOWLEDGE FOR THIS COURSE. DO NOT TAKE IF YOU ARE LOOKING TO BEGIN A NEW laNGUAGE
I really do want to learn Spanish, but going forward I will have to find a way to do so while staying as far away from the Spanish department as possible. This course is structured terribly. The class gives you a "midterm" during the last week of class instead of just having a final like every reasonable class at Harvard. At the same time that you're studying for your midterm, and writing final papers for other classes, you have to prepare for an oral exam and do an art project for Spanish. Apparently to be able to speak another language, I need to be able to write newspaper articles about art, and format the article so it looks like it actually came from a newspaper. How is that a good use of time?? I took spanish to learn spanish, not to learn graphic fucking design. By the way, when you take that midterm you better already be fluent in Spanish. Even then, you'll struggle to finish in the 53 minutes you're given. The midterm does not measure your understanding of Spanish, it would have to be 2 hours for that to be the case.
If you haven't done Spanish before, don't take it. Life will become 5 times more difficult.
If you want to get a solid base of spanish, take this class.
Spanish AB is awesome! The course moves at a really reasonable pace, but I feel like a learned a ton this semester. The grading is not very harsh. Overall, this was a great way to pick my Spanish back up in preparation for a semester abroad.
Study hard for the quizzes and try to practice speaking spanish outside of class.
It is a very rigorous course that allowed me to not only constant practice reading, writing and speaking Spanish, but also to gain more insight on Latin American Culture, which was great!
This is a manageable course overall. There are nightly homework assignments and biweekly quizzes. The final is challenging due to the amount of grammar that you study over the course of the semester, but other than that, the course is relatively easy.
It's not an easy class and it can be annoying most times.
There is homework every night.
fun and relatively painless class. nightly homework is annoying
Natalie is the best TF...you will learn SO much from her! :)
Only do it to fulfill the requirement
It would help with learning grammar rules, but if you really want to make them yours, you'd need to do some more work outside of class and make it stick to you.
Make sure you keep up with the daily exercises.
Spanish AB lays a foundation for you to become fluent.
A good way to complete language requirement.
I learned a lot of Spanish in the two semesters of AA/AB. Way more than I expected to, and I feel confident with basic conversational dialogue.
Its not that bad if you have taken Spanish or if you have not.  you should be fine if you want to learn the basics
Get Jose- he's awesome.
Easy, informative, tests are fair and review guides are helpful, online book practice tests make everything good, class four days a week is rough though
Your success at intro level Spanish classes is completely reliant on how much work you are willing to put into it. It is no walk in the park, depending on your Spanish background, but the class structure truly allows you to learn Spanish by speaking it.
Is really good for coming into a language not knowing anything.
Its not a bad course or particularly hard, I found it easier than Aa. However, many people have previously studied spanish and the class moves quickly.
This class is enjoyable for anyone who genuinely wants to get better at Spanish. Otherwise, it will be a pain and a bit of a grind.
There are a lot of assignments in this class - expect to be busy. But your Spanish will improve immensely. Make sure to come to class, otherwise you're missing a lot.
Very fun course
It's a wonderful introductory course and provides a great foundation for Spanish.
If you take this class make sure you have a very strong Spanish background.
It is a lot of work but it does a good job of teaching spanish.
The work was hard but the results were great. I know a lot of spanish now
If you need to fulfill a language requirement or simply want to expand your Spanish knowledge, this class will give you a solid foundation in the language.
Go to a section later in the afternoon to avoid the athletes.
It was great, but if I had a TF other than jose it might have felt too fast paced and designed for someone with extensive prior knowledge.
I really enjoyed Spanish AB. The course is geared toward speaking and writing in Spanish. The more effort you put into the class, the more you will learn.
A good understanding of spanish, I now feel I can get by in conversational phrases, but it is a lot at once. You move fast!
Do your homework cause it will help you
This is a great way to fulfill the language requirement, as it goes over a lot of relevant vocabulary as well as main grammar lessons.
Spanish AB is a step up from AA. The verbs are a lot harder to keep straight and you'll actually have to study a little bit for the exams.
Great class for getting spanish down. It has a lot of little assignments throughout the week, but the overall workload is pretty light.
This can be a fun class. Make sure to do the readings assigned every day and the online activities, otherwise it is hard to find class interesting.
This class is a lot harder than Spanish Aa. It moves a lot quicker and has more daily assignments that are very time consuming.
Ask for help as soon as you feel like you are falling behind in the material.
Don't slack off then try to memorize the unit reviews at the end of each chapter (the day before the quiz). Read the book ahead of time so that you know what is being said in class!
This course is straight forward in the way that it presents the Spanish language and its basic components. Useful to know instructor's teaching style
Spanish ab is pretty manageable if you have had some experience with Spanish in the past. It is taught much like a high school class with daily homework assignments and tests. You should try to get a good TF because it is taught entirely in small sections. Maria is great!
Don't take this course unless you know spanish and enjoy learning spanish.
I will preface my answer with the fact that I had no experience with Spanish before taking Aa and Ab and I will be going to Argentina over the summer to study the language. I was a mess in Aa but I had Natalie as my TF for Ab and it was a complete 180. The class was still challenging but I felt myself progressing much more than I had in Aa and when the final oral exam came around, I found myself actually enjoying it. I think the main two things to think about when deciding to take the class are what TF will you have and how much time do you have to commit to reading a chapter from the textbook each week with around 3-4 new grammar units.
It's an intro language class - lots of busy work, but you'll get from it what you put in.
Good course to take if you need to satisfy language requirement but are not passionate about learning a language.
Fun class and effectively teaches you Spanish.
great class, you'll learn a lot
This course is great, though a lot of it depends on who your TF is.
Very worthwhile
This class is heavily dependent upon your TF. Marta was amazing, but I've heard horror stories about others. Shop around the first week and figure out which TF's style flows best with yours.
You really need to know Spanish AB cold from Day 1. You jump right into new material. Also, there are a lot of assignments in this course. You will likely be spending at least an hour every single night on an assignment. There are quizzes in the class which are extremely frequent -- almost weekly which can be really stressful. In addition, at the end of the semester there is a final exam, a final project, AND a final oral exam all within three days of each other. It is a lot
This is a good class for Spanish novices.
This course is so much fun and very rewarding!
Only take if you need to.
This class is whatever you make it.
A lot of busy work and the final is 10x harder than anything else you do in the class.
Very good intro to spanish. Go to class and do the homework and you'll do well.
Take this course if you need to complete your requirement or if you earnestly want to learn spanish. If you care about the course, you actually will learn a lot, and you'll learn it very quickly. If you don't care about the course, though, four classes a week and all of the little assignments will get very cumbersome very quickly.
It's a lot of work at times but you will learn the language.
It is a great easy class with a good routine. The only thing is some people do not like the meeting four days a week aspect, but I did not really mind.
Make sure David is your instructor.
The subject is very hard for beginners, and will probably be extremely frustrating and difficult.
The class was a great experience, and I feel that after taking this class I can randomly hold a conversation in Spanish with anyone.
Spanish AB is much better than Spanish AA in my opinion. Try to get David as your TF. He is amazing. You get really close to your classmates because you see them everyday. I looked forward to going to class  everyday instead of dreading it. You can really see your Spanish improving as well because you can actually speak it now.
Spanish AB is a great way to solidify a foundation in Spanish. It really helps you understand the basics in grammar and vocabulary. The fact that this course is taught entirely in sections of up to 15 students is great because it really allows all students a chance to participate. Make sure you have a good section TF though! Ask other students about their teaching habits, or trust your instincts in the first few days of class.
Be prepared to do busywork outside class, about equal to the number of hours of class per week.
Don't take this if you're doing it for your language requirement.  Take this course if you want to learn Spanish.  Aracelli is great, and the TF's are fantastic if you seek their help regularly.  If you're trying to get your language requirement done easily, there are much easier options.
At the end of this class, I felt that I had a firm grasp on Spanish grammar as well as reading and writing.
A great way to brush up on Spanish from high school!
Very reasonable amount of work and easy to keep up with material.
I would recommend this to students who are either genuinely interested in becoming fluent in Spanish, or need to meet a foreign language requirement. Otherwise, it's not the best idea to just take an intro language course.
Get a good TF!
If you've taken any kind of language whatsoever, just buckle down and study during the summer so you can pass out of the language requirement. I took a huge hit to my GPA while not even getting much out of it. This is one of those "great effort little reward" classes. Seriously, save yourself. Take Zulu or something. I heard it's an AMAZING experience. Spanish is just brutal.
Spanish AB is much more difficult and much faster moving than Spanish AA. If you have not reviewed some of the material beforehand, you will need to work pretty hard to keep pace.
It is a very normal intro language course
It was a very fair and useful language course when trying to complete your language requirement
It is a great way to begin learning spanish
It's a good course to improve your Spanish. The quizzes throughout the semester carry you through new material at a quick but reasonable pace.
I have learned 100% of the Spanish I know from the last 9 months in Spanish AA and AB, and I can hold a meaningful conversation with a roommate who is fluent. These courses are worth the effort. If you quiz yourself on the vocab and keep up with the grammar during the week of instruction, you should have no trouble excelling in both AA and AB.
Very interactive and fun course
Take advantage of the office hours and practice as much as you can even outside class work.
This is a course where you get what you put into the course. The course can be very difficult because you fall behind in class or you can take advantage of the teachers and materials and really gain a lot of knowledge on the language
This class if more difficult than Spanish Aa, but I still loved it. Definitely doable if you study and keep up!
Its a great time.
Basically the same as Spanish Aa but with more advanced grammatical concepts. You'll get to the end of the textbook. Not very difficult. Will be frustrating if you've expected to make huge progress in your own skills by the end of one year, but might be due to the general challenge of language learning rather than the class itself. Much will depend, of course, on your TF.
Too much work but get through it.
Make sure to take at least a year of spanish in high school before taking this class.
This course is awful. Nacho is the worst teacher I have ever had. Do anything to avoid having Nacho.
Just took too much time. Lots of work.
Don't fall behind on the workload.
If you have any background in Spanish whatsoever, Spanish Ab will stretch that knowledge and cover nearly all of the verb conjugations in Spanish in just one semester. It is amazing how quickly this course can expand someone's understanding of the Spanish language who has had little knowledge of or exposure to the language prior to enrolling in the course.
great way to get the language requirement out of the way. great teaching staff too!
This class provides such a nice balance to one's schedule, because it's a very intimate learning environment and is more interactive than most classes. It's also very manageable for people who have never taken spanish before. As long as you complete all of the daily assignments and show up to class ready to learn (and make plenty of mistakes along the way), then you'll get a lot out of it.
It takes a lot of effort, at least it did for me, but by the end you will know quite a bit of Spanish. Your experience can also be good or bad based on the instructor that you get.
Completing my foreign language requirement with Spanish Ab was less painful than taking two semester of another language. And that's probably all you needed to know.
Take Spanish to fulfill your language requirement.
You have to take a language course as part of the requirement.  Intro courses will go a lot faster and will likely not be as easy as you expect they would be.
I think that a lot is said at Harvard about how great language courses are and how much people love them and find them to not require too much work of you.That was not my experience of this class.It takes a lot of work outside of class hours to keep up with assignments - online activities and quiz preparation - let alone to actually review and consolidate and master and practise the material. Do be careful to find a good TF - one who is encouraging and positive - as this can make a huge difference in your experience.I truly did only take this class to fulfill the language requirement, but I thought I would come to enjoy it. As much as I would have liked to, I did not. I resented it. If you're in the same boat of having to take a language class, perhaps try to choose a language where you, or at least the teacher and your classmates, are excited to be there.
I'm a graduate student and I don't think this class is well aligned with my graduate program. I think it would be helpful to offer class sections for graduate students.
You get out of this class what you put into it.  You can easily just scoot along and pass, but thats a waste of your time and effort.
This class is very poor- do not expect to learn anything unless you already know a fair amount of Spanish, as many of my classmates did. It is not difficult, but it is very frustrating because many of your classmates will already know about 75% of the material and outperform you no matter what level you work at.
It was a lot more work than I thought it would be! And it's a lot of tenses. Overall, you do become decently good at Spanish though. Being able to speak Spanish is more useful than you'd think.
Take this class if you want to make the large leap to intermediate Spanish. You'll learn a lot, and make sure you like your section leader.
Great way to fulfill the foreign language requirement & a useful language to know the basics of
This class is like Spanish AA but maybe a little harder. Structured more like a High School class rather than a college class in the sense that there are nightly assignments that are tedious but there's nothing that is very time-consuming.
An easy course that fills the language requirement.
If you want to learn a language, approach this course with a self-directed attitude of what you want to get out of the course so you can actually learn to use it through experiential opportunities to practice it.
Not a bad class if you took spanish aa or had high school spanish experience.
Make sure you read the book before you come to class - you'll get so much more out of section.
keep up with vocab
Difficult class, but definitely doable.
Great course, intensive but worth it
I would recommend Araceli Lovelle. She was so patient and amazing during AA. Nacho is really funny though
Take this course if you have a few years of high school Spanish experience or AA experience.
If you have to take spanish, take the easiest one available to you probably, but languages won't be an easy A even if you think they should be.
Its a good amount of work, however you will learn a good amount of spanish
The class depends entirely on the teacher.
Just because it is Spanish AB does not make it easy.  Be prepared to work.
Be sure to shop your section heads to make sure that you have the best one!
It is not like AA.
You will learn a lot of Spanish!
take this class but make sure you keep up with your online exercises.
Class was really great! It's tough having a class 4 days a week, but Juan made it really fun. There is very little outside work -- just enough to reinforce what you learned the past week. Juan was super relaxed and really cared about the course and all the students -- definitely my favorite teacher so far!  It's a nice course to balance out a heavy course load.
I would tell students that this class was boring and the homework too monotonous.
