This will be one of the best Spanish classes you ever take! You will learn about history and literature of medieval Spain from an incredibly kind and learned professor who makes the course material interesting and fun!
This class is a great introduction to medieval Spanish literature.  It is well taught, and the coursework is manageable.  I really enjoyed it!
I would strongly encourage students interested in Spanish cultural history to take this course.
It provides a great panoramic view to a difficult area of Spanish literature through a well-guided, fun and interesting philological approach.
The texts are really hard to read, so be committed. Know what you are getting yourself into.
Professor Giron-Negron is one of the most brilliant people I have ever had the pleasure to study under.  And he loves his topic, he makes it fun, and he's also extraordinarily kind.  Don't make this the first time you've ever studied Spanish literature, but if you've studied it before, in high school or college, take this class!  There is zero chance you will regret it.
This class is probably my favorite one at Harvard. Professor Girn is definitely my favorite professor. He is reason alone to take the class.
"De los mis ojos, tan fuertemiente llorando / tornaba la cabea --- y mir con tristeza por detrs al saber que estara dejando este curso que tanto he querido.
Some of the readings are a little strange, but Professor Giron is a great professor, and it's really worth knowing more about this literature.
This class teaches solid material from a professor who really knows his stuff. It may not be as fancy or "sexy" as other classes, but it's wonderful in its effective simplicity: it sets out to cover the canonical literary works of medieval Castilla, and does a fantastic job at it. Prof. Giron Negron is not only incredibly intelligent and knowledgeable, but he's an absolute joy - try to take a class with him before you graduate, you won't regret it! If you're interested in the history of Spanish literature, take it!
This is a very technical course on Medieval Spanish literature. It is necessary to have some background on the literature, very strong language skills, as well as extraordinary interest in the technical aspects of the literature. If you don't, this is not the course for you.
Spanish is hard.  Girn is inspiring.  Decide for yourself.
This is an amazing course that does an excellent job of introducing students to some of the most important medieval Spanish texts. Professor Girn is amazing and one of my favorite professors at Harvard. If you're interested in the subject matter, I would definitely recommend taking it. Although the texts are daunting, Professor Girn does an excellent job of making them accessible to non-native speakers.
Professor Giron-Negron will always make the material interesting and fun.
Professor Girn has an amazing knowledge, and listening to him talk about the texts we were reading was at the same time informative and pleasurable. I learned a lot, and always happily went to class, knowing I will enjoy it!
The literature that we explored in Spanish 110 was the most beautiful, entertaining and captivating I have ever read. It truly captures what I think a real liberal arts should -it makes you think about life, but also gives you a window into what life was like during the Middle Ages in Spain. I can say that, despite difficulty understanding the first time around, understanding the stories is incredibly rewarding and you just feel like a more cultured person. I literally laughed out loud multiple times during my readings, and even shed a tear over a couple of truly heartbreaking ones. Overall, this class is what you invest into it, and if you take advantage of Professor Girn and Luis, their dedication, absolute passion and mastery of the material are truly inspiring. This is the best course I have taken in the department. I want to take it again!
The workload is reasonable, yet you still get a good sense of what was happening in the Iberian Middle Ages. On occasion, the old forms of Spanish pose a challenge and readings therefore require quite some time. Luis is a supportive and engaging professor.
I took this to fulfill part of my secondary req. I entered this class with little to no interest in medieval Spanish, but Prof. Giron was really amazing at getting the class interested in what the material was and the themes that were woven throughout the works and how they applied to the time in which they were written. The only graded work is a midterm essay and final essay, which are not too difficult, but paying attention in lectures for the details is essential to having information to write about the works.
Professor Girn is fair, approachable, and makes the class very entertaining!
You obtain a broad view of this period but also you obtain a deep perspective of the authors.
The course was just great! He would have to convince to other Faculty members to teach courses like this. It was just what I need for covering an academic gap.
This course is a great introduction to the Spanish medieval literature, taught by the ever-so-inspiring and great prof Girn
Great course
Professor Girn is really a living encyclopedia and has a great talent for teaching. His course provides with both a comprehensive understanding of Spanish medieval literature and a thorough reading of its texts and opens up, especially in the constant reference to other concomitant cultures by the professor, an infinity of ideas for research and an infinity of questions. I highly recommend this course, also for those who are not Spanish elective, because it is a source of personal enrichment and growth.
This is a class for those who like to read and enjoy discussing what they have read. Much interesting material is introduced in the lectures, but in order to get the most out of them one must complete the reading assignments. The tests are not difficult, but the essays require work and thought.
if you're interested in medieval spanish literature, take this course
This class was great - the texts weren't super difficult to navigate and Luis's lectures were incredible.
