Definitely a mandatory course for those interested in studies of coloniality.
come and be transformed
This class is spectacular. Professor Garca-Pea is very well versed in all of the material she teaches. The literature is engaging and the historical overview she offers is very helpful and important. Most importantly, this class forces you to engage with preconceived notions of what the Caribbean is. The class does a great job of forcing the students to break down popular imaginations of the Caribbean and leads us through discussions that deal with the more unsavory parts of Latin American history. It's an incredible class, definitely take it!
The class will change the way you view the Caribbean and its relation to the US. It is a powerful paradigm shifting experience that will impact you even if you are already familiar with the topic and the region.
Taking a class with Professor Garcia-Pena is a must. There was never a dull moment in this course. The class discussions always felt so valuable and made me question my own role in perpetuating inequity and the destructive consumption of the Caribbean. Profe makes the class feel like a family, albeit a family that pushes its members to continually defend and re-evaluate their perspectives. The texts we read are absolutely groundbreaking and we even get to speak with some of the authors! However, what makes this class so special is Profe's stewardship and the way she invests in the personal and academic growth of her students. It's honestly a joy to come to class knowing I'll be SHOOK (in the best of ways) by the end :'D Take this class -- I promise it will be one of the best things you do on this campus.
This course is engaging, paradigm-shifting, and all around amazing.  Prof. Garca Pea does a great job of guiding conversations around the literature we read and in giving context, and provides amazingly helpful feedback on papers and project proposals.  There's quite a bit of reading, but you will enjoy every moment of it, so you won't even notice.  Truly a gem of a course!
Profe is incredible, and Cristina is always easy to get in contact with and gives back the most amazing feedback. This class is one that I genuinely looked forward to going every single week.
