Excellent class. Fascinating subject, and Prof. Aguirre's enthusiasm for it is contagious.
This is an excellent course to explore the history and literature of the Spanish Civil War and to learn about this important episode in modern history. Prof. Aguirre is fun, enthusiastic, and very helpful. You won't regret taking this class.
Amazing course. You'll get a solid understanding of one of the most complex conflicts of the 20th century and one, frankly, that isn't usually given the respect it deserves. It's a really interesting investigation of all different sorts of perspectives on the war from each side and, more generally, it raises a lot of interesting questions about history and historiography - if you're interested in the more theoretical aspect of what history "is," this class treats it in quite some depth. Not an easy topic to discuss, but the class is pretty chill nevertheless. Do be fairly confident in your Spanish skills - most importantly reading - before enrolling; some of the readings in Spanish are really rough, and you'll get more out of the class overall if you know what's going on.
If you want to immerse yourself in the literary and psychological imagination surrounding the Spanish Civil War, take this class. It's not a history class, but rather a class about the way history is constructed and the inherent instability of the past. The readings are well organized, Daniel Aguirre Oteiza is an incredibly knowledgeable and energetic professor, and you will without a doubt learn a lot in his class.
Do not miss the chance to take this class. Professor Aguierre is a wonderful human being and asks you the trickiest questions to make you think more about the material
You must take a course with Daniel before you graduate.
I liked this course a lot, and it was very obvious that Daniel and Sergi were extremely enthusiastic about the material. Sometimes I felt a bit lost in the class, and I think this had to do with 1) the density of the texts and 2) the literature heavy bent analysis wise. But overall, if you enjoy the topic and are committed to the class, you will get a lot out of it, both practically and thematically.
Great opportunity to analyze some very interesting texts...readings are sometimes lengthy but they all are very fascinating and useful. Love this course and would recommended it to anyone.
This class is a great high level Spanish class for those looking to advance their language skills. It does require a good bit of reading, but anyone with a background in Spanish courses would do well.
