Great class. Really enjoyable and you will do well if you put time and effort in.
This class is a gem of Harvard that is a well-kept secret. If you are proficient in reading/listening to Spanish and want to explore those skills, this is a class for you. And if you want to do those things, AND create art while doing it, this is DEFINITELY a class for you. Some of our projects were photography-based, drawing-based, sound-based...some kid wrote a song for his final project! There are not many classes in which you walk out with glitter glue on your hands...What you should know is that it is a very "free-spirited" teaching staff, so they often seem to make it up as they go along, which can lead to confusion. Just do the readings, and you will have quite an experience!
This class is fair, fun, and it only meets for two hours each week. The professors are both insightful and cool and the format of the class encourages lively and at times comical discussion. Prof. Sommer is a total character and Kahlil acts as a good balance for her. If you like art and Spanish, this is the class to take. Hidden gem!
I would tell future students that the idea of Pre-Textos is great, but the course itself didn't quite hold together.
A very interesting Spanish class - the actual class time is spent working through artistic activities to deepen your understanding of the text. Your writing will improve through weakly 1-page papers, and your speaking ability will also improve in class. It's also relatively low workload.
This class is like nothing you have ever taken before. For those who like structure, this may not be the class for you. It is very open and collaborative, and the professor is great. Sometimes it does seem a little difficult, and you may feel like you have no idea what you're doing, but neither does the rest of the class.
This is a great course, and it will challenge you, but it still needs to go through a bit more structuring to create a better finished product.
The idea behind this class is a good one, but the structure is still very vague and undefined. It would be a great course after some more modifications.
This class is great. You'll learn a lot about Spanish literature in a broad sense, and it's a really easy workload. Classtime is stressful trying to understand all that's going on, but you'll survive it.
This class is great for improving your speaking skills and for thinking on your feet. It's a really fun class that moves you to leave your comfort zone, think outside of the box, and think creatively, all in another language. Doris is great at facilitating a safe, creative space and making everyone feel comfortable while giving dynamic activities meaning in a literary context. Speaking is emphasized more than reading or writing. A very fun, light, and doable class. I'd recommend it.
