If you enjoy literary theory, speak Spanish, and are willing to put in a lot of time, this class is definitely among the best you can take at Harvard.
This class challenged me beyond what I wanted. It is difficult to keep up with all of the reading and response papers, since there is never a break. However, it was worth it; I learned more than I think I have from any other class, and it has changed the way I think about literature and movies.
It is interesting and easy, and not too focused solely on Hispanic culture.
That if they are having trouble with their grammar, visit the Tutoring Center because their grade will not be as good as it could be.
I would recommend this course, but it is a requirement for those concentrating in Spanish or in LAS.  I would just be prepared for the workload and to be a little stressed out about one's grade.
This class is analytically challenging without being overwhelming. It gives you a good overview of poetry, prose, and film and provides interesting discussions.
The discussion in this class will go above and beyond the expected. Your opinion will be respected and your words heard and weighed carefully. You will be pushed to think further, deeper than you ever have before, and by following will arrive at the most amazing discoveries. The class will give you tools for asking the right questions, and will teach you the basics of analysis, which can be applied in any class. You will read amazing literature, watch amazing movies, and discuss them with an amazing professor.
You will be challenged, and you will rise to the occasion and be proud of the work you put forth.
This class is very interesting and gives you an excellent understanding of necessary analytic skills with an esteemed professor.  However, it requires many dedicated and focused hours of work.
Students would be lucky to take this course! I highly reccomend it.
You will learn a lot but you need to work for the grade.
It will seem like a lot of work to do the response papers but it really helps to improve language skills while learning interesting ways to analyze literary forms.
I would tell them that they'll learn SO much vital information/techniques for RLL concentrators and that they won't regret the work they'll put into the course.  I loved this class.
Be prepared to work hard and dedicate a lot of time to the readings and the response papers! But it's definitely worth it!
Upwards of 14 hours per week on assignments that in the end count for less than half of your grade.  While you may learn a lot from independent research, his grading style is very subjective and close-minded.
This is a DIFFICULT/HARD class, even by Harvard standards. Be prepared to work.
If you are interested in analysis of literature and movies this class will be engaging. If it is a concentration requirement then you will leave the class with a strong skill set in analysis, which will prepare you for future classes you will take within the department.
this class is a decent amount of work. the readings and response papers (which are usually due twice a week) take a bit of time. however, professor cifuentes is a great professor. he's really passionate about the material and his students, and he also helps change your way of thinking and analyzing literary works. take it as a concentration requirement, but it's too much work for a elective/secondary field requirement
Great teacher, interesting material, really manageable work load.
This course is challenging, but Prof Cifuentes is absolutely amazing at walking you through the analysis and forcing you to see everything on a much deeper level than you're used to. It is less of a Spanish class than it is an intense analytical class dealing with prose, poetry, and film--that just happens to be conducted in Spanish. Come to the class with an open mind about interpretations and you will learn so much.
I was a little worried coming into the tutorial having only taken Spanish 40 and never studying abroad, but I am SO happy that I did.  This was one of my favorite courses this semester, and the professor is one of the best I have ever had.
Again, you MUST be more than competent with Spanish.  Otherwise, the course is a nightmare.
The professor is very enthusiastic about the course and very understanding.
Good course, and a good overview of the intersection between literary and cultural studies.
If Professor Rabasa is teaching this class, you must take it. You'll be glad you did.
Don't be afraid of the word "tutorial"- take this class, whether or not you are a Hispanic Studies concentrator. It was terrific!
The work and effort you put in is well worth it. This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard thus far.
Professor Rabasa is a great mentor and motivates enthusiastic work.
Fabulous professor and rigorous, challenging course well worth taking
Amazing course! Great in-class discussion, very modest workload, constant feedback, and tons of opportunities for independent, self-motivated work.
Don't take this class until you have had an immersion experience or are just exceptionally good at speaking Spanish.
Fantastic class!! Take it! Make sure you do all the readings/watch the films twice etc and come super prepared to participate in class - participation is 60% of your grade but don't let that deter you. Professor Cifuentes is brilliant and every class will blow your mind. You will leave the class knowing how to analyze like you never thought possible.
Take this class. It will make your understanding of any future humanities class more nuanced; Cifuentes is particularly gifted in teaching, probably one of the best professors I've encountered during my time at Harvard; the texts/films we analyze are supremely interesting, the steady work flow and lack of final at the end of the course allows deep engagement with the material without unnecessary stress added during reading period/finals.
Take this class! The material is great and the professor is phenomenal.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. The readings were phenomenal, the people in the class were phenomenal, Cifuentes was phenomenal. It is definitely a little challenging but so rewarding.
Unlike other classes where you don't understand how to read deeply into text or don't understand how conclusions were reached about the "meaning" of the text, Cifuentes shows you exactly why and how you can come to a conclusion about text/film, and it actually makes sense. It also makes you think. It's not easy, but rewarding.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!   Especially if Cifuentes is teaching.  I can't recommend it more.  Not only do you get to read really great stories and watch awesome movies, but you have fantastic class discussions and you learn so much.
This class is definitely worth taking even if you are just thinking about it! It has been the best/my favorite class this year! The professor is there to help the entire time!
Professor Cifuentes is absolutely one of the best teachers I've ever had. Incredibly smart and enthusiastic- I've tried to take as many classes with him as possible because he makes thinking/talking/reading/writing in Spanish wonderful.
YOU WILL LEARN A LOT. Sometimes the class can be frustrating because there's so much to learn, but it's well worth taking and it's a great jumping point/requirement if you decide to stay with the RLL department.
This class is utterly amazing. The professor we had this semester is going on leave for a year, so I don't know what it'll be like next year since the course format was so specific to our professor's personality, but speaking for this year, this class is amazing. There's no unnecessary busy work, the feedback was useful and on time, he was always happy to meet with us outside class, and he was just sooo enthusiastic about what he was teaching. This class has been my favorite class at Harvard.
This course is the best course I have taken at Harvard so far. I won't ever read a poem or story or watch a movie the same way. The tools that Profesor Cifuentes provides his students with are incredibly applicable to experiences of everyday life. The structure of he syllabus, with weekly papers instead of exams and final papers, not keeps students engaged in the course better than other courses, but also relieves so much stress at the end of the semester. I recommend this course strong to anyone interested in improving abilities to read, write and listen to Spanish, as well as gain analytical tools that apply to future coursework and life encounters.
This is the best class I have yet taken at Harvard. The skills you will learn in this class will be useful in all of the classes you take in the future - not just Spanish classes or even humanities courses, but science courses as well. Allow me to elaborate; this class requires a weekly written assignment of its students - an analysis of one or more works of literature or films in less than 400 words. This assignment teaches you careful consideration and concision in a way that can be used in writing papers for your science classes as well as your English classes. I've already found this to be true, and I know it will prove even more true as I take more classes. Prof. Cifuentes is the best - he really cares about the material and his students, and it shows constantly. That can't be overstated. He really is a talented and caring teacher. This class is never dry or boring. Furthermore, it will really improve your Spanish as you are required to speak and write regularly. I give this class my highest recommendation.
Take this course! It's really small and Professor Cifuentes is the man! He has basically read everything and seen every movie so you will learn a lot! Some of the readings are a bit abstract and hard to understand, but Professor Cifuentes does a good job of explaining them. Also, your only assessments are short essays (400 words) on the weekends and class participation. Take this class and you will never read or watch movies the same way again!
This is actually the best class ever. Prof. Cifuentes is a genius, but he's also so humble and cares so much about his students. He will teach you everything you need to know to understand literature, film, and even life. Definitely take this course!
This class is absolutely incredible. The readings, although sometimes a lot, are excellent and Cifuentes is the most enthusiastic, knowledgeable professor I've ever had. My word of advice to to budget your time with the movies because movies and readings together are a lot more time then you might anticipate before turning in the weekly essay!
