This is a great beginner's Spanish literature class. If you still need to improve your grammar skills, Andrew will be understanding and supportive, though you may consider taking another class (maybe in the 60's) that devotes some time to grammar. For all intents and purposes, this is a pure literature class. That being said though, Andrew is a phenomenal leader-- he gives thoughtful feedback, and leads class through challenging discussions while being extremely empathetic to his sometimes struggling students. A great class overall!
This is one of the best Spanish classes I have taken at Harvard. Dr. Gray is an AMAZING teacher. He is very knowledgeable on all of the readings and history, so the in-class discussion is very informative. He also gives great feedback on all the assignments.
Andrew Gray generates an immense amount of enthusiasm for the readings and makes the course thoroughly enjoyable.
Although some of the works use slightly archaic vocabulary, the class is interesting and covers a lot of ground. I particularly enjoyed the fact that we anchored our explorations of the literature with the works' and authors' places in Spanish history. Professor Gray was extremely knowledgeable about the material, very accessible outside of class, and enthusiastic about teaching.
I think this was a great class to both practice Spanish and explore Spanish literature.
If medieval literature isn't really your thing, then I'd recommend choosing another course if you can. The subject matter could be tedious to read and occasionally dry if the time period isn't necessarily your thing. If you DO like medieval subjects, though, then the class will be phenomenal to you!
Before you take this course, look closely at the literature as the discussion revolves around the text. If you are interested in the lit from this period, definitely take this class! the discussions, while all in spanish, are accessible to non native speakers while providing opportunities for improvement. And Andrew is really approachable, so it never felt intimidating.
You get really wrapped up in the material in the class!   More than that, Professor Gaylord is so encouraging, and you are really able to start analyzing and reading into the works effectively!  It made me feel so smart, haha!
This class is full of great material and it's taught by an amazing professor. Mary Gaylord is full of knowledge and her passion for the works we read is visible. It made me really enjoy going to class. However, the reading is really tough. I spent a long time muddling through it. I was stressed out about not understanding enough to write a daily response paper. But if you are skilled at Spanish or you are willing to work your butt off, then it's totally worth it. Overall, I loved this class.
The readings are great, only if you are interested in medieval stuff though!
This class should only be taken by students who have an interest in Spanish Medieval literature.
This is a good class if you're interested in literature and Spanish at the same time.  There is a fair amount of reading and a small writing assignment due each class, but the workload is definitely manageable and the professor is really open and likable.
This course is good. The reading list is very broad in medieval and Golden Age Spanish classics which is hard to find in the Romance Language Department at Harvard. I recommend it highly.
Take this class only if you are interested in a secondary field or concentration in RLL. Once in the course, do all the readings and diarios when assigned. It is very easy to get behind.
Best Spanish class you'll take at Harvard! Prof. Gaylord leads engaging conversations, the readings are very fun, and classes are different every time. Your Spanish skills will most definitely improve because you'll be writing a lot (and homework is fun, not difficult).
This was a relatively easy, but also slightly tedious course. The texts were often very challenging because their spanish was so different from the modern version. And Professor Gaylord is a very nice woman but not the most confident lecture speaker.
Be prepared to read a significant amount; however, all of the readings are interesting.
Take this class only if you are genuinely interested in studying early modern Spanish literature OR if it is part of your concentration requirement. This class should have been placed at the 100-level. Mary Gaylord is a sweetheart, and this might make the course seem easier than what it actually is. The grading is very particular, it is important to do your best if you want to do well in the course.
Overall, I enjoyed this course, though the books are pretty difficult to understand and sometimes the lectures could be a little boring... The acting part of the class was really fun. All of the instructors really made an effort to expand you knowledge acquisition beyond simply reading and writing, with movie screenings, a play viewing, and a trip to Houghton, all of which I really enjoyed.
If you really enjoy Spanish literature and want to move quickly through some of the most important texts, this is a good class to take.
I would tell students that this course tries to cover a lot of ground in a short period of time, and that the fact that lectures are  not inactive can be very frustrating.
The TFS were wonderful. The lectures could drag on at times but the workload is fair. The topics were interesting to start out with but got old pretty quickly. The literature is good but we tried to cover too many books in too little time.
The readings are very difficult to understand because they're all written in Medieval Spanish, and the lectures are often pretty dull.  It can be enlightening at times when you get to read classics like Don Quijote and El Cid, and the sections are fun because there's a lot of acting, but on the whole its a very boring course. However, the Professor and TFs are extremely helpful in making the material more clear and making the essays easy to write, so it is not too much work or too difficult.
Teachers are very enthusiastic and make the curriculum exciting.
The period in history is really interesting, and the readings are great. I was a little put off at first by the professor, but she knows a lot and she really enjoys teaching this class.
This is a well taught course with a good selection of readings and a very enthusiastic professor. However, it is a literature course taught in Spanish, as opposed to a Spanish course that happens to be taught with literature. Those looking for a way to improve their Spanish skills would be wise to look elsewhere, especially as many of the texts are written in archaic Spanish. If you are someone who would thinks the best way to learn English is by reading Shakespeare, this would be a course for you. Unless you enjoy classical literature, there are probably better courses to take.
This course is a great way to fulfill an upper level requirement. The material is excellent and the teaching staff is very engaging. This course was the first time I analyzed literature in a foreign language and wrote literary criticisms.
Don't take this if you're not interested in medieval literature.
This class is disorganized and frustrating. The reading list is too ambitious and Professor Gaylord gives disjointed lectures that seem all the more confusing because you feel as though she would be more comfortable speaking in English than stumbling through her lectures in Spanish. The section for this class, however, redeems it. The TFs (Goretti and Veronica) were articulate, knowledgeable, and frankly awesome.
