This class was very interesting and you can learn a lot but the reading is difficult and you need to have a very strong ability to write in Spanish.
Only take this class if you really like reading old texts in Spanish. The professor and TF tried to make the class interesting, but the content was extremely boring which made it difficult to be engaged during class and section. The texts are all pretty long and can be rather dense. I'd advise against taking this class unless you have to as a requirement.
This class is a good introduction to Latin American colonial literature. The readings are a bit difficult at times, so make sure you have a good reading knowledge of Spanish if you take this class. A working knowledge of colonial history will also prove helpful.
The course is interesting overall but demands a bit in terms of an essay every week as well as dissecting long Spanish readings. There are often English versions that help to understand the readings with precolonial or colonial Spanish but not always, making it often a tedious task to get to the main ideas of the readings. The lectures often didn't contribute much except for a general readings of the readings done by Professor Rabasa. The topics are interesting and definitely widens your perspective of the precolonial and colonial times as well as the European mindset, but the themes often repeated with the issue of Eurocentrism and how to develop the place of the Indians.
This class is a great way to familiarize yourself with colonial literature and post-colonial theory in a Latin American context. Professor Rabasa is a genius academic--and everyone should definitely take a course with him.
This course is definitely an interesting and challenging course, but for students who are not fluent/heritage speakers/native speakers, take it with caution!
I would not suggest this class unless you have to take it as a requirement - even though I enjoy studying the colonial/contact period in Latin America, the lectures were not very engaging or exciting. The readings themselves are great and well selected, but, with the exception of sections, the class is pretty boring. And it's a very easy class.
The class has very interesting topics, but many times it floats past through them and you don't really focus deeply on them. Half the time I was lost in lecture, but section was great and Obed is a great TF. The readings are really difficult, especially the theoretical ones.
This course has a wonderful reading list, full of texts that you should read before you die (or before you graduate). With that said, it can be a lot, especially if you're taking the class as a Spanish class rather than a Hist/Lit class. Professor Rabasa and Obed are great, although lectures can be a little dry with powerpoint slides that just have text from top to bottom. Take it, if it looks better run and better organized than it was this year!
It's a good way to get a scope of the colonization of the Americas. I think it really sets up an understanding of this point of history.
A lot of work, but definitely worth it. The class had a very friendly atmosphere.
In this class, you learn about literary techniques, Hispanic history, and prominent writers; it's a great class!
This course will make you appreciate Spanish-American colonial history and literature while developing your critical reading and analytical skills.
It may be different with another instructor, since this was a visiting professor.
The class might seem confusing on the first day, but if you stick with it, it gets easier. (Although it is still a lot of work! But it's work that's definitely worth it.)
A fascinating class - don't be scared off by the 16th and 17th century literature, Professor Rabasa will guide you through the readings with his insightful analysis and lectures.
This class is hands-down one of the best Spanish classes at Harvard.  It is by no means easy, but Professor Rabasa and TF Nicole Leganani make sure you are well-prepared to tackle the readings.  This class provides context for everything, making the reader engage in ways other lit. class at Harvard don't.  Professor Rabasa is also an enthusiastic professor full of great anecdotes.
The material is fairly difficult, but the lectures and sections do a great job of helping the students interpret it.
This course provides a very good overview of many of the major writers and works of colonial Latin America, and of the themes tying them together.
You should have a strong background in the Spanish language. The lectures and section are fine, but the readings can be very difficult.
This is a great class to take if you're interested in Latin American affairs because it teaches you a great deal about developments that were instrumental in defining what it is today.
This is a wonderful course, and if these two teachers ever offer it again, it should totally be taken without question!
