It is a great class where you read excellent short stories and write your own.
I would tell them that they should like spanish as a language and be prepared to be creative.
This is the best language class I've ever taken. I engaged with the fiction we read and felt confident about creating my own. Not only was the class more supportive and more fun than any other language class, but it also surpassed the English-language creative writing courses I've taken at the college.
It's really fun and manageable, and the TFs are very nice and create a comfortable environment in which to practice your spanish
This is the best language class I've taken at Harvard (and I've taken a lot). The assignments and the reading are engaging and generally fun, and Dr. Guerra is the best professor I've had here. This is the only class where I've had fun with every written assignment.
Not a creative writing course, an advanced Spanish course.
You don't actually do that much writing, but you do read a lot, get a good grammar review, and practice Spanish, so it's probably worthwhile.
I think having Manolo as a TF makes the class worthwhile. I'm not sure how the other section went, but Manolo's section was incredibly enjoyable.
This is, by far, the best Spanish class I have ever taken.
it's an opportunity to explore the writing of fiction that makes a statement and that carries meaning with it, in addition to practicing your spanish.
I love Spanish and I love creative writing. When I found out about this course, which combined the two, I knew that I would enjoy this class from the beginning. It is a very challenging course, so don't expect to get easy grades. But, it is very worthwhile and very fun along the way.
So writing papers can get frustrating, even in classes you like... But in this class, you get to write short stories instead: it feels like you're taking a break from work and are just being creative.
It was a great class.  Fully endorse it.
A fun and easy way to strengthen spanish writing skills and write creatively.
Ernesto is a great teacher. The class also exposes you to a variety of cultures.
This class has been the best part of Harvard. It is rare to find an engaging and dynamic professor, interesting material, and opportunities for creativity, and Spanish 50 offers all these and a lot of fun too.
Interesting, never boring, good stories, excellent paper topics (aka write about whatever you want), in short, Ernesto is the man.
If you are a student of Spanish, take this course. It is, by far, the most rewarding Spanish class I have taken in my entire time studying the language! Learning a language is about expression, and this course places the language in your hands so that you leave feeling like you possess Spanish in a way that you didn't before. Do not miss out on this course!
If you have a creative bone in your body, and love Spanish, this is the course for you!
You will read stories with which you can gain a perspective into Latin American culture. The stories you will write will be interesting because they are your creation over a topic chosen by you. You will enjoy going to spanish class.
If you speak Spanish reasonably well and are looking to polish your written Spanish, this is a perfect course. If you're thinking at all about taking this course, make sure to shop it, and you'll see what I mean. I enjoyed every minute of it, and I wish they offered a higher level of the course.
If you are nearly fluent in Spanish, love to read, and have a creative streak, this is the class for you.
Very interesting reading pieces and discussion-- your Spanish will improve!
Professor Guerra will greatly broaden your perspective on how to look at not only Hispanic literature, but literature from any language. Be prepared to be creative, to put yourself a little outside of your comfort zone, and to vastly improve your ability to both speak and write Spanish.
This is by far the best Spanish class ever.  There is so much freedom in writing assignments.
A TON OF FUN and great way to finish your citation. DO IT!
I'm willing to recommend the course on the condition that they make changes to the readings and make them more enjoyable and fun.  Also, they need to make the final play that they read relevant to real spanish, not some archaic version of it.
I would warn them that there is a lot of creative writing and performance..
Take it! Enjoyable, change of pace from your other classes, Paul was so nice and really cared about his students (which is rare at Harvard).
The changes in the syllabus increased the workload in this course without increasing how much someone gets out of it. Weekly compositions were too much, because we did not have the chance to put much effort into any single composition and we often did not get assignments back before writing the next one.
The creative writing aspect was the best part.
This class is a great way to continue Spanish at the college.  It's fun and definitely good practice for speaking and reading.
Not too much workGreat TFCool assignments
This class is entertaining and engaging.
This is an incredible course for motivated students who really want to improve their Spanish. It is a tremendous amount of work, though, so should be only taken by students serious about Spanish.
Cristina has an amazing approach to teaching and it's obvious that she has a passion and is excited about both the course and the students within. I enjoyed going to class and often looked forward to it.
Creative writing in Spanish is something I've never done in any other class and it's amazing how much it can improve your writing ability in Spanish. Also, this class does a rather complete grammar review, but you review the grammar through exercises completed outside of class, meaning that classtime is not spent on grammar (something I appreciated!).
Spanish 50 is fun and engaging! You get to know your classmates really well, and get a lot of practice speaking and reading the language. Be prepared for lots of (creative) writing.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard -- I felt like I learned a lot, but more importantly, I had a ton of fun! When's the last time you were able to say that about, say, Life Sci?
Be ready to speak Spanish every day!!!
Spanish 50 is an excellent way to perfect your writing skills, and to practice speaking more. You will exit the course feeling far more comfortable expressing yourself in Spanish, even if you won't be fluent.
the TF is really important in this class
This is the most fun upper-level Spanish course you can take. It's wonderfully challenging, and your Spanish will improve in no time. The class reviews some grammar, but the focus is primarily literature, so you don't feel as though you are re-hashing out verb conjugations, as you may be inclined to feel in lower level courses.
I had a lot of fun with this class, but if you are not into theater, you might not find it so entertaining.
It feels a bit like high school Spanish, which may be nice to ease your course load but ultimately wastes a semester in which you could of really been learning Spanish instead of testing your creativity and ability to memorize.
Your Spanish will improve so much and you will have so much fun in the process!  One of the best courses at Harvard!
It is fun and does not require too much work.
Painless, enjoyable (assuming you get a good TF), excellent Spanish practice
This class was wonderful and does not require a lot of outside of class work.  The assignments were actually interesting and entertaining to complete.
It boasts a great preceptor, Veronica, and requires reading that includes some of the greatest pieces of modern Spanish literature and theatre.
This class is definitely worth taking.  It will focus on improving your speaking skills which is by far the most important part of learning a language in my opinion.
This class is great for improving oral and writing skills in Spanish--a great intermediate course bridging beginner Spanish courses and the higher level courses.  Correct amount of emphasis was placed on both oral skill and written skill.
Brush up on your performance skills. Act or fail.
Be prepared to work a lot but the very small section environment is great and you really are able to see how far you have come in your language development.
Best, most enjoyable Spanish class I've taken at Harvard, by far. Take this class if you are considering taking Spanish here.
Overall, it is a very good course. The plays and short stories you read are excellent, and you will learn a lot about the Spanish language, cultures of different Spanish-speaking countries, the political situations of countries in the Spanish-speaking world, and the literature you are reading. It is not a very stressful course, but the grading can be tough at times (the cutoff for an A according to the syllabus is a 95%), and the reading can feel a little bit rushed at times, though. However, there is not a very heavy workload. It is a great course to take however if you want to learn more about Spanish and feel that you have a pretty good background in Spanish coming in (I took four years of Spanish in high school and felt prepared).
This course is a good way to get better at Spanish. However, it is not that interesting or engaging, so the purpose of the course seemed to be only to learn more Spanish.
The class is very fun if you get very involved in it and actively participate.
Eugenio is great
This class will definitely help you improve your spanish speaking and writing skills. The subject matter is more fun than in other spanish classes, and the essay and project prompts allow for a lot of creativity. Be prepared for an abundance of group projects though that take a significant amount of time.
This course allows you to practice your speaking and writing and get a lot of feedback. There was not a lot of work outside of class and the tests were all group oral exams.
The course is really fun if you get into it. The performance element makes it more exciting than your typical Spanish class. Eugenio is really nice but not the most phenomenal TF in terms of teaching although he gives good feedback on compositions. Classes weren't super exciting when you are just discussing the readings but I would still recommend it.
It was an awesome experience and I really feel like it was a great ending to my spanish at Harvard.
This course isn't for everyone, since its style of examination and evaluation is quite unorthodox. However, the exposure to literary Spanish and complicated readings is undoubtedly valuable for the language learning process.
You're spanish will improve a lot, and it's an engaging/fun course.
Spanish 50 is a good course. There are a lot of group projects, so make sure to have a group that works well together. There isn't too much reading, and the grammar isn't bad. Humberto is a great TF!
If you want a really easy class with no pressure at all - take Spanish 50. How much you get out of this class depends mostly on you and though this is true for most courses, it is even more so for this one. You can do the bare minimum, get an A and not learn much. You can study hard, still get an A and learn a lot. Books are BORING. They are outdated, uninteresting and completely irrelevant to today's world, but are taught simply because someone in the Romance Languages department has decided that it is essential to be exposed to the sheer boredom of Lorca and co. With that said, however, you can choose not to do the readings and still do well. Unfortunately, that's what I had to do.
This is an amazing and fun Spanish class. If you have had a few years of Spanish under your belt and want a fun way to continue or fulfill the language requirement TAKE THIS CLASS!
Great class and fabulous instructor. Take this class!!! I loved it. The assignments are fun and manageable and my spanish has improved greatly! It'll make you love spanish.
This is a fantastic class. A lot of practice conversing, which is exactly what a student needs at this point in his/her development!
If you work hard, you can get a lot out of the class.
This course offers a fun and unique environment for practicing the Spanish language, but you can't be shy if you want to do well. The performance aspect is definitely prevalent in the course, and all three of the exams involve a live, dramatic skit in Spanish. However, if you are not afraid to act in front of your peers, this is a really fun class and a great way to improve your speaking and writing skills in Spanish.
This is a great step into upper level Spanish.
This class was awesome. The structure of the tests and assignments is great. Thenesoya is an absolutely amazing teacher. The reading material was definitely not my favorite though.
This class is a great way to keep up with your speaking and writing. You have to write a composition every week, which is sort of pain, but also helps you improve your writing. But overall, the class is not too difficult and fun.
This was probably my favorite Spanish class at Harvard. There were no written tests, which was a huge relief and made the class a lot more enjoyable. It put the emphasis on speaking and understanding, rather than writing, which is what I want in a Spanish class anyway. If you can take it with Humberto, DO IT. Best and nicest TF ever.
The assignments are very interesting. This is my favorite Spanish course at Harvard so far. I really feel like my Spanish improved!
Such a great class.  Andrew Grey is a fantastic tf who keeps the class chill but still engaging.  Do not necessarily recommend taking the class from the 11:30-1 slot, it's a time when the hour and half feels incredibly draggy due to hunger and midday sleepiness.
Get fascinated, and look forward to something more than just grammar and vocabulary.
If one truly wants to improve one's Spanish skills, this class can be a valuable step in doing so.
You definitely will have to get more comfortable with speaking, and you'll be held to higher standards than you were in your previous spanish classes.
This class is wonderful! There are no written exams, only performances; you actually bond with your classmates! Great reading material for the most part. Lots of writing (writing constitutes a large portion of your final grade.) Hope for Thenesoya as your TF-- she is phenomenal!
The class is great, and while the readings are not the most exciting in my opinion, will force you to think about the language and culture.
This involves more acting that you think
Fantastic Spanish class; very fun/creative exams/essays. Highly recommend. Only two days a week. Only work outside of class: readings (usually take an hour), essays (usually took me 3 hours), and workbook (you can easily do this the day before its due in about 2 hours).
Humberto is an awesome instructor. If you have him, you should definitely take it!
It was a lot more work than I bargained for. My prof cold called so I spent all class hoping I wouldn't get called for a question that I didn't know the answer to
SO MUCH FUN!
One of my favorite Spanish courses so far.
Know your spanish grammar because we don't go over much but your compositions are still graded pretty harshly based on grammar. Be superexpressive in your performance. Better overdramatic than not. Eugenio is very nice but his grading is hard.
Very fun class. Stress free because of the oral exams, and a great way to practice spanish before hitting a more advanced level!
The class is relatively easy, but I feel that my Spanish skills did not improve greatly.
This class is my favorite Spanish class I have taken thus far!
This is a great class where you will gain more familiarity with spanish through fun and entertaining exercises.
This is such a fun class! All you do is read and act stories out.  Make sure to keep up with the readings but don't worry about the exams because even though they're oral, they're with a group, so you're never alone and don't have to be nervous.
This was my favorite course this semester. The exams were actually kind of fun to do. My TF was awesome and I think my ability to understand spoken Spanish dramatically increased. However, I don't think my ability to converse improved much.
Great class and not that hard.  Take it.
It's a very fun Spanish class :)
This course is pretty much identical to AP Spanish. We covered a couple of classic Spanish works, analyzed the readings in class, and discussed a bit of Latin American history. If you've taken 4 years of Spanish at the high school level, you should seek a more challenging course.
It's a great class, especially since there is less emphasis on written grammar, and more emphasis on pronunciation, comprehension, and conversation.  Definitely would recommend.  Be mindful that there is a good amount of writing though since there is a composition due every week.
It's a great course to continue making yourself more fluent in the language.  However, weekly compositions and many group projects can make this class time-consuming and stressful.
The class has a very different focus than the other Spanish courses. If you feel comfortable with grammar, I would recommend this course.
It's a good language class, but if you are taking it because you want to study drama/poetry/short stories you will be pretty understimulated. There's not very much expected of you in terms of analytical thinking -- everything is just kind of handed to you.
Fun class!
This is really a fantastic Spanish course that you will enjoy if you apply yourself in terms of finishing weekly assignments and completing the readings.
Lo que consigues de esta clase depende de ti. Vale la pena tomar el tiempo para buscar las palabras que no conozcas, porque es una gran manera de aumentar el vocabulario, y eso se ve en los ensayos y tambin en tu soltura y manera de hablar. Cuando tienes ms vocabulario, te sentirs ms cmodo y disfrutars ms de la clase. Usualmente se puede conseguir prrrogas para los ensayos, as que si estas considerando tomarlo como quinta clase, puedes tomarla sin preocuparte demasiado de tener demasiado trabajo. Las lecturas son interesantes tambin. Si lo tomas, trata de tomarlo con Humberto; es un gran TF!
Do the readings and it will expand your knowledge of the spanish language and culture.
The works and authors explored in this class are really great, and the class is very largely discussion based. It seems that there is a range of Spanish speaking ability within the sections, but everyone is able to take something away from this class.
Its fun, and while my writing improved, and i learned a lot, I am not a much better speaker.
Make sure you have Cesar Perez as your teacher, and come into the class not afraid to make errors but rather ready to explore your theatrical side, learn about Spanish culture, and make friends!
There are great teaching staff available, and interesting readings that include folktales, nonfiction, plays and short stories.  The class really developed my writing and speaking tremendously.
this class is a lot of fun, and a great way to practice speaking. There is not a lot of weekly work, but there are oral group presentations, so be prepared for that. The literature we read was interesting, and i felt like i became so much more confident in my ability to speak spanish.
This is a difficult class, but it's fun!  The performance component of the class especially allows your creativity to be utilized!
This Spanish class is so fun! The examinations allow you to be really creative, but aren't necessarily cumulative of what you have learned and read in class. Humberto is a great TF, but keeps you on your toes, so always make sure to do the readings!
Really fun class that will definitely develop your speaking abilities in Spanish.
I got so much better at speaking this semester because of all the performances we do
This is the best spanish class that I have taken at Harvard! I really looked forward to going to it. It absolutely improved my spanish without being overwhelming. Humberto was an amazing TF and made the class very low-stress without making it lose meaning or be a joke at all. I learned a lot from this class and loved participating.
I was lucky that my TF was so enthusiastic... otherwise, this course would have completely gotten me down.  It was boring, disorganized, and kind of pointless.
Spanish 50 is wonderful! Sometimes the projects take a lot of time, but they're fun and creative and your efforts always turn out well. It's a collaborative class so you get to know your fellow students really well. Furthermore, the structure makes it a fun environment. It was my favorite part of the week.
Definitely try and get Andres!!! He's adorable and makes the class so much better. Be aware though that this class does require a fair amount of time outside class, so it is not the easy language class that I thought it would be. That being said, I felt like it was easier to get an A than in other language classes. I was glad I took this class over spanish 40, but just know that it is more work than you might think.
This is a really fun class that will improve your speaking skills.
This course is great for furthering Spanish language learning, although it focuses in oral practice and pronunciation and less on grammar.
Spanish 50 is a great class if youre looking for a fun and painless course! Great for people who have no acting experience -- andres makes you feel comfortable and really enjoy the class! Grading can be a bit arbitrary at times (the "exams" are performances) but its still a great course
Take this class if you want to get a citation. It is a fun class and not too much work. You should already have a firm understanding of grammar because the class does not focus on it. All you do is read plays and stories and talk about them. The exams are really fun and creative. Laura was very accessible. This class was awesome.
This class is a great way to sharpen your speaking, writing, and listening skills in Spanish while discussing and at times acting out parts of really engaging plays and stories.  If you dislike working on group projects you might want to avoid this course, but it'll be a really good way to figure out where the gaps in your knowledge are.  I was also introduced to some really influential Spanish and Latin American writers, and I was happy that we also learned about the contexts in which the different works were written.
Such a wonderful course.  Fun, engaging and worthwhile.  You will learn a ton of spanish and it is a lot of fun. Andres is an awesome TF if you can get into his section.
Homework per week takes less than 2 hours total. Class discussions can get a bit dry at times, but they do generate interesting insights into various pieces of literature.
Spanish 50 is a fun, informal class with lots of conversation and writing. An easy way to practice spanish.
This class is a lot of fun, especially if you enjoy acting or creative writing. You basically have free reign over what you want to write your assignments on which can make it fun as long as you approach everything with a sense of humor.
This class is a great way to practice both your verbal and written skills in Spanish. There was a heavy acting component to this class, which made it entertaining as well.
The course is low-key and enjoyable, but the readings can feel a bit random.
Great way to develop your Spanish skills in an unusual way. The acting component of the class was often silly and entertaining.
Spanish 50 is a fun class with lots of acting. I wouldn't say that I learned a ton, but I did certainly enjoy the class.
Spanish 50 is a really great and fun class. It's not too much work, the compositions and projects are all creative and not too stressful. It goes through stories that are usually interesting and fairly easy to read and does a nice review of grammar, which is helpful if you, like me, are a little rusty on your grammar since you last learned it in high school. Also, if you're lucky, you'll get Humberto as your TF. He's lots of fun and is a really chill and nice guy. Overall, whether you're looking to take a Spanish class to fulfill the language requirement, to get a citation/secondary, or to just keep up on your Spanish, I definitely recommend taking Spanish 50!
This is a great advanced Spanish language class. I would recommend it as long as someone feels comfortable speaking and understanding Spanish.
This has been one of my favorite Spanish courses at Harvard.  I feel like it really improved my writing and speaking skills, and I enjoyed the material.
This class is such a great way to become better at speaking Spanish rather than just writing and reading (as is taught in a few other courses).  Section is fun and the midterms are fun to prepare for and a great way to express yourself creatively.  The essays do take time, however, they are rather open ended and easy to complete.
a lot of writing and reading, not a lot of grammar practice
This class is so much fun but also really helps you improve your Spanish. It's especially fun if you are outgoing and lighthearted, considering most of the projects include acting in front of the class. Humberto is an amazing teacher with a great personality who makes coming to class so enjoyable!
This class is really fun! The exams are stress-free because they are all done in groups and are performance-based, but do not require any memorization. You read some very interesting and important Spanish literature and plays. The atmosphere of the class is very casual, as you spend most of the time simply discussing what was read. The course is a great way to keep up your practice with Spanish without adding much work to your courseload.
Spanish 50 has been my favorite Spanish class so far. I really feel like my Spanish improved massively! The oral exams (really just acting and improvising and not stressful), combined with the amount of talking in class, made me much more comfortable speaking. Fun and rewarding. Definitely depends on how good the TF is, though: get Andres! He is amazing.
This class is great for students who are fluent in Spanish. While there were a lot of essays to write and books to read, it definitely helped me to be able to better express myself in Spanish and give presentations in Spanish as well.
I hands down loved this class.  It's a nice break from problem sets and essays, because the assignments are creative compositions with a different theme each week--it really allows you to do what you want, so long as it's in spanish.  There is a lot of discussion, which is to be expected, but its a very comfortable environment and entertaining as well!
Be in Veronica's class! She is absolutely spectacular. She has so much enthusiasm, leads great conversations, never stresses you out, grades fairly, is always accessible outside of class, and adds loads of variety during class. The three oral exams are all performance based and fun, and the seven essays are all 2 pages double spaced and creative, so enjoyable to write. I'm not sure my spanish improved significantly, but I had a great experience in this class.
The course is not the most enjoyable, but it is very beneficial if you want to improve on reading and writing. The grammar aspect which it teaches is absolutely crucial in understanding how to utilize Spanish.My grammar skills definitely improved. If one is looking to improve speaking Spanish, then this is not the course at all. But if looking to improve on reading and writing and getting rid of tiny grammatical flaws you make while speaking, then this is the course to take.
not much to say here, if you want to get a citation in spanish you gotta take this class. pretty painless.
Spanish 50 was a decent course, but it felt like Spanish 30 "2.0". We only read 2 plays, and spent the majority of class time and essay writing going over the short stories. I didn't feel like my grammar improved because of this however. Alba is a great TF to get if you do take this course. On another note, remember that there are weekly 2-3 page papers, which doesn't sound like a lot until you actually take the course. If you are a freshman, I HIGHLY recommend Spanish 40 (which focuses on film) and then 50 (which "focuses" on dramatic plays) in the spring.
This class is amazing - the readings are thoughtful, well-written, and discuss interesting subject matter (can be a little dark), the compositions allow you to be creative and are fun, you are in a small setting and work with your peers frequently, so you get a sense of your fellow classmates as well.  This was my favorite class this semester.
This class is great! Veronica is such a wonderful teacher. I always wanted to come to class, and found the work load very manageable. If you enjoy reading plays and if you're not afraid to get up and act at times, you should take this class!
This class is so fun! As long as you are okay with being outgoing and don't worry about embarrassing yourself, its a really fun experience. Veronica is awesome, she's super enthusiastic and helpful and loves teaching.
I felt that this class did not necessarily improve my fluency although it probably did improve my pronunciation.  Your enjoyment of this class depends heavily on your TF.
It's called Writing and Performance for a reason--it lives up to the course name very well. It's the best thing you could hope for, provided you're interested in working on those two components.
Recommend if you are interested in furthering your literary ability in Spanish. If you are more interested in improving your conversational Spanish, then this class is probably not for you.
If you like Spanish, this class will make you love it.
THIS CLASS IS INCREDIBLY FUN AND ENTERTAINING! Veronica is a star, and my spanish really improved!
Most fun Spanish class ever.
Take this class, and MAKE SURE YOU GET VERONICA! Not to put down other section leaders, I'm sure they're great too...but Veronica was particularly enjoyable to work with! Her enthusiasm is simply contagious. But actually.
It is a fun class that really adds confidence to your speaking ability.
This class has a very moderate workload.  As long as you read the texts, spend the proper amount of time writing your compositions, and come to class prepared to say something, this class will be great for you.
Great class to advance your acting skills while practicing Spanish.
Overall, this class was enjoyable and interesting. The readings are great, the teaching is helpful and insightful, and it's nice to be able to speak Spanish for 3 hours a week. However, because there are no tests or quizzes that force you to learn vocab/grammar, be prepared to memorize it on your own if you want to see a significant improvement in your Spanish.
The TF makes a huge difference. Veronica was amazing and that made for a great class.
Fun class to take, but a lot of work to be done throughout the semester. Not recommended for seniors.
Veronica is the best tf imaginable. The course was great because she was great. I can't speak for the other tfs, but I think that if the class drags even a bit, that 1.5 hour slot can feel very long.
You should really have high intermediate to advanced Spanish language abilities. You need to be able to comprehend the teacher speaking at a normal Spanish-speaking pace, process, and speak in Spanish on command, given there is often cold-calling. Given that, out of all the higher level Spanish classes, this was a very fun one! You read thought-provoking stories and the orals are fun- i.e. talk shows and plays. If you are choosing between Spanish 30, 40, or 50, take 50!!
This is perhaps one of the best classes I've ever taken, and our professor Veronica was similarly one of the best teachers I've ever had. I never used to be confident speaking Spanish, but by taking me out of my comfort zone, this class has made me entirely comfortable not only speaking Spanish, but with public speaking in general. My education would have been severely lacking without this class.
The course is great in improving your Spanish in terms of speaking and performing in front of an audience. The course could have been a bit better in terms of structure in that it could have clarified how it wanted students to write and perform for assignments. I often felt confused on what was expected of us and would feel the need to change something in the last minute since my understanding of the assignments changed. The literature and the topics discussed are great. At the same time, there is not that much discussion of grammar and its uses so it is highly recommend having a strong foundation in grammar since the reviews are a bit superficial compared to the discussions of the literature.
This class is a great way to practice your spanish and gain a lot of fluency in a fun, interactive way. It's a really dynamic class and the professor makes sure you get the most out of it.
The class really helped me improve my speaking skills in a fun, creative way.
veronica made this course an unbelievable experience. her enthusiasm and energy were contagious. each one of us was excited to come to class every day.
The assignments are interesting, and the exams are oral presentations which are pretty fun and low-stress.
I loved this class, but I am a high-energy performance-geared kind of person. If you do not enjoy performance at all, do not take this course.
Spanish 50 is a lot more work than Spanish 30 or 40, so be prepared to devote some time to it.
Do it if you like spanish.  Especially if you're into theatre.  There are no written examinations, just skits and stuff.  Very easy.  Do it!
You get so much out of the course by coming prepared to have conversations about the readings.
This class is great! The instructor is very enthusiastic and every class is different. No experience in performance is necessary to have fun in this class.
This class is good practice for speaking, reading, and writing in Spanish.  The workload isn't bad, some grammar work, weekly readings, and a 2 page paper due each Thursday.  Can feel a bit like a high school Spanish class, but once again, is a good way to practice your Spanish.  My TA was great and the others that I met seemed very enthusiastic also.  Nice small classes of 15 people!
This class is very helpful in improving speaking abilities; it also provides students with an interesting perspective on Spanish playwrights and literature that serves as a good foundation for students seeking to learn about Spanish culture.
This class is a lot of fun. If you're like I was, and you have a solid base in grammar and vocabulary from high school or previous college classes but don't have a lot of confidence or fluency in the spoken language, you should take this class. Don't expect to learn anything new (or do much reviewing, really) in terms of grammar, but do be expected to get up in front of the class and perform in the language. Overall, a great class.
This class turns learning Spanish into a creative and often inspiring process. Essays and group assignments are flexible and open-ended, and I found the final exam, which involved acting out scenes from a play we read, to be a wonderful break from other tests and papers I had to complete at the end of the term. Readings are interesting and will leave you with a basic understanding of some of the most influential Spanish writers. I would recommend making use of office hours for the writing assignments -- Prof. Gutierrez makes herself accessible and is always willing to help.
There is consistent work involved, but it is pretty relaxed an interesting.
This class is a whole lot of fun. However, my teacher, Veronica, is leaving and I'm not sure about the other teachers.
Great course if you are considering a continuation of spanish study here. Extremely fun, not too much work, and an overall great section atmosphere.
It is really fun and will get you out of your comfort zone with acting/performing
This class is a great opportunity to practice Spanish speaking skills and read great Spanish works.
Fun, enjoyable class. Be prepared to write a composition weekly, but the reading materials and exams are painless and class time is spent discussing the readings greater in depth and acting out scenes from them.
This is a good course for improving your oral Spanish skills.  You're probably not going to have a huge breakthrough, but it's still a solid class.  Also, Veronica is hilarious; definitely try to get her as your teacher.
This course is primarily an acting/performing and creative writing class. It was an amazingly fun and interesting class in general, which created a great environment for learning Spanish. Veronica Ballesteros is the best TF I have ever had. She is the best.
This class is a blast and improves your Spanish. However, if you do not like theater/performance that much, you will have to put up with a lot of it.
This course is not as well organized as 30 or 40. The teaching staff is good but there doesn't seem to be a theme tying the readings together and the compositions were way more stressful than they needed to be because of vague instructions.
It's really fun, easy, and enjoyable. The reading materials are awesome, and I feel like my writing as well as speaking skills definitely improved throughout the semester.
Spanish 50 is a fun and engaging way to improve your Spanish through creative assignments and some really fantastic readings, especially the various short stories. If you're looking for an emphasis on grammar, however, this may not be the course for you (depending on your instructor). It's much more about using the Spanish you have, even if it's imperfect.
Get out of your comfort zone and act!
The emphasis on the spanish theater is fun. Exams are all performances which is a nice change. There is a composition each week which is doable. Try to get a native-speaker as a TF so you are actually challenged/stimulated in class.
It's very different than the previous spanish classes.
This course is a lot of fun if you enjoy acting. The participation was low-pressure, but some of the assignment were fairly creative. Veronica was a wonderful TF.
Veronica is the most amazing teacher EVER! Her class is the best 3 hours of the week. So much fun and such a great way to improve your Spanish through theater performance and writing. Just be prepared to get rid of your stage fright because you will be acting & improv-ing from time to time!
This class was amazing. I think that the TF makes or breaks the course and I had an amazing TF.
It's a great class - I definitely recommend it to anyone with an interest in theater and spanish, or someone who just wants a spanish class with great section discussion and fun assignments.
This course will definitely improve your Spanish skills and is fun to boot!
This class is very fun and Veronica is probably the best teacher for it. She makes the class very fun and interesting.
Adrianna is a fantastic spanish teacher. I would take a class with her no matter the subject matter.
it's pretty boring.
Definitely speak up as often as you can
This class is a fun way to continue learning Spanish! Rather than focusing on grammar, you will read and perform plays, do a variety of response papers, do readings, etc. The workload is easier because it is enjoyable. It is also nice that the final grade is made up of a variety of different components, and the three midterms are all oral presentations/performances. Would definitely recommend!
Do a good job with the compositions- take your time and have fun with it- there is a lot of room for creativity.
I would tell them to take it if they need more practice speaking and intoning. This course is very good with spoken activity. However, if the student does not need that or grammar help, I would advocate a higher level.
It's a fun class!
The readings for this class are very enjoyable and worthwhile. The lectures can be a bit boring because they're not incredibly interactive. If you're interested in Spanish literature and also want to improve your speaking skills, this class might be a good fit.
If you are at all interested in Spanish theater, this class is for you.  A fun way to immerse yourself in Spanish culture.
participate in class, it will help improve speaking skills, don't be afraid to be wrong
This class is a lot of fun! The reading selections are really interesting, and the professor added a lot of contextual information that I would not have otherwise been aware of.
Just take it - I looked forward to this class no matter how little sleep I got.
Take it! I took Spanish 50 fall of freshman year, and it was my favorite course. The quality of instruction is fantastic. It's like a creative writing course in Spanish, and it will definitely improve your writing skills.
This class is so much fun, and really worthwhile if you're interested in speaking Spanish. Veronica is the best TF!
This is a great course if you are looking for a pretty easy, low-stress Spanish course. There are a lot of assignments, but they aren't very difficult. The class asks for some acting and creativity, so if you aren't interested in those things, you might not enjoy it.
This class definitely ranked among the best classes I have taken in my life. I found the writing assignments, readings, class discussions, and projects very interesting! This course really helped me to develop my Spanish language skills, and I would definitely recommend it without a second thought!
This is a good class, but it's heavy emphasis on performance may make some students uncomfortable.
This class was neither interesting nor challenging. Though the two plays we focused on were interesting, I think my Spanish got worse over the course of the semester, as I was not challenged to use it in any original ways. Performing was minimal. Though the exams were easy and fun (usually performing monologues or short skits) the class doesn't do much to improve Spanish speaking or writing skills.
The many essays you must write for this course can be a great means of improving writing skills.  Furthermore, the class discussions and presentations can be a great way to improve comfort level speaking.  However, what you put into this class is what you will take away.  Take advantage of the many chances given by assignments and discussions to get feedback and help with your language ability.
The readings and themes discussed were so interesting! The class size was perfect and the other students were enthusiastic about Spanish. Definitely my favorite course of the semester. The projects are fun and I could feel my abilities improving.
This is probably the best of all the Spanish classes I've taken at Harvard.  The work load, however, is not light.  The work itself is not too hard, there are just a lot of little assignments you have to keep up with at the same time.  I've heard great things about all the TFs for this class, but here's a plug for Paul and definitely stick with him if you can!
Loved this class.
This is a fun and easy way to take another Spanish class. Originally, I was a little nervous about moving up to 50 because it was moving into more literature classes, but I think it's a great class because we don't analyze the stories that in depth and they're interesting to read. The classes could be kind of long with the hour and a half format, but most of the time would fly by because we were having a lot of fun. Also, Cesar is great. His Spanish is very easy to understand and makes a lot of jokes to liven up the class.
Easy, fun course.  Designed in much the same way as Spanish 30 and 40, and at the same difficulty level, if not at a lower level.  Most of the exams involve acting, just try to be very dramatic during the scenes.
Your experience in this course depends a lot on your TF, mine was terrific and I loved it.
This is a great opportunity to improve your writing and reading in Spanish.
It is a really fun class!
This class was excellent! All of my high school Spanish experiences were awful to say the least. This class and especially Paul Politte restored my faith in language classes! You should definitely take it - the texts are great, the teachers know what they're doing, and the course is well organized (online material/syllabus/handouts, etc.) I immensely improved my listening skills, grammar, writing abilities, vocabulary, and ability to speak impromptu in class. It was a great classroom environment and promoted/provoked outside of class learning as well. I could not recommend this class more highly.
This is a great class. You learn a great deal about the literature, history, countries, and authors that the readings touch upon. Also you can be extremely creative in the assignments and are free to find your own voice in writing and speaking in Spanish.
It is a very enjoyable course with a great teacher! Expect to do a lot of speaking and presenting in class.
Don't take this course (unless they revamp it again), it was a big disappointment from all the great good things I heard about it from previous years.
This is a very good class. It is based in writing, discussions and performances through group activities. It asks that you write about two pages every week or two and that you are an active part of the class. Exams are through performances - a monologue, a talk-show, scenes of a play - which makes them controllable and based more in the ability to speak clearly in Spanish than in memorization. The only part of this class that was frustrating was the emphasis on group projects.
This class is a must-take for anybody who wants a Spanish citation. The tests are interesting, and the class will push you in a good way. I'm a big fan.
This class is both informative and fun.
Spanish 50 was very engaging and rewarding- the emphasis on oral practice greatly helps one's speaking skills and with the added component of manageable and enjoyable writing assignments, the course truly challenges one's language skills in the most enjoyable way.  You are pushed to not be shy or self-confident about your speaking skills, which is extremely important in learning a language. I absolutely loved going to class. My friend and I would leave class every day smiling because it was so enjoyable and we adored our professor- VERONICA- if you can, TRY REALLY HARD to get her- she is amazing, kind, and makes the class very exciting and entertaining!
Be prepared to do a lot of acting and speaking Spanish on the spot. Assignments are generally simple, but take a lot of time. For instance, in a typical week, I would have to write a composition, do grammar exercises from a workbook, and read 50-60 pages from a Spanish play.
A very fun course. Not stressful and the work in it was enjoyable.
You get to read plays, act, and complete creative, open-ended assignments.  A very enjoyable, manageable class that will improve your Spanish.  Carmen is a wonderful TF.
This class is so much fun! You'll definitely improve your speaking and writing abilities, and the reading assignments are really worthwhile too.
The class is pretty good and helps a lot with oral skills, but be wary that it is much more work than Spanish 40. Also the dependence upon group projects can sometimes be pretty annoying. However, the reading pieces are very good and expanded my knowledge of latin american literature
Get a good TF, good class, not a lot of work though sometimes assignments creep up on you.
If you are looking for a creative way to exercise and hone your language skills, this course is a fantastic way to do so!
This class was the easiest Spanish class i have taken so far. It was interesting and fun and included possibilities for creativity ( LOTS OF CREATIVITY).
Spanish 50 is very acting-intensive but is fun and enjoyable.
great class! really fun; great preceptor; fun assignments
If you are deciding whether or not to take this class, keep in mind that this class has a huge emphasis on your speaking skills. None of your exams are written. Grammar exercises are due every week, but we do not spend class time going over grammar rules. The exercises are simply meant to be a review. The class overall is fun and low stress. Take it!
The class was great if you like learning Spanish in a group setting and working with teammates.  If facilitated lots of discussion but also was heavily reliant on group mates participation.
Fun class :) be creative!
It really gives a good interactive approach to studying Spanish.
This course, despite saying that it is performance based, it's not. You need to be good at writing or at least prepared to work on it.
This class is so much fun, and useful. I learned a lot about pronunciation, got to work on my grammar, and had exams that were actually fun.
This class is excellent!  Veronica helped me with improving my writing, and I've made tremendous strides since the beginning of the semester.  The feedback I received was always to-the-point and constructive, two things that helped me hone my skills.  I have nothing but praise for this course - it's an excellent course.
There is a lot of writing.
This class is a great opportunity to hone your Spanish skills.  Through performance, you'll learn grammar, pronunciation, and confidence speaking the language!Oh, and ask to be in Veronica's section.  She's great.
There is a big performance component for this course, so be prepared to do a lot of speaking and acting in front of the class.
Paul's a superb TF. The course is fun and not excessively demanding. Exams aren't traditional (monologue delivery, role-playing talk show, theatrical scene) and are fun.
It's fun and allows you to be creative.
Lots of writing assignments and the workload sometimes starts to feel like a drag, but not too painful of a class.
This class is a lot of fun with a good selection of readings, relatively minimal work, and very innovative and engaging assignments and assessments.  Often we don't delve into the readings too deeply though, and that can be frustrating.  The class is also very rooted in small group projects and discussion, so make sure you're comfortable completing substantial work with other students before signing up.
Be prepared because this class definitely has more work than the lower level Spanish classes.
Take this course, especially if you love acting in Spanish!
This is a good Spanish class. However, I found that after taking Spanish 40, I felt it was a lot the same. If Spanish 40 was moderately easy, or even average, I would recommend going ahead to a higher level of Spanish.
This class was so much fun!  I really enjoyed all of the readings and our in class discussions.  The assignments were not unnecessarily challenging, and my TF was really nice!
Even if you don't love Spanish, this class will be good. Any language class will have some (read: a lot of) busy work, but this class has less and is less boring than some others. You get up and about, and focus on important things like speaking and comprehension and confidence, rather than going over the imperfect subjunctive yet again. It's probably the best Spanish class I've ever taken.
This class will be pretty lame if you do not get a good TF
I loved this class! Paul was amazing! It is a lot of day-to-day work with readings and compositions, but well worth it. You get a lot of practice speaking and writing. I felt like I improved my spanish a lot. It is also a really fun class in the sense that the exams are collaborative and through these and discussion during class you get to know your classmates.
The course is very different from Spanish 40. Students spend most of class speaking to each other about the assigned readings. All of the exams are oral exams or theatrical.
Such a fun class! You get a chance to perform and create your own scenes in Spanish, and there are wonderful instructors!
This class was incredible. Veronica is such an inspirational TF and I loved going to her class. This was hands down my favorite class this semester. I've really grown confident in my ability to speak spanish.
Very fun class! I would skip 40 and go from 30 to 50 (or start at 50)!
Pretty enjoyable and not too hard. Make sure you get a good TF and you're golden. (Carmen is AMAZING.)
As far as Spanish classes go, this is a good one. Take it!
This class can be a lot of fun and very beneficial for your Spanish skills, but do not take it unless you want fine-tuning of these skills.  This class is very specialized in that it focuses on the creative aspect of the Spanish language.
This is a fun interactive class with relatively little work. The compositions were fun to write.
Fun, relatively painless class.
Great language class - interesting discussion and assignments. Cinthya is great!
This class was great.  Although section sometimes felt a little long, generally the conversations were engaging, the paper topics were interesting and not too difficult, and the exams (all oral and performance based) were always really fun.  My communication skills improved A LOT and I feel so much more comfortable speaking in Spanish.
This class will keep your Spanish from not getting rusty.  You will not take leaps and bounds.
It's a really fun course that won't kill you.
AWESOME course!!! Enjoyable and relaxed classroom environment with interesting reading materials and fun, interactive oral exams. Highly recommended - the TFs are knowledgeable and easy-going and truly want you to improve your Spanish.
This course is phenomenal. I thought that the performance aspect was terrific because it enabled me to step out of my comfort zone and gave me the chance to entertain my classmates. I was also very often entertained by my classmates in seeing how they chose to act different scenes. I think that the course really fosters an unbelievable community feel because everyone helps each other grow and learn together and it is so supportive. I would recommend this course for the introvert, because it will give you a chance to perform more and feel more comfortable! However, this course is a lot of work--from the writing compositions to the reading plays to the grammar exercises to the recording audio every week.
Get Veronica!
This is a really great class to increase fluency and confidence with Spanish. Be prepared to participate and speak up; the more you engage in some of the sillier aspects of the class (acting, etc) the more you learn. It's a fantastic Spanish class with a lot of creative elements and a good reading selection.
Work on your accent before this class!
It's a lot of fun and you really do learn a lot.
This class is manageable and a lot of fun.  Take it.
A great way to work on your speaking and writing at the same time.  Don't be scared off by all the assignments...two page papers don't take long.
It's difficult to explain why, but I just didn't find this class as engaging as the other Spanish classes I've taken at Harvard. I'm not sure if it's just that the readings weren't as interesting, or what. If you want to continue improving your writing and speaking skills, this class will definitely help, but I would suggest checking out Spanish 60 or another equivalent class as well, just to see what your other options are.
This course is best for people who are comfortable writing creatively and speaking and performing in public.  It is a wonderful class for people who are intered in both Spanish and the arts, particularly drama, but is not good for people who are shy or who strongly prefer analytical writing.
This is the best Spanish course I have taken. A decent amount of work, but the work is actually quite fun. Put effort into the course and you will learn a lot, and really enjoy yourself and greatly improve your Spanish, especially in the areas of writing and pronunciation. I cannot stress enough that the course is really fun, and not terribly difficult.
Take it with Veronica, she is without a doubt one of the best instructors Harvard has to offer.
Lots of fun, not a very difficult course
A great class if you're interested in improving your speaking skills in Spanish!
Rebeca is an awesome TF!  This class was great.  There were lots of writing assignments, but I felt my writing and speaking both improved a lot.
An excellent course--you get to speak in Spanish regularly in a creative environment, without having to spend too much time on grammar or busywork. The readings are short and interesting. Try to get in Veronica's section--she's the best!
This is a great, really fun class and a good chance to practice Spanish. Highly recommended!
This class is really fun. The more you participate the more you will enjoy it. Definitely take this! You should be confident about speaking up and not mind looking a little stupid in front of the class, like acting out skits or making up stories (this happens a lot). Everyone in our class got to know each other really well and it turned out to be a great experience.
This is probably the best Spanish class I have taken because of it's discussion oriented nature. It has also improved my verbal skills in addition to my writing skills.
What an enjoyable experience with Spanish! Truly a wonderful class. Take it. A great way to improve speaking through in class discussions and writing through the many composiciones.
This course is very useful for improving spanish speaking skills, and offers a lot of interesting discussion of latin american literature and culture. However, it can feel tedious, especially because of the 1 1/2 hour blocks.
Generally fun class, moderate amount of work -- very frequent assignments (esp. 2-page compositions almost every week), but not overly difficult. Alba is a great section leader. You will not get too much grammar practice (only through homework assignments and feedback on your compositions).
Spanish 50 is awesome! It's not very difficult and your Spanish will improve a lot... my class became super close and even though the class was 1 1/2 hours, it flew by every time. Take it!
It is a fantastic class to take if you want to improve your writing and speaking. It is a lot of fun and you can learn a lot if you put time into it.
Great spanish course
This is a great course if you want to improve your Spanish writing and speaking.
I enjoyed this class, but it was a ton of work.  I'm happy that I learned a lot, but I had to put in the effort.
Make sure it is the right level for you. It is a wonderful class!
It's a great class that's not that work heavy but where you still learn a lot.
This class is really the only class in the Spanish department of those I've taken (Cb, 30, & 40) that really emphasizes building oral communication skills.  You will have to speak in class, perform in plays, record audioblogs, and often read aloud until you tire of hearing your own voice.  My Spanish has improved by leaps and bounds... plus you get exposure to a lot of different interesting readings.
TAKE IT IF YOU LOVE SPANISH!
Fun way to get better at speaking Spanish!
This is a really great class; the readings are thought-provoking and vocab-building, and the in-class discussion is interesting. It's not too much of a workload at all, and the time commitment is minimal.
Apply yourself a little! You could probably get away with very little effort if you are proficient in Spanish, but putting in more effort makes the class more fun for you.
Spanish 50 was a huge step up from Spanish 40, I felt. I would recommend this class, just with the reservation that it is a great deal more work and a great deal more difficult than its prerequisites.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Seriously. One of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. It was so fun, it was easy to forget that it was a class. And you should definitely pray for Veronica. I am not exaggerating when I say that she changed my life. She is a goddess.
This is an exciting, fun course, and a great way to build your Spanish skill-set, in terms of speaking and writing.
I enjoyed the class a lot; however, I must admit that the twice a week 1.5 hour class meeting sometimes felt a bit long, only because I think that for languages it is more effective to meet more frequently for shorter periods of time.
It'sa great spanish class! You will improve your spanish by speaking a lot in class and writing a lot of papers at home
It's all about plays.  I don;t like plays
This class is great.  It's fun and not very demanding and it really improves your Spanish, written and spoken.
very fun class. not too hard. you get to actually act out plays written in Spanish.
This class is AMAZING.  I loved every minute of it.  It really helped to improve my speaking and reading abilities, and the acting component made it great. Take this class!
This class is great for anyone who enjoys reading in spanish and who wants to learn more about the culture through literature.
Good discussions in spanish.
If you've taken and done fairly well in Spanish 40, this class is much more difficult.  They are very similar in structure.  The reading materials are interesting and the essays/creative writing assignments can be fun as well.
This class was a joy to go to!
It is a good class.
This course gives you an opportunity to have fun and let your theatrical side out; if you are particularly hesitant about participating, it is not the class for you.
If you speak Spanish well, this is a great course to take. Grading is fair and the TFs make an effort to improve your writing and speaking. The assignments are not time consuming and the readings are enjoyable. This is an awesome elective.
Don't be afraid to be creative with your dramatic readings and writings. It makes the class infinitely better for everyone involved.
Spanish 50 is much, much better than Spanish 40. Laura was an amazing TF- caring, understanding, and helpful. The course has really improved my knowledge of grammar and usage. The performance aspect of the course is a nice break from the monotony of reading texts that is typical of most academic language courses.
A fun class to take and improve Spanish speaking/writing ability.
If you have to take this course for the requirement, it is easy and relatively painless, although pretty boring.  The performance exams are great, though, and really straight forward/fun.
Spanish 50 (at least with Humberto) is a fun, lightweight class to maintain and build on your Spanish. A great first Spanish class to take to refresh before enrolling in the higher level ones.
Really take time to look over the helpful comments that are provided on your writing.
This class was a lot of fun and it really helped me dive back into learning Spanish after taking an extended break. It did not go to fast but it did not let me stay too comfortable either.
A great class - if you can skip Spanish 40 and go right to to Spanish 50. There is very little homework and section is enjoyable.
Definitely get a head start on the readings, in case the Spanish is more difficult than expected.
Going into it, I hated doing group projects in spanish. It can be a huge pain but this class was actually really good.  The group oral exams were awesome and easy to do. Take this class.
Spanish 50 is a very fun way to study Spanish. The plays and readings are interesting and the sections are relaxed/creative.
Definitely a lot of more work than is 30. Not a strong grammar review course. I never used the LRC and that probably would have helped. You definitively get out what you put in! However, the course material really helps you engage with topics related to class, gender, and sexuality. Open-ish essay prompts allow you to shape the course in whatever way you want!
It really depends on who your TF is.
To my absolute shock, I really enjoyed this course. I had to take it, but was really dreading the theater and drama aspect of the class (that is not my cup of tea at all). I actually ended up enjoying the plays and the exam format (really low-stress presentations and scene interpretations). The eight compositions in addition to grammar feels like an excessive amount of busywork, but it is manageable.  This is the best Spanish class I've taken at Harvard and the one that contributed most to my ability to speak and read the language.
This course is manageable, not too time-consuming, and highly interesting.
I mean it's pretty much a requirement after Spanish 40, but it's just an ok class. I had a great TF, so that helped a lot, but there's very little theater and a lot of the usual literary analysis. There also a fair amount of work involved with 7 2-page compositions, a final paper, 3 orals, a podcast and grammar exercises every week. But its decently easy. Very similar to a generic high school English class.
If you are looking for a class that will improve your Spanish speaking, listening and writing skills, that doesn't have a huge work load and is actually kinda fun this is the class for you.
You will end up doing a lot of writing for this class, but other than that the coursework isn't that strenuous and you will enjoy most of the material.  The majority of the culture stuff that you learn will be interesting.
This class's difficulty depends on how much Spanish you know. Humberto (the TF I had) was very, very accommodating and tried to explain everything really well for everybody. The plays you'll read in the class are excellent, and the assignments are honestly minimal.
Easy class, very lax.  Go into the plays and tests with a positive attitude and go all out.  Make it fun.
This class is wonderful. It is a really fun way to learn Spanish as it allows you to be creative and put on theatrical performances in Spanish. I would definitely recommend this class to anyone who loves Spanish and performance.
This class is one of the more enjoyable Spanish classes I've taken at Harvard. The amount of work should not be underestimated, but is completely manageable.
It's a good course, but it's nothing special. A lot depends on who your actual teacher is.
I loved this class as a chance to improve my speaking skills in Spanish. All of the exams were group-based speaking projects, so make sure you can work well with your group. Humberto was great! I had a small section, which made for a nice environment. It was a completely non-stressful but productive experience!
relatively easy class, be prepared to participate and do some crazy acting/performing
A lot of papers.
Spanish 50 is an exciting and fun way to improve your Spanish and learn about culture in different Hispanic countries.
Make sure you get Andrs Sanin's section-- he's the best!
This class was easy, but not really challenging and I didn't think it helped me to become a better spanish speaker. Spanish 40 was a lot better, and if you can I would skip to spanish 60 after that course or take the spanish in the community class.
This class is so much fun! You learn Spanish by reenacting awesome scenes from the plays we read in class! There is ample opportunity to speak, read and write, and the materials are really entertaining. Lots of opportunity to be creative for class assignments, which is really great!
So much better than Spanish 40! Take this-- the readings are actually really great literature and the assignments are creative and not too taxing. You'll be forced to speak Spanish and get in touch with your dramatic side...
Easier than Spanish 40 but not as fun
GET READY TO HAVE SOME FUN!!  Don't be shy when it comes to the acting component: embrace and enjoy it!
It's actually quite a bit of work. Took it as a 5th class and it wasn't a breeze. That being said, it did help me with my Spanish a lot. Also, this is the first lit. class I've taken since expos and I actually really enjoyed it.
This class is a lot of reading and writing! You will really improve your writing in this course and come across some very interesting stories.
This course is a lot of fun and there are no formal written exams.  Instead, you act out acts from plays or read your compositions.  It's really low-stress, and a great way to finish a language citation.
The most fun Spanish class I have taken so far! The exams (all performative or writing pieces) are no-stress and fun to prepare with class mates.
Do as much of the reading as you can, and don't wait until the last minute for your projects.  I'm still not sure how harshly ours were graded, but we would have gotten a lot more out of them had we spent more time on making them quality work.  It's easy to blow off assignments as practice or silly things since they're designed to be fun.  Resist that temptation!  It's an easy class to keep up with and if you dig in it will really improve your fluency and understanding.
TAKE IT, PERFORM
Pretty easy class- kind of standard Spanish class from what I can tell here. Depends on the TF you get though. Doesn't take too much work during the week. Good way to have a little bit of Spanish every week, but unfortunately not enough speaking time (2x a week) to up your fluency or pronunciation. Some of the readings are much better than others.
This class is a relaxing way to practice your Spanish. That said, it won't dramatically improve your foreign language skills. Also N.B.--We read some very good texts (e.g. La casa de Bernarda Alba, La muerte y la doncella), but I found our discussion of them lacking at times. Nonetheless, if you're looking to maintain your Spanish skills in a low-stress environment, take it.
Great class! You learn a lot and also no written exams, just oral exams :)
Great class, especially if you get Andres.
Great class, but be prepared for GROUP PROJECTS galore.
This is a fun and engaging course that requires your participation.
I feel like the class really depends on your instructor and could potentially be very good and sometimes be pretty dull.
Great class! It's a little intimidating if you aren't comfortable speaking, but that's why you need to take it, then, right? Definitely a fun dynamic, and a good break from other classes. The response papers do pile up, but they're manageable enough. Exams are so much more fun, since they're creative performance pieces.
This class was incredible.  It was fun, engaging, and informative.  Andres was the best TF I've had in a class at Harvard.  He obviously cared a lot, and made the class upbeat and creative.  People lingered after class because it was so fun no one wanted to leave.  It wasn't too challenging academically, but even so I do feel like I learned a decent amount.  I would highly highly recommend it.
I have had the most fun in this class of any class I've taken thus far, while getting more comfortable using the spanish language. It was a great experience, and I highly recommend it! Andres was an amazing, hilarious TF with so much insight into the spanish world.
This class will be fun.  You will read some great pieces and interact with great material in ways that will challenge and improve your language skills.
Not a lot of work and depending on the people you get in your class, can be a great class. We always had a ton of fun. Depends on your TF and classmates, switch early if you're unhappy.
This class is extremely fun, and the material is pretty interesting once you interpret it and understand it.  The compositions may seem like a lot, but the fact that the exams are performances was awesome and fun.  A lot of group work in this class, which was great too.  Definitely recommend.
If you feel pretty confident about your Spanish, but aren't quite ready to call yourself fluent, this is a great course.
If you want to improve your spanish conversational skills this is the best class for it.
This is a fun and easy class, but if you're looking for a class to improve your Spanish grammar, I would not recommend it.
This class is fabulous. Always fun, lively, and engaging, while learning a lot about the language and its many cultures. The significant acting component is a fantastic way to delve into the language in a creative and confident way. The class allows for a lot of individual agency, compared to Spanish 30 or 40. And if Andres is your TF, you are in for an amazing semester.
This course is pretty much all fun, all the time. Plus it reinforces language skills! What more could be asked for?
Take it! Great speaking and writing practice, and a fun way to check off a Spanish citation requirement.
One of the better Spanish classes I've taken. It's nice to not have to worry about written tests. The acting assignments really help you improve your Spanish inflection, which is often overlooked in other Spanish classes, I feel. Try to get Humberto as a TF--he's really helpful and super entertaining!
This class is so much fun!  You barely know that you are improving your Spanish skills while you are enjoying it.  I thought it was daunting at first, especially because there are a lot of writing assignments and the exams are performance exams.  The essays actually were fun and not a problem, and from somebody who is not normally comfortable performing or doing anything theater-related, the performance part of this class was more than okay.  It actually helped to make me more confident in front of people, let alone in my Spanish-speaking ability.  You should take this class, and Goretti is a great TF!
This is such a fun course! You will get to brush up on grammar and conversation while really enjoying yourself and doing fun assignments!
This class is great! The workload is pretty light and the assignments are all fun and interesting, and I really enjoyed all the reading. Class was actually fun but also helped me improve my speaking a lot. If you have a pretty good grasp of Spanish and are looking to improve, definitely take it.
As a whole this class is very enjoyable although the experience varies greatly from TF to TF. The readings (short stories and plays) are good and generate interesting discussion. The format of the three exams was a bit strange, but much better than a written exam or paper. At times it was frustrating because my TF didn't follow the syllabus exactly and was not especially clear about what work was required of us so there were times that I would read way ahead or neglect to do something he assigned that wasn't on the syllabus. But this was not major and I definitely liked this class overall!
Melissa was an awesome TF. She not only gave excellent feedback on all assignments, but actually made the effort to reach out to us beyond class. Loved this course. Very painless.
It's really important that you actively participate in class in order to get the most out of it.
El Borges mayor el lo mejor.
This class is a lot of fun! Less busy work than Spanish 30 and 40 but be prepared to speak a lot in class.
such an awesome class!!! Celeste is the best!
This class is very entertaining and not too work intensive. I liked how there are no written exams, but just presentations.
Por favor, toma este curso si puedes. Es fantstico con respecto a la variedad de obras que vas a estudiar. Adems, Seora Gonzlez es una profesora increble, explicando los conceptos con claridad y creando un ambiente muy cmodo para discutir tus ideas. Los "exmenes" se pueden considerar como proyectos creativos (y las tareas son composiciones cortas y creativas tambin). No obstante, vas a trabajar bastante duro en esta clase, pero aprenders a leer y hablar con mucha ms facilidad. Vale la pena.
You'll read some interesting texts and get a chance to speak a lot...many of the projects are fun but things may feel a bit haphazardous at times.
Just keep up with the assignments and try to practice your Spanish independently.
best spanish course yet (at least compared to everything before 50)
This class is a great way to improve your Spanish- it's fun, enjoyable, and interesting.  Definitely take it if you want to improve your speaking skills and feel more comfortable with the language.
This is a super painless way to get a citation or secondary field requirement out of the way. There is some discussion of grammar, but you are never tested on it. All the assessments are purely creative writing or acting out scenes (i.e. minimal preparation needed). The acting does help your spoken Spanish a bit too. Class could be really fun sometimes and the 1 1/2 hours went by pretty quickly. Don't buy the grammar book though!
If you love acting, you will love this class.
This was the best Spanish class I've taken so far at Harvard. It was a lot of fun, had interesting readings, and really helped me to improve my writing and speaking skills.
Lots of fun. You get to read pretty interesting material and, often times, interpret it and perform it how you'd like to. The writing assignments are also quite interesting and painless.
Una de las clases ms fantsticas en Harvard. Los "exmenes" son divertidos, la tarea fcil, la profesora (si tienes Gorreti) excelente.
This class is great. You get to have fun with the Spanish language and develop your accent.
enjoy the performances be active
Fun class. Great way to fulfill a citation requirement!
Super chill and easy class that really isn't demanding at all; I tried to skip 50 because it was more of a drama class and I'm more interested in learning rigorous grammar/writing/speaking but I wasn't able to apply to the upper level Spanish classes, but I don't really feel like I learned anything new from this class, it was all more about being able to speak Spanish more confidently
Take this class. It is so much fun, the exams are awesome, and the literature you read in this class is all so cool. ANDRES IS THE BEST!!!!
The most fun Spanish class you will ever take! Banana costumes, inside jokes with all your classmates, hilarious voices, silly podcasts, a cross-dressing Next Top Model, and so much more. You will die laughing and learning Spanish.
This class is pretty variable depending on your TF
The writing and performance aspect makes the class particularly engaging.  It's a lot of fun and, because a lot of the work is collaborative, you become close to those in your section.  I definitely recommend this class!
A great class to take for your language citation. A lot depends on the TF but the classes are really fun, and the performances will often make you laugh.
This class is a lot of fun. The class is much more focused on your speaking and writing component of the language. You need to have a good background on grammar, but you will not be tested purely on grammar. You get to do a lot of creative assignments.
I found this to be a great class for helping to develop my fluency and writing skills.  As the course title implies, you'll be writing a lot, but the assignments are fun and do their job.  Performance is not as significant of an element; while there is some dramatic reading, the speaking component of this course comes primarily from in-class discussion of readings.
This is a great, low-stress way to improve your Spanish writing and speaking, and it's guaranteed to be fun as well.
This class is very engaging. The readings were short and by far the ones that I most enjoyed out of all the classes I took fall semester. When the students come to class after having done the readings, we are all very excited to discuss our thoughts. Sometimes we get so carried away we spend half of the class talking about something and end up getting a little behind.
This class is a great way to improve oral and written Spanish skills, and gain an introduction to some of the great Latin American and Iberian authors.
A good way to keep up one's spanish ability and to practice writing and speaking. But be prepared to write many essays.
I loved this class! The readings were actually interesting and I looked forward to the class discussions about them. The essay topics challenged me to sharpen my proficiency in creative writing as a whole - I especially improved in satirical writing and literary analysis while actually enjoying doing the work! This class is one that I looked forward to each week.
It is an incredibly fun class where you learn a lot. The teacher is awesome!
The best Spanish class I've taken at Harvard.
Be prepared to get up in front of the class and act out scenes in Spanish!
The class is a lot of fun, and a great way to practice spoken Spanish. The writing assignments are also surprisingly enjoyable.
This will be one of the best courses you have ever taken here. you will learn a lot, not only Spanish but foreign culture, life, psychology, society etc...
If you're interested in the Spanish language and have a knack for it, Profesora Gutierrez is exceptional, and the course helps sharpen your speaking and writing skills
Future students should take this course if they love Spanish and want to take a different experience of learning Spanish from the typical languge class. The class is unique because it allows you to analyze texts, act them out and practice your writing skills in a non-pressure filled, comfortable environment.
This course is really fun, but can be stressful if you are shy or not in the mood for being put on the spot.  You have to read your creative writing aloud, which I imagine a lot of people don't like to do.
Professor Gutierrez is, by far, the best Spanish professor I have had and has provided an exciting and very fruitful foreign language experience.  Her amicable nature and insightful creative suggestions makes the course incredibly worthwhile.
This is more work than a usual Spanish course
There is a lot of writing, but the readings are very well selected, and the "exams" are actually very fun acting and improvisational opportunities.
If you enjoy Spanish, this is a very fun class. You will improve your writing and speaking without having to stress/work too hard over the semester
If you have a bright interest in the Spanish language and are looking to hone your writing, speaking and intellectual skills, this is a terrific class with a fabulous professor.
Profesora Gutierrez was a wonderful teacher and the class is extremely low-stress, but also captivating.
This class is a fun, unique introduction to Spanish-language theatre.
It's a fun and helpful way to improve your Spanish.
As there is less time is spent on things like vocabulary and grammar in class, students really get the chance to work closely with a wide variety Spanish-language literature.
I very much liked this class and would recommend it to students next year, despite the fact that this was the first year it was taught. There's a heavy emphasis on writing, with near-weekly writing assignments.
Take it! It's a fantastic class.
This is just such a fun class. The course work is fair, essay topics are actually enjoyable to write, and readings are well chosen. The theatrical part of the course just makes everyone in the class open up, and you will end up becoming very comfortable just to act everything out, though in most other places you would feel as if you were making a fool out of yourself. I laughed and participated in discussion in every section, though I would say my Spanish is not excellent. The section leader really, really is knowledgeable, respectful, flexible, good at facilitating discussions, and just absolutely kind.
Maybe I enjoyed this course only because I had a great section leader, but overall I would recommend this course because my speaking and reading skills have improved dramatically.
It is a great way to improve your speaking as well as writing in Spanish, not to mention the enjoyable literature you will cover in the class.
It's a nice class, fun, and I got to maintain my level of spanish. i wouldn't say I learned a tremendous amount, but it was enjoyable.
Only take this class if you are motivated, not because of the amount or difficulty of the work, but because attending class presents little incentive unless you absolutely love the discussions. The instructor is great but the syllabus is horrible; the majority of what determines your final grade has nothing to do with day-to-day class but rather comes from writing assignments or "dramatized readings" that are practicable 24 hours beforehand.
TAKE IT!
Spanish 50 is a very good class that will give you the chance to practice your spanish aloud and read some interesting works of theater. You'll love it if you like acting out scenes and playing the role of a character. The one thing I would say is that the class is a bit short on the history and culture surrounding the plays and playwrights we read.
Take it! Really great course!
This class is incredibly fun no matter how much experience you have acting.
If you're serious about Spanish, however, I would take a higher level.
The writing assignments continue to be creative and fun. They became less stressful as you became more confident in your Spanish, and creative/interesting content seemed to be appreciated. There were more essays, about one per week, and they were a little longer, but that was about the brunt of the work. There is an element of Spanish theatre in this class!
Its more time consuming than typical spanish courses.
This class will improve your speaking skills immensely if you actively participate. Generally the section itself isn't all that exciting, but the written text is engaging to read. The exams are unclear in terms of what is expected. But, at the end, my goal was met--to improve my accent and comfort speaking.
This class is so much fun!  The readings are awesome. They are challenging but entertaining, and if you have energetic classmates that are willing to participate, they will facilitate great discussion in class.  Writing the compositions takes some time and effort, but they are actually very fun because you can be completely creative and original.  I loved acting out scenes from the plays - best final exam ever!  In general, the class is pretty low-key, but the more effort you make to prepare for class and speak up, the more enjoyable it will be and the more your Spanish will improve.
Best Spanish class I've taken at Harvard. Very fun, very lighthearted, not too much work, really good readings and discussions.
lots of fun
Adriana is amazing!! Her class is so fun and you learn a ton.
This class doesn't feel like a class. The exams are unconventional and a lot of fun.
I started this course with some scepticism (I'm not usually fond of plays in any language), but I left the class very glad that I had taken it.
This class is a lot of fun and covers some very interesting works of literature, but participation and acting are required.
It's fun.  It's not too much work.  You get to talk to other students (in Spanish) and act out skits.
If you are very interested in Spanish literature and are prepared to analyze it, discuss it, and create/memorize/present your own interpretations on literary works, then this would be a good class for you.  If you're not a fan of reading and discussing plays or of doing original creative work based on other authors' works, you might want to skip it.
This class is a gem and worth the work you put in.
This class is amazing! Everything about it is enjoyable.
Much better than Spanish 40. The assignments and projects are much more fun.
It's fun and engaging
A fun class that helps you keep up with your Spanish without having unnecessary amounts of work or stress.
This class is very interactive and allows you to become immersed in the language in a fun and lively way.
Future students probably will not improve their Spanish very much in this class unless they work to improve on their own.
If you're hesitant about taking a 70s or above level Spanish course, this could be considered a good bridge. However, I don't think it advanced my Spanish skills any more than Spanish 40 had done last semester. You'll be writing and speaking a lot, but I imagine you would do that in 70s level courses as well.
This is an excellent class - my best one at Harvard so far. If you do sign up for this, make sure you go to the Gutierrez section - best Spanish teacher I have ever had.
It is really fun and definitely helps improve your speaking ability!
Be prepared to speak up and participate actively in class. And enjoy!
This class is a lot of fun, especially if you like performing. The readings are very interesting. This is a great course for anyone who likes creative writing.
Put effort in and you will come out much better in every aspect of Spanish.
Most enjoyable class I've taken at Harvard.
Just be prepared to do a lot of presentations and performances, and to not focus very much on Spanish culture or literature analysis.
Great class, manageable workload and interesting materials.
Students in the class have a fairly wide range of general speaking abilities, vocabulary, pronunciation, etc. It should be enjoyable if you like acting (though exceptional acting abilities are not necessary). Grammar homework assignments are very tedious.
This class really improved my fluency in Spanish while also exposing me to some really great theatre and art/writing. Overall incredible!
There are many group projects/tests in the course and no spanish grammar exams.
David is a great TF, who does his best at cultivating and developing your spanish skills while building it all up. He's great and made the class less grammar focused as it was in other sections. The class is very demanding and time-consuming, it has a good amount of readings in spanish that vary in length, and you read a few plays.
The ratio of what you learn over the work you need to put in is very high for this class. I have become much more confident in speaking and writing Spanish after taking this class and I think the structure of the class, especially the creative and open-ended assignments, allow it to be both fun and instructive.  I would really recommend for anyone who was placed at this level of Spanish and would like to improve.
This is an awesome class that improves your speaking abilities. There are lots of writing assignments, but it is manageable since there are no tests.
This is a Spanish class unlike anything that you might have taken in high school and probably stands out among Harvard's offerings as well. The exams are not grammar-based sit-down exams but performances and oral presentationswhether this is desirable or not depends on your personal preference. The class consists of reading short stories and plays, discussing them during section, writing creative compositions, and performing skits. David is a bro; would definitely recommend trying to get his section.
This class is a really good way to get more comfortable with speaking! It's also more fun than a normal Spanish class since the major assignments are skits/recordings rather than written assignments or tests.
I liked how the different structure of the course broke up the rest of my classes. For example, instead of written tests it's performing in groups, and compositions were creative writing assignments. Sometimes the group project requirements seemed a bit unnecessary but overall I really enjoyed the course.
This requires you to get out of your comfort zone. Do not be scared by the fact that the majority of this class is performance and verbal components! You will notice your spanish drastically improves (if you take this seriously of course).  Do not take this because you think it will be your "easy class"; you will spend a lot of time on the readings and writing assignments.
This is a super fun class and David has incredible energy. Also his passion for Spanish language and literature would make some even long days pass by super quickly! He is very helpful and tries to engage all the students in the class.
This is very much a continuation of Spanish 40. There is a lot more speaking involved and more assignments, but there are no exams, just orals. And even for the orals, you don't really have to memorize things.
It is so fun and you get to know your classmates really well.
yeme wey, TIENES QUE TOMAR ESTA CLASE. Fue increble, los maestros son inteligentes y simpticos, y la clase en s es muy buena tambin. Tu espaol mejorar muchsimo, pero ms que eso, vas a encantar la lengua. Vas a escuchar a msica espaola, leer poemas y obras de teatro, y hablar con la gente en tu clase en espaol. No es demasiado trabajo, y si no seas un gringo tonto puedas sacar un A. Aprende espaol. Toma esta clase. Cambia el mundo. rale! (if you didn't understand this, you can always take the second Hebrew Bible (yes there's two))
Spanish is a pretty linear track, so it's hard to do recommendations. Still, I felt like this class was a lot more chill than Spanish 40.
I would tell future students that this course lets them improve their Spanish in a way that is really fun-- by acting.
Not as exciting as Spanish 40 content-wise. There's a lot of re-enacting scenes in class rather than as much emphasis on thematic interpretation. Still an okay way to finish out a citation though!
Not very engaging. Doesn't expand your spanish skills or cultural knowledge. Lots of busy work and rote memorization.
engaging, rewarding, fun
Very fun and Anna is amazing!
Great class especially if you like acting/performance
This class is a different approach to learning Spanish that is very performance and writing intensive. You'll get to know your TF and classmates pretty well for this reason too. Tougher grading also comes with higher level of Spanish classes.
The grading trends make it seem that there is a limit to the amount of A's.
This course was fun and chill, while still really helping me improve my fluency in Spanish. All the exams were performances/presentations, which were relatively low-pressure. Most of the assignments, including written compositions, were creative assignments, which could be a bit challenging at first but get easier over the semester. Our section did not do any of the grammar exercises from the book.
Very fun, interesting, different kind of spanish class than the intro ones
It is so fun and you will love the class. There is a lot of work but it is definitely worth it. One of my favorite classes so far.
Your experience in the class really depends upon your TF. You don't need to having acting experience to take this class, but you have to be willing to make a fool out of yourself to perform in front of your classmates. More than other classes, I think this class gives you a chance to really get to know and work with your classmates. However, it doesn't give you much freestyle practice with speaking the language.
Get your assignments done on time and ask when assignments are due
Class is very dependent on who is teaching your section. I had a very good time in the course. There are two-page papers due every week and the play performance aspect of the course turns out to be very fun.
A fun course! Make sure you get an enthusiastic professor, because you'll be doing a lot of speaking and acting in class and you'll want someone who can engage his students. The work outside of class was very manageable, and the oral exams were fair.
Spanish 50 is great! All the exams are performances, which is a big change from all earlier Spanish classes, but this emphasis on oral exams is really helpful in development of speaking skills. The readings are also interesting and never feel like a burden. There are a lot of compositions to be written, but they aren't really stress-inducing.
Just do the readings, participate in class, and revise your compositions.
Have fun with it!
Be prepared to work a bit more than Spanish 40, but it is a VERY good class to take, simply because verbal Spanish isn't practiced nearly enough and this class will help you refine your verbal capabilities.
It's not too difficult; kinda fun, but the assignments are a little strange.
Humberto is the best but I know he won't be teaching anymore. If he was, I would tell you: take this class! Otherwise, take into account that essays sometimes might be painful. It's not Spanish 40 where you watch movies, and have great time discussing them. You read 3 literary works which are sort of fun but might be a bit boring, and then act in front of your classmates! The worst part about this class is essays so as long as you're comfortable with writing a lot, you should be fine! Overall, I DO recommend this class!
great course! a lot of fun and great teaching staff
Overall, Spanish 50 is a good course. You read some really interesting works by well-known Hispanic authors and have great class discussions. The emphasis is on the ability to speak well and on the performance aspect, which can be very fun if you have a good group. You will leave this course with greatly improved pronunciation skills and sounding more like a native speaker.
This class is so much fun and very helpful if you work well in groups and you're willing to participate and not be shy. Have fun with it! Great way to learn and practice spanish, lots of fun, and the papers aren't hard at all! Take it with Eugenio if you can, he's AMAZING. <3 And avoid Thenesoya, she's incredibly strict and demanding about extra work
This course is challenging with little reward; Spanish speaking skills improve, but it comes at the cost of a lot of outside work that often interferes with work from other courses.
If you want to hone in your Spanish skills in a new way, definitely take this course. Spanish 50 is less about grammar and book-learning, as we focus on mastering our writing skills. The class is based on short stories and plays, giving you a taste of how beautiful Spanish literature is. I enjoyed this course, so I definitely recommend it!
Although I was reluctant at first, I came to enjoy the many times in class in which we were called to act out scenes or make up scenes to perform. As I began more comfortable with performing in Spanish, it became increasingly fun. I would say that anyone that takes this course needs to be fairly comfortable writing and performing in Spanish because there is not a lot, if any, grammatical review in this course, so you need to come into the class fairly comfortable with your Spanish background. You do not need to be fluent or anything like that to take the course, but the course requires that you be able to jump into Spanish writing and performance without providing you with a lot of grammatical review (e.g. verb conjugations, verb tenses, formulaic sentence construction review) that you may have gotten in lower level Spanish classes. The course can be overwhelming at first, but gets better over time as you become more comfortable with Spanish writing and performance. Also, there is a lot of group work in the course, so if you enroll in the course, make sure you choose a group that you can work well with, preferably all semester.
This class is really fun. Lots of literature and acting. I'm personally a shy person, but I enjoyed acting and singing in class. This class also had a lot of speaking which helped prepare me for studying abroad in Cuba next year.
the better you are at speaking the more pleasant this class will be for you
Spanish 50 is a pretty chill course. It definitely focuses more on writing/reading than speaking Spanish though which is why I felt my speaking abilities were actually somehow worse at the end of the course. However, the readings are pretty interesting and the performances are actually pretty fun; you just get to act dramatically in Spanish with your classmates and it can get ridiculous. It's not too much work but the weekly essays (only two pages) can pile up if you don't keep on top of it.
Don't let the performance component throw you off; this class is designed to improve your language proficiency.
If Humberto is TFing, do anything you can to try to get him...he makes the class tremendously entertaining and is very flexible and easy to work with. This was one of the most fun classes I've taken and the acting and group projects leave a great amount of room for creativity and humor
This class is pretty fun!  If the readings don't change don't buy the books...you can find them online.  Lots of acting and performing in this class!
This class is very fun, not too hard, and Eugenio is an awesome TF.
This course involves quite a lot of work in comparison to other spanish classes I have taken.  It is not necessarily more difficult, but the time requirement is a bit higher.
This course is excellent to continue to fulfill the citation requirements while also practicing your spanish.
This course can be (and for me, it was) very interesting and enjoyable, with three major conditions. (1) Your TF is critical to the overall enjoyment and effectiveness of the course. Humberto was the absolute man - funny, flexible, laid back, and he talked quickly, which, in the end, helped my comprehension skills. (2) Your classmates matter. If your peers are interested and engaged with the materials and instruction, you will have a much better time, your abilities will improve, and you will be more active in class. (3) You have to be willing to work. This course requires a lot of writing, which was pretty inconvenient at times.
LOVED this course. I did not have much acting experience and it was great to learn how to act and improve spanish through this course.
This is a good course, and the materials are interesting. You must be comfortable speaking Spanish a lot as all your exams and section participation will count on this. There are many compositions, which seem to be graded kind of arbitrarily, but overall a good course.
The readings are more intense than I had originally thought, but the tests are great. They pair creative writing with performance and expression. The essay assignments were open for a lot of creative interpretation, and they helped to think farther about the themes of the course.
Spanish 50 requires a lot of work, but your growth as a Spanish speaker is proportional. The readings are interesting as are the discussions that take place in class every day. All of the exams are group projects, which can be frustrating for scheduling purposes, but can also be rewarding as you get to know your classmates well. All in all, this class is difficult but worthwhile.
The exams for this class are pretty chill, they're all just performance based so not a lot of studying is required. Definitely stay caught up on the reading though and be able to speak about them in section.
Spanish 50 is a great course. I think it depends on your TF and Antonio is great! He is nice, knowledgable, encouraging and fair. It helps you become more comfortable with speaking, writing, and reading. I learned a lot of new vocabulary and enjoyed the course.
Take Spanish 40 or 59. You will get more out of those classes.
A good course that really works to improve your all-around Spanish skills. You also get to study more culture than in previous classes, but make sure you know your grammar forms-teaching of grammar is not emphasized very much in the class.  There's a lot of compositions, but they aren't difficult to write, and they should not be discouraging if you're on the fence about taking the class.
This class will be the most frustrating that you will take at Harvard. There is truly no syllabus, and all of the section leader options are unfriendly and unnecessarily harsh.
Spanish 50 is a fun opportunity to perfect your acting and presentation abilities while pursuing advanced Spanish studies. With that said, this is a difficult class and a definite step up from Spanish 40.
Great, fun course that you will really enjoy taking if you are willing to put in the time and go all out for the performances and the work. The compositions are frequent and rather difficult, but I found Luis to be very open to meeting with me, and we improved tremendously throughout the semester. Definitely worth taking.
This course gives lots of opportunities to be creative by using skits and original papers as tests rather than traditional tests, practicing Spanish proficiency without doing lots of busywork worksheets. However, this is not the course for you if you are looking for a lot of grammar review, particularly during class-- grammar exercises are done at home and not really discussed. There's a fair (but manageable) amount of reading and lots of opportunities to improve speaking proficiency in class. It's probably advisable to have taken a fairly advanced Spanish recently, but overall a good way to practice Spanish.
This class was disorganized and somewhat difficult to navigate, as the website and syllabus could be difficult to navigate. It seemed like some assignments (especially group projects) were sprung on us without warning, which could be difficult. The material covered -- especially the two plays we read -- were very interesting, as were the in-class discussions. Overall, my spoken Spanish improved, but not without the frustration of the course organization.
You are expected to act in this class.  The assignments are creative but are often busy work.
Be prepared for a lot of busy work.
Don't take it with thenensoya.
a lot of fun
If you are willing to put it in the time to attend section and engage the material, this class will go by great. It's critical to stay on top of the workthe deadlines and exact specifications of each assignment can be difficult to understand, and if you fall behind the amount of work can be difficult to overcome.
The class was certainly difficult with a large number of written assignments. However, the course material was fascinating. Take the course if you are interested in more modern Spanish literature and only if you are comfortable performing in front of your classmates.
I would tell future students that this course allows them to gain knowledge about the broad genre of Spanish literature and works of theater, but that it does so by selecting largely engaging and interesting texts.
Don't take this class if you're not interested in literature. Although I adored my section and TF, sometimes I felt like my Spanish wasn't improving as much as I wanted to and that was a bit disappointing. I think that if you want to improve your Spanish speaking skills in the context of academia, I would definitely recommend this class. Otherwise, take 59.
I absolutely loved Spanish 50.  The works we read were interesting, the discussions we had about them were deep and thought provoking, and I enjoyed speaking and improving my Spanish oral skills through the "exams" (which were presentations in front of the class).  The essays were easy to do, and since our section was small, we got to really make connections between each other and our TF.  This was a great step up from Spanish 40.  I think the only thing I didn't love was the over abundance of short stories we were reading in the middle of the class.  I think it would've been more interesting to read another play or work and spend a longer time on that then burning through one short story a day.
Unless you are interested in theatrical performances, and have the time to commit to a ton of essays (basically one every week) and a lot of reading, do not take this class.  Take any other Spanish class if you are looking to hone your skills.  If you are interested and have the time, this class really helps to focus on the nitty gritty details of Spanish.  If you have trouble with any grammar tenses, be prepared to struggle.
If you love spanish but are not particularly fond of literature analysis, do not take this course.
A painless class and can actually be fun at times. Definitely take it with Luis if you can - he's the best.
This was a really fun class and my conversation skills improved a lot! If possible, try to get in a smaller section. I feel that the small class size really enhanced my experience.
It's a pretty easy class workload-wise, just reading works in Spanish and the several midterms. The midterms are kind of annoying, but not difficult.
this course was extremely frustrating because the assignments were very unclear and we repeatedly were assigned huge assignments due a day or two later. I also hated the lack of a syllabus after the first two weeks of the class. the TF could also be very condescending and graded incomparably harder than the TFs in spanish 40. I think my spanish actually got worse during this class...
This course is a wonderful way to expand your Spanish speaking ability in a performance setting.  It challenges you to think and talk on your feet.
Obviously your TF plays a huge role in this class, and Luis was great! The readings were interesting, course themes sometimes sort of random but also enjoyable. I wish there was a mandatory vocabulary notebook or something so I could force myself to learn more words, but that was more on me. Otherwise, I feel like my Spanish improved a ton!
After taking a year off Spanish, this class was a good refresher, but I don't think my speaking or writing improved very much. We got to read and discuss some pretty cool literature, and it was relatively low-stress, though the group performance projects could be annoying to coordinate.
Great class. You get to be creative.
It is a great way to learn about Spanish-speaking authors and deeply analyze their works.
This class is so enjoyable and fun, but it also teaches you a lot about spanish literature, culture, and history, and your spanish will improve if you put in the effort!
There is a big jump between the skill expected of you in Spanish 40 versus Spanish 50. It is very necessary to practice all the time and stay on top of material. The assignments are good and not difficult on their own but there are many.
This course is undoubtedly a lot of work, but your Spanish will improve tremendously! Moreover, because of the small-class size and the group nature of the tests, you become great friends with all of your classmates, which makes the class socially very rewarding. And, speaking of the group tests, though time consuming, they may be among the most fun tests you will take at Harvard and also help improve the very valuable skills of working in a group!
This course is challenging but rewarding. You speak exclusively in Spanish for the entirety of the class. It initially feels like a big jump from Spanish 40 and we don't do any grammar review but it is useful to get to practice a lot of speaking. The "exams" are a little bit weird (they're just acting) but they're interesting and typically not too difficult. This class really felt like a class that was in Spanish rather than a class on Spanish which is good if you feel like you are at a level of speaking/writing/understanding where you can do that.
This class is a whole lot of fun if you have the right TF. Take some time during shopping period to feel out which one is best for you.
This is a great Spanish class that gives you a lot of speaking and writing practice. It is significantly more work than Spanish 40, as there are many more writing assignments and multiple group projects, but none of the assignments are unmanageable. Sometimes there were not fully clear explanations of deadlines and expectations, but overall Carlos was a great TF and the course improved my Spanish and helped alleviate my anxiety over performing in front of a class.
Antonio is a great TF, but at times this class felt like a disappointment. This stemmed from the syllabus which often wasn't cohesive. I felt like at times there was an overwhelming amount of work for this class (especially since it is often taken as an elective or as a less time intensive class). Other times there was little to no work. I wish we read more interesting works, but I think that is just what comes with the territory of this being a theatre and performance class. The acting aspect was kind of annoying (obviously cannot be avoided), but the last class where we performed scenes straight out of the play really seemed useless. Once again, this is the fault of whoever designed the syllabus. The composition ideas were really strange too. Check the syllabus next year and look through it carefully. Try to get Antonio as your Tf, he is super helpful.
Most people don't like the class because it was more work than they expected based on past Spanish classes. The class is more work than prior classes because there are compositions due almost every week and exams requires working with your group outside of class. Overall, it was a good class and really did help improve my speaking and writing skills immensely. Not too hard, just don't expect as low of a work load as before.
Not a whole lot different from Spanish 40 do it for a citation
It will probably feel overwhelming at first, especially if it's your first college-level language course, but once you get used to it, you'll feel really proud of all the things you can understand and how much better you can speak.
This class is fun and not too difficult. If you do the essays and participate in class, you will get along just fine. Antonio is awesome as well!!
This is a great course if you prefer more engaging verbal presentations instead of the classic grammar and test based evaluations. The material is really interesting and the exams are never impossible. This is a course where if you spend the time and prepare for exams you will do well.
Exams are presenations that you give to the class. A very fun replacement for tests!
It is an easy class, but incredibly frustrating, boring, and unhelpful.
If you're interested in a language citation in spanish, definitely go for this class! The readings were really engaging and fun to read, and class discussions were usually a good time. The only thing that got me a bit was that there were no written exams in the class; instead, the exams consisted of giving a presentation or acting out a scene from one of the plays that we read. Essentially, if you do not like group projects, keep in mind that the majority of this class consists of group projects. If you don't mind this style of work, though, the class is a wonderful opportunity to make friends with all the people you work with!
it's a lot more work that earlier spanish classes
This class is great because there are no grammar tests! All of the exams are group projects, which turn out to be enjoyable and funny. The course materials are interesting to read.
Spanish 50 was great. Super non-traditional, fun class. Totally depends on your TF, but I had a great time with Luigi. Writing assignments were more like creative writing and exams were more like acting. If you don't like working in groups or presentations, don't take this class. A great brief introduction to classic Spanish literature and lots of chances to improve your conversational Spanish and have some fun with it, plus make friends.
It's a great course- you'll speak a lot of Spanish and do a lot of fun projects/assignments
It is hard, a lot of reading
It can be confusing and disorganized, but it definitely improves your Spanish and the material that we read is great.
Fantastic class for improving or brushing up on your Spanish. Take it if you like plays because that's what the course focuses on. Recommend with enthusiasm!
A great class, especially if you get Antonio as a TF. I thought this was actually easier than Spanish 40.
I would recommend the course! It is a unique and fun approach to an upper level language course and is likely very different from language courses students took in high school!
A great course! The small class size is really nice and Antonio is great TF.
Great class, but be aware that you will have a lot of group projects and that the course mostly relies on participation and acting performance.
Excellent course - Eugenio is a FANTASTIC teacher.  HIGHLY recommend.
This class really rewards creativity! The creative aspect definitely improves your Spanish as well.
I loved this class! It was so much fun- you will act out scenes from plays, have interesting conversations about relevant current events, and read culturally important and famous texts. Ernesto is an amazing TF and incredibly cool person, and if he teaches at Harvard again, get in his section!! The group projects can sometimes feel tedious, but they are great opportunities to improve your speaking skills. Your Spanish will improve tremendously from this class. Take it!
The best Spanish class I have taken at Harvard. I highly recommend this course to others as the format of the class made it relaxing and fun!
It's a really fun class but requires a fair amount of work.
Spanish 50 with David Francis was one of the most fun classes I've ever taken! Based on what I hear from other students, the class experience truly depends on who your TF is. If you have David, you'll be in a class with an amazing TF who truly cares about his students and the subject matter.
DAVID IS THE BEST TEACHER EVER. The class is super chill and fun!
GREAT course! Fun projects. Get Eugenio as your section leader!
This class is a super fun and engaging way to continue learning Spanish, assignments and class activities and creative and collaborative.
I loved this class! I really could feel my spanish language abilities growing and I had an amazing time.
a little bit boring and the classes are too long but eugenio is a great person and teacher and is very enthusiastic
Honestly, if you've taken Spanish 30 and 40, you might find this class to be pretty boring. However, the class is as fun as you make it. You get to read and act out plays and it's not very difficult. I would recommend taking it.
What I truly appreciated about this class was the variation in mediums in which the course material was presented. Following Spanish 40 (film), Spanish 50 continues to promote comprehension of the Spanish language in addition to intellectual growth. The opportunity to explore language through poems, articles, plays, short stories, etc. allows students to internalize the literary flavor of Latin America in addition to encouraging creativity in  their Spanish thought and writing. The course is very helpful in aiding fluency.
I really do feel like Spanish 50 helped me a lot with my Spanish fluency.  I was debating between Spanish 61n and Spanish 50, and I really did enjoy Spanish 50 in the end.  My only suggestion for future students is to be aware that there are lots of group projects and that this class can be fairly time intensive (in a way that other Spanish classes haven't been for me).  It is nice that there are essays and performance exams, not grammar exams, but be aware that the performance exams are done in groups and take quite a bit of time/energy to prepare for!  Your Spanish really will improve by the end of the semester though!
Very fun and interactive.
It is not too hard and you will generally enjoy the class.
It was great! very interesting
This class is extremely interesting. You get to discuss varied topics, and the assignments are engaging, as well. Overall, I would definitely recommend the class!
This class varies significantly based on your instructor. I would compare with my friend who was in a different section and we were essentially enrolled in different classes since our instructors ran the class so differently. But it's a good course. The midterms are all little skits you act out for the class, and they're super fun and non-judgemental.
This class is wonderful! The workload is not too bad but you learn a lot and read very interesting things.
Ernesto is the man.
Such a great class; my section is so close and I made some lifelong friends from this course. The set-up is very conducive to group participation, which is nice.
Amazing course that was fun and entertaining. Spanish class was always the highlight of my day.
Great, fun class! A fair amount of work though.
I don't feel like my Spanish advanced tremendously during this class, but it served as solid practice
Eugenio is a fantastic teacher, and if you're looking to keep speaking spanish in a safe, comfortable environment, i would highly encourage you to look into this class.
I don't think my Spanish really improved as a result of this class, but I did get more comfortable speaking in front of others, and the immersion experience is great for tuning your ear to the language!
I really enjoyed it. I think the material is interesting, and I loved my TF, Eugenio.
Pretty fun especially if you like creative writing and plays.
Spanish50 is a very easy class with minimal work. You have a 2 page (double-spaced) essay due every week that is loosely based off of readings in class. You don't have to do the readings, but some are very interesting. Take this class if you don't want to lose any Spanish over a semester, but don't expect to improve your abilities too much.
This is a really interesting and fun language course. You will certainly continue to develop your ability to speak, write, read and interact in the language. However, you will also explore a wide range of topics through different media. The emphasis on acting, performance and writing allows you to develop language skills in a unique setting.
This course is really great if you like reading Spanish literature and especially plays. Be prepared to do performances in class - I wasn't expecting that, but it ended up really helping with my speaking skills. This class isn't that much work - one two-page composition every week and grammar every other week, but if you put in the effort it's a nice way to maintain speaking and writing skills.
This class is a ton of fun! Definitely a painless way of fulfilling requirements but also just a creative way of learning Spanish. I loved the idea of using role-play and verbal projects as exams, and the writing prompts for all the essays were open-ended and let you be as creative as you wanted. Great class!
This class is so relaxed. One writing assignment every couple weeks, but is really not that hard and you can write about pretty much anything. Best spanish class I have taken by far.
This was a stress-free way to practice my spanish. It was not very rigorous and there were times when I actually wished we did more grammar work or more intensive conversations about our readings. All in all, I would recommend this as a fairly relaxed class.
This is a really awesome course, which improves your speaking skills.  The assessments are also ideal since they are all performances which you can prepare for ahead of time.  The only problem is that you will have to meet with a group, but it's still better than memorizing grammar for a test.  It's a lot of work, but not too much and not too stressful.  I highly recommend it.
This was my favorite class. I learned a lot and developed my writing, reading, and speaking skills.
It is a spanish class that approaches the language from a different angle than most may be used to from lower levels at Harvard or high school Spanish. That being said, I loved the course! The writing and performance aspects of the class allow you to constantly engage with texts in new, creative ways that enhance your understanding of the materials while having fun with classmates! Highly recommend the course to anyone that enjoys spanish and becoming more comfortable and confident with the language. Very little focus on grammar.
It's a great class. There are a lot of weekly assignments but they are mostly creative and the exams are also creative exams.
Section is what you make it. My section was great because everyone was really enthusiastic and we got a lot out of the class.
Make sure to prepare early and check your grammar often.
I absolutely loved Spanish 50. I always liked performing, but doing it so often made it feel less awkward, and I subsequently got much better at it.
Have fun.
This course is awesome. If you have a good background in Spanish and are not looking to go over the same grammar stuff again this course is an excellent option. I completed the Argentina Summer Abroad program before this and felt more than prepared. It was awesome to focus more on pronunciation and writing than on the verb rules and things like that. Also the fact that the tests are group acting evaluations is amazing and a nice break from other courses. Even though all of the exams were group projects a lot of the evaluation is based on your individual performance and so don't let that discourage you.
Take this course if David is still TF'ing it!
Be sure to stay on top of the assigned work given that missing even one class can inhibit your ability to contribute to class discussions, which are really the bread and butter of the course.
If you can get Eugenio, take the class. He is a real joy.
Incredible class - really deepens your Spanish knowledge. Try to get Ernesto as your section leader, he's incredible and is seriously concerned with your development. His feedback and accessibility outside the classroom is invaluable.
if you're taking Spanish, can't really avoid it. A lot of busy work, and will have to be engaged. Try to get Ernesto, he's the best. Nice, relaxed, cool, and super fair and will make Spanish enjoyable.
Take if you like studying Spanish and talking is really what you want to improve on.
