Spanish 59 is probably one of the most important classes that I have taken at Harvard. Not only did we practice our language skills and expand upon our Spanish knowledge, we also read and discussed various and pressing issues that Spanish-speaking communities face today, either in Latin America, the United States, or both. Moreover, it teaches students about the community in which they study, which I feel is so crucial considering that so often students at Harvard get stuck in the "Harvard bubble" and never have the chance or take it upon themselves to learn about the Spanish-speaking community in Boston and Cambridge, or even the Spanish-speaking community that works hard for us students here in the university. Professor Parra is also absolutely incredible, and really cares for the subject matter and the students' progress, academically and personally speaking. If one speaks or is learning Spanish and is interested in either law, politics, social justice, public interest, or wants to improve their speaking skills, this class is not only highly recommended, but is a must.
Class time is entirely given over to discussion, which means that you have lots of opportunities to practice speaking Spanish, and to explore in surprising depth some fascinating and critical issues -- the value of bilingual education, how immigrants define themselves and build community, etc. The workload is manageable (no exams, just written assignments and preparing for class discussions) but be aware that it's a full language class plus the four-hour-a-week volunteering component, so it does take a fair amount of time.
You will learn about the Latin@ community in Boston and around the country. It is an invaluable course.
Take this class. It's the best Spanish class I've ever taken. The volunteer portion of this class can be a lot of time as it basically takes up one afternoon a week, but it's really valuable. Profe. Parra is very understanding and facilitates discussion well.
Lots of reading and outside class work. But so worth it! Learned a lot and really improved my Spanish speaking
The class period is very helpful in improving your Spanish skills and for learning about the Latinos in the United States. The volunteering is unique and fairly distinct from the actual class time, and can be anything from teaching English classes to helping out at an art gallery. Where you are placed could have a big impact on how you feel about the class: all of the positions seem interesting and fun, but some are definitely more difficult than others.
This was the best Spanish course I have ever taken.  I thoroughly enjoyed class and all of the provoking and fascinating discussions we had.  I loved our ability to apply what we learned in class to the real world. This class changed the way I think about Latin American culture and influences within the US. I highly recommend it!
This is a great course, especially for students looking to improve their Spanish in both the formal and conversational settings.I learned so much about the Latino population in Boston and in the United States. The class totally changed the way I thought about immigration and the Latino culture. I think it is a class everybody should take in some form just so that more people can open their eyes to these issues.
This class is an amazing way to not only practice your spanish at an advanced level, but also understand the latin community within the U.S. first hand through relevant topic materials and community service. Seora Parra is very kind, flexible, and engaging. The class discussions are open and discover a variety of topics that come from movies, poems, short stories, articles, videos, music, community service, history, and life experiences. The only thing I warn is to make sure you leave time in your week for community service because it is an integral and fantastic part of the class, but it is time consuming.
This is a really fun course. Definitely take it if you want to improve on your speaking skills in Spanish--both in class and in the volunteer organizations.
The volunteering is an experience at Harvard like no other. Please be sure to evaluate how much time it will take overall though, as one has to account for transportation as well as the actual hours of service.
A wonderful class that provides the perfect mix of theory and practice. Volunteering with the Spanish-speaking community of Cambridge was one of the most fulfilling experiences of my college career. Alberto is a pleasure to be around, and I hope he teaches the class in the future!
The community service component is what really helps to solidify your comfort with the language.
Do the classwork!  It's so fun and complements the community service work.
This class is incredible because it draws together a wonderful and passionate group of students.  The conversations you can have in this class are amazing--and the readings and videos are very interesting.  The 4 hours of community service each week hugely adds to the amount of time this class takes up (and really will take up at least 4 hours each week!), making the hours/week of this class much higher than most Spanish classes (because you still have readings, movies, essays on top of that).  That said, this class is TOTALLY worth it and more time-consuming (in a very worthwhile way) than stressful!  It is definitely my favorite Spanish class I've taken at Harvard and you won't regret the amazing conversations and friendships you form.  The community service component is also amazing, and in the end I really felt like I had a much deeper understanding than I ever would have thought possible of "Spanish and the Community."  Be prepared to put in a bit of time, but if you do, you'll have a great experience!
I have no regrets taking this course, as the course material is extremely thorough while the volunteer work is fulfilling and engaging to the utmost degree. The only potential concern I would highlight is that this course will take a little more time than you expect. Volunteer work + readings and assignments can add up in terms of time, leaving you spending more time on this course than all other Spanish course of a similar level. Still would recommend with enthusiasm if you have the time.
Spanish 59 is amazing class- for people like me, who can't seem to find time to do community service in their free time but really would like to, this class is perfect. The service is really meaningful and has the added benefit of improving your Spanish!
The class is great. Make sure you are willing to commit to the community service. My experience was valuable, but very difficult. Thinking and communicating in Spanish for four hours at a time is difficult and exhausting, Make sure you're ready for that component. That's not an issue grade-wise, but to do the kind of job you want to do with the people you'll be working with, make sure your Spanish is good enough. The class discussion was great. Essays were reasonable with interesting topics. There was not a big focus on grammar, for better or for worse. That didn't bother me, but this is not the class for you if you're looking to drill down your grammar. The class really improved my spoken Spanish.
I loved the service portion of this class! great way to practice speaking. not too much busy work.
This is a great class to take if you want extensive practice with spanish language in a setting other than a classroom. I loved my work in the community and truly looked forward to being there each week. Sometimes the lectures are a little slow, but Eugenio is very caring and really wants you to get the most out of the class. This class requires little time to prepare for the lectures, but is time intensive due to the community service hours (and transportation to and from there) required each week. That said, I highly recommend the course as long as you truly want to practice spanish in a class that is likely very different from what you have previously taken.
This class is the only spanish class of its kind. It was definitely the most interesting spanish class I have taken at harvard. Don't miss out!
This class was very disorganized - Harvard doesn't have control over the organizations' needs so that part is disjointed.  Our course website was down the entire time - Eugenio had to email us all the assignments.  Some of the readings are in English, but they are very culturally interesting.  You learn a lot about the culture - a very eye-opening course that overlaps with courses in other departments like sociology.
This class is one of the best classes I have ever taken, and definitely the best Spanish class I have ever been in. I would recommend this class without a doubt! Take this class!
In this class you will learn about critical issues facing Spanish speaking communities in the United States, as well as issues affecting the United States as a whole. You will also gain first hand experience what it is like to combat these issues, as well as having the chance to engage with the Spanish language in a new and challenging way.
This is certainly a very unique course, and the intimate setting of the class is great for facilitating in-depth discussion on Latino culture and identity. However, the time and effort that I put into the readings/movies was not always worth the amount of analysis that we had in class.
This class is incredible and a must at Harvard!!
It is an amazing class, but you need to be willing to volunteer 4 hours per week
Great class for people looking to improve or maintain oral skills. Class is very discussion based. Make sure to choose an organization that you really enjoy or else the outside work will not be useful for you.
Great course! Humberto was a great TF who is really passionate about the topic and just an amazing teacher overall with a great sense of humor. The material covered in the class is very relevant and engaging. It teethes you a lot about issues surrounding immigration that you wouldn't necessarily be able to know jus form reading the news. The course is good for those interested in social sciences in general as well as immigration.
Make sure that you're interested in committing yourself to 4-5 hours of volunteer work per week. Don't be intimidated by the syllabus...the workload is VERY manageable. Reason to take this class: Humberto is one of the best TFs you'll have, ever. Everyone loves him. He's actually amazing. Take the course!
Awesome class. Loved the material (the movies were so-so though) and Humberto was fantastic. Take the course is you love foreign languages!
Taking this class really inspired me to get back into community service and made me feel much more involved at Harvard. Furthermore, Humberto is an incredibly eloquent, witty, and profoundly humane TF. He really caused me to reevaluate everything I understood about Latino Culture, and shed new light on topics that I previously hadn't considered. He made sure that everyone had an opportunity to speak and was receptive to questions. I really feel he has a mastery of these topics, yet he remained extremely neutral throughout our discussions. I always looked forward to going to spanish class, and would definitely recommend this course to anyone considering it.
This class was wonderful! The discussions we had really opened my mind to a different culture, and the work we did always felt as though it had a purpose. I loved working in the Latino community, and the service portion of the class really helps to make the course unique.
A fantastic course! Section is wonderful, the readings are interesting but not too long (a rarity at Harvard), and the opportunity to volunteer in the Latino community in Boston is really a cool chance to learn outside the classroom. I improved my written and oral Spanish, learned a lot about Latino history and issues in the US, and learned about the Latino community in Boston!
TAKE IT. The community service component of this course will change you - making you more comfortable speaking the language, of course... but also it will allow you to see a side of Boston that you might have otherwise overlooked. If you speak Spanish and are passionate about making a positive change in your community, this is the perfect class. If I could take it again, I would.
This subject matter is important, and the course is a rare opportunity to combine course work with community action.  I would have liked to see more analysis of issues of social justice surrounding latinos in the U.S., immigration policy, and causes and conditions of immigration to the U.S. (including U.S. foreign policy and economic policy, colonialism and neocolonialism, etc.)
great class; carmen is fantastic; the volunteering obligation can be a big time commitment, but if you really like the organization you're working with it's really enjoyable (i probably would have done similar volunteering anyway, so it was nice to get class credit for it and get some extra spanish experience)
This course provides the unique opportunity to put into practice the Spanish language skills students have learned in the classroom setting and engage with the Latino community in Boston through fun and meaningful volunteer work.
The class requires a big time commitment (time spent in the classroom, doing service, and doing homework), but it's completely worth it.  I learned so much about Spanish, and my fluency increased dramatically, especially as a result of the service component of the class.  I got a sense of the Latino experience in Boston, and I was able to improve my knowledge while doing a type of service that I enjoy.  A unique class that will get you out of the Harvard people and help your personal development as much as your academic improvement.  Amazing.
Definitely the best Spanish class I've taken at Harvard. This is the closest you can get to immersion without leaving the US, and I learned a ton about the Latino community in Boston.
I really enjoyed this class although i did not have the best experience with my organizations. Most people did have good experiences though so do not let that keep you from taking the class. ALL of the readings are interesting and not that long. There are also great movies in the course and the conversation during class is extremely interesting. It is also extremely easy to receive a great participation grade because you are constantly being prompted to talk. This was the only Spanish class that I believed would interest me and I was completely right about it being great.
Great class. It feels so good to be out helping in the community as your assignment!  Way better than doing problem sets or essays or pre-labs.  The work is meaningful and people driven, and you see the direct application of what you are learning in class.  Also, very relevant to us today with a large and growing Latino community in the US.
This class is a lot of work but it is so worth it. I enjoyed my community service, and I think that if you are looking for a challenging but unique way to better your spanish this is it. Also, Prof. Parra is wonderful.
Take this course to learn the real, non-classroom Spanish that you don't get in other courses. The survey of the Latino experience is good, but it does not go completely in-depth. The five required essays are manageable, but you should stRt early to allow time to edit. The volunteer experiences are variable. If you do not speak more Spanish than English in the first week, it is already time to have a delicate conversation with your host site or TF. You should always be thinking about the social and historical context of what you read in order to get the most out of the class. Overall, this class was very worthwhile. You would best take it without too much of a break after your last Spanish experience.
Great course. Pick service wisely.
Spanish 59's content is thin to the point of evaporation.  Readings are short but irrelevant. Discussions are long but go nowhere.  Service is only tangentially tied into the course through three tedious "Diario" exercises. If studying the Latino community in depth is your goal, RUN, don't look, elsewhere. Quite possibly the worst course of my Harvard career.
The volunteering component of this course is amazing.  The discussions are generally great, but sometimes a little unfocused and lacking in reading materials.
Good course. Really good chance to be involved in the community and use your spanish. Not very difficult, but requires time and energy. I'd definitely recommend it -- Carmen and Maria are wonderful.
This is a wonderful course. The instructors are terrific and the internship component is a real challenge for your language skills.
It is not an easy course and it is time consuming, but my outside service work was incredibly rewarding, albeit difficult.
Too much emphasis on Mexico instead of a broad analysis of latino culture, translated readings which distort the overall purpose of the readings/selection, lack of reflection of the community service one does outside class
Great way to practice Spanish and help the local community at the same time.
This class is great if you want some real-life experience in the Latino community. Your listening and speaking will improve quite a bit as you engage with natives, have discussions in class and write essays. But be prepared for a pretty hefty time commitment; this class if three hours of section time per week, pretty regular homework, papers, and a four-hour commitment to go work in a community organization in the Latino community. It'll pay off though, so it's really a trade-off.
Requires a lot of time, but is fun and exciting, and brings in application which is the best way to learn a language.
I really appreciated the opportunity to work at a bilingual school, as someone who hopes to teach in bilingual schools in the future. I also appreciated how our academic discussions in section informed my work in the field.
This is a creative and ambitious course that doesn't always quite live up to its goals. You will not always feel like your class time is being used well, but you will learn some new things about the Latino experience in the U.S., and you will (probably) enjoy your volunteer placement. Your Spanish skills will definitely improve. Like any class, the more you put into it, the more you will get out of it.
This is by far the best Spanish class I've taken at Harvard. The class does a brilliant job at incorporating relavent material into course work and our volunteering positions. If you can, take this class.
This course would seem to cover the same themes that a high school Spanish language course would cover, similarly exploring the general themes of Latino identity and culture. For this reason I almost didn't take the course, because such an attempt, in high school, had always had to unsatisfyingly superficial cultural discussion. But I'm very very glad I took this course after all. Unlike high school courses on similar topics, this course works. With remarkable authenticity it presents the Latino experience between the worlds of the US and Spanish speaking nations in all its cultural nuance. In this way it illustrates the powerful effect of Ethnography and ethnic studies, functioning as a very effective introduction to the discipline.
Definitely take this class!  It is so enlightening!
This is a really great class if you are looking to apply your spanish outside of the classroom. The volunteer component is really great. The assignments are also pretty easy and there are no exams or difficult papers. However, be prepared to spend a lot of time on this class (many hours a week when you include the class time and the volunteer work).
es un curso fantstico en todos los sentidos. las lecturas y pelculas te van a encantar; son tan interesantes como pertinentes en tu vida, y vas a aprender mucho al discutirlas en clase - profesora parra es maravillosa. por favor, toma este curso si puedes!
Do the readings. Do the readings. Do the readings. ENGAGE IN THE CLASS AS MUCH AS YOU CAN. You learn so much about yourself and about Latin American culture if you do what is required of you. You will get so much out of the class if you do this!
Although my volunteer work with this class was not as fulfilling as I thought it would be, it was still a very interesting experience and I am really glad to have had the chance to get to know the people and community I was working with.  The main component of this course however is the classroom time, which was a bit disappointing because I wish it was more focused on the volunteer work.
This is the best Spanish class in the department and a must take.  The community service is a lot of fun and I had a wonderful time at my organization and there is nothing like working in Spanish for four hours every week.  The academic parts of the course are not too bad and are very focused on conversation - not a lot of reading.  Try and get into Maria's section as she is fantastic. I am extremely pleased with the class.  Also I skipped Spanish 50 and took it after Spanish 40 and while difficult I felt that I was more than fine and had a fantastic experience.
The community service aspect is amazing and really helps to tie the course together overall.
The volunteering component is time consuming but rewarding
This is a great class to take! The volunteering gives you a new perspective on the Boston area and connects very well with the course concepts, which cover themes such as immigration across the Mexican-American border from Central America, infant migration, Spanish and English in the U.S., bilingual education, afrolatinos, and latinas. Homework includes reading poetry, prose, and academic articles and watching movies. Thenesoya is caring, well-prepared and always dynamic and energetic. What you learn in the classroom and in volunteering will almost certainly change or inform your perspective in a substantial way. If you are interested in the course, make sure to check the course iSite right now for the class application deadline!
TAKE THIS CLASS, especially if it's taught by Thenesoya! I loved Spanish 59 and it's probably my favorite class that I've taken at Harvard. It's by far the best Spanish class here (at least at an intermediate level since I haven't taken any upper level ones). The public service while time consuming was really rewarding. It was a great opportunity to speak with really underserved individuals within Boston's Spanish-speaking neighborhoods I otherwise never would have even visited. The class readings are super relevant to things you'll want to know when working with Spanish Speaking populations and overall was super interesting. Not only was this class great Spanish practice (and my conversation skills improved a lot) but also I learned a lot about multiplicity of latino identities. Thenesoya is probably the most insightful and incredible professor I've ever had. She really understood the nuances of each country's history and how things like the legacies of colonialism or intersectionality or systems of oppression affect both individuals and groups of people. It was really fascinating to learn about different forms of bilingual education and the different obstacles of immigrations that latinos face. Some of the course themes seem intuitive but ended up being a lot more "complicado" than I realized. The movies were also all gems. I'm still in mourning for Selena (but actually) after watching her movie for this class. The class also seemed to just attract a good group of people that otherwise I probably wouldn't have gotten to know. Also Thenesoya is extremely accessible outside of class if you have questions about any specific topics, want more practice speaking, or just want to chat about life. Overall the workload was super manageable since the work was all interesting and broken into small chunks. The essays and final project were straightforward in case you're worried about that.
I really enjoyed this class! Thenesoya was a great instructor and I felt like my Spanish skills improved a great deal. It was definitely more time consuming than previous Spanish classes because of the community service work, but it was all worth it!
Take this class if you want to get involved with the latino community in Boston.  Be warned, the volunteering does take a large amount of time (4 hours a week + up to an hour and a half of travel), but it's so worth it if that is what you want.The class themes are great as well, although sometimes the course feels a little "high-school-y" in that there are worksheets and silly-seeming in-class assignments.
time consuming but easy
Take this course!! It's a lot of time outside of the class but the volunteering experience is extremely valuable. You grow to think about the latino community in such a different light, very eye-opening course and Thenesoya is awesome!
This was a great, very rewarding class that often had very interesting class discussions about important issues in immigration and their experience in the United States, as well as Latino identity. I don't think the course recognizes however how big of a time commitment the service component is, and that needs to be taken in consideration. The service is 4 hours a week + travel time, which usually was an hour both ways or take a very expensive uber. They need to understand that, and assign less work accordingly.
This is a really great course to take if you're interested in the Latino community in the United States. The community service portion is unique, and getting to meet people very different from myself was one of the most instructive experiences I've had here at Harvard, but be aware that it represents a significant time commitment every week. Don't be like me and schedule it for a really inconvenient time. That being said, the rest of the course is not heavy - expect to write maybe 15 pages worth of material the entire semester. Most of your improvement with the language will come from volunteer work.  In class, Antonio is a riot, but at the same time we did get into some very involved discussions on the immigrant experience and Latino identity, which were pretty eye-opening, especially since people at Harvard are from such diverse backgrounds.
This course will help you become far more confident in your language skills. It will encourage you to truly think about the Latino community in the US and will give you a great background to approach current issues.
Get excited! it's a great course and you'll leave more informed about the world around you.
This class has a nice balance of written work, reading, film watching, and other types of assignments. Some good discussion. Not too much work outside of class besides volunteer commitment (which takes substantial time and money.) I think that the volunteer component can be extremely formative; it was for other students, at least. The organization I worked with (ASPIRING) had its volunteers doing art projects for four hours a week: not speaking Spanish with the students, not utilizing our skills for homework help, etc., which was a little disappointing. However, it was still neat to travel outside of Cambridge once a week and form relationships with other students at ASPIRING/students in this course. Make sure you have the time to commit to this course! Final art project is really fun.
You get to work as a volunteer in the community as well as analyze the theoretical and education components of the Latino community. Truly revolutionary class for my perspective on people.
Take this course. The volunteer aspect of this course is unlike any other and will really get you into the community. While you will find this course take more time than traditional spanish courses at Harvard you get SO MUCH out of it. By virtue of that, I think naturally the people who self-select to take this course are really quite committed to bettering their language skills - making for far richer and nuanced discussions about really important issues that face the Latino community in Cambridge and across the US.
If you have a background in the Spanish language and are interested in improving your skills, especially speaking skills, in a fun way that benefits the community then I would definitely recommend taking this course. The course is the normal 3 hours a week plus 4 additional hours of community service, which is definitely something to keep in mind, but the time you spend is worth the improvement you will see in your Spanish. Plus, the organizations you can work with for your service are all great, and you will have the opportunity to give back to community of greater Boston.
Excellent way to practice speaking spanish while at Harvard. Definitely do the readings.
I would tell them that it's the best spanish class that I took at Harvard; that not only did my language competency - especially speaking - improve tremendously, along with my confidence with the language, but that I also genuinely had fun. It was wonderful to be able to combine service with learning, and the topics about which we read were well chosen; I feel as if I actually do understand the latino experience in the US, despite not being latino myself.
If you want to take a class that allows you to use Spanish outside of the classroom setting, then this is the perfect class for you. Getting paired up with an organization and using Spanish in the Boston/Cambridge community was an amazing opportunity, and I learned a lot about the Latin@ community around Harvard. However, when you are signing up be sure that you can fit the 4 hour per week community service requirement (+ travel time) into your schedule. I found the material really interesting, and you definitely gain a new perspective on the Latin@ experience in the United States. Definitely take this class if you can!
This class is incredible. The subject matter was extremely relevant and felt immediately useful. The community service aspect was so eye-opening and valuable.
This class is definitely worth taking. Not much heavy work, and both the in-class and community parts of the course are very enjoyable. The only thing to be aware of is the travel time it takes to get to service sites in Boston and the four hours a week you have to spend there, as it might be tough schedule-wise.
This class was super interesting because we talked about really relevant things like the US-Mexico border, Dreamers, and things like that, and we had really good class discussions. It is also really cool to be able to engage with the Spanish-speaking community. However, the class is very disorganized and we received no grades on either of the two assignments we did in class. I liked that the class was focused on discussions and not assignments, but I literally have no idea what grade I got in the class and that concerns me greatly.
If you have time/want to volunteer and you speak Spanish then take this class! It really pushes you to speak Spanish for many hours per week and the volunteering is incredible. The content in the class is super relevant and interesting (Latino immigration) and I learned a lot about different Spanish speaking cultures.
This class is a really good way to improve your comfort speaking Spanish, but the overall experience will vary a lot depending on your TF and which organization you are assigned to volunteer with.  My experience was that the class was quite low workload and high-reward, but that my volunteering took up a fair amount of time (including travel) and didn't improve my language skills as much as I had hoped it would.
Somewhat interesting material, but this isn't really a good class. I don't feel like I learned much or that I improved my Spanish. I didn't necessarily enjoy the class. Plus, the volunteering aspect was uninteresting and a waste of time.
Humberto is an incredible teacher who knows his stuff and then some. Take the class to broaden your education on immigration and communities.
The class itself is not much work week to week but the community service does take up quite a lot of time. For me it was about 8 hours (including travel time) every week. However, the service work was incredibly rewarding and I really enjoyed it, so it was definitely worth the time!
This class was really eye opening for me. The materials and the opportunity to connect with the community outside of Harvard was priceless. By far one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. It should be a requirement for students filling the language requirement with Spanish.
Take the class if you want to get away from Harvard and see what the real world is like. You can see and put into practice the very things you learned in class.
This class is a huge time commitment, but completely worth it.
This class is a very stress free way to practice speaking Spanish through interest topics related to immigration and Spanish speaking communities and get out the Harvard bubble to volunteer. The only concern is that there are limited options for volunteer experiences and if you are not satisfied with your volunteer experience it is difficult to switch.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard and Humberto is the best TF I've had here.
I loved the voluntary work and hated the class discussion. This course very quickly became a hybrid of two separate parts. Community service work wasn't in any way correlated to what we learned during the class. I chose 59 because I hoped that this is going to be a class without emphasis on literature or reading. I thought that it is going to focus mostly on spoken Spanish. The community service met these conditions but the weekly 'discussion' was a literature class with a lot of hard, unrelated readings. So at some point I was confused how these two parts were supposed to be related to one another.If you want to take this class, you also need to take into account that Thenesoya, who taught it this year, is a little bit intense. She had an impression that the only thing that people do at college is studying for Spanish 59. If she thought that you are not good enough, she would call on you in front of the class to let you know about it. So if you plan to pull some all nighters, be ready for a friendly reminder from Thenesoya that you are, indeed, performing poorly compared to others. Also, make sure you are ready to agree with her that Europe and European Union are the best things that ever happened to humanity and that our government should take EU as an example. Regardless to 25% unemployment in Spain.All in all, this class was definitely a character building experience. Just make sure you are ready for it.
I loved this course! It was one of my favorite that I've ever taken at Harvard. It's very interactive and provides fascinating material to learn about the Latino community in the USA.
This is by far one of my favorite Spanish courses taken at Harvard. I learned so much about current political issues like immigration form and the unique cultures and ways of life in different Latino communities across the country. My volunteer experience with IBS was so incredible and I got a chance to meet Justice Sotomayor at the very end of it!
If you're excited about the community service aspect, this class is great. But it is a time commitment and is certainly not a class you should expect to slack off in.
This is a great course. You will emerge with a more profound understanding of not only the issues facing Latinos in America but also of the specific community you will be working with in Boston. Just make sure you have the time in your schedule to volunteer 4 hours each week in Boston. This is a perfect elective for senior year.
You will get the most of the course if you do as many of the readings as possible -- feeling prepared in class will allow you to feel more engaged by the conversations themselves and you'll feel more compelled to practice your Spanish. The volunteer work won't necessarily require that you speak Spanish all the time but many students had rewarding experiences that did put the class discussions into a 'real world' context.
The readings, topics, and discussions in this class were so fascinating and relevant! The community engagement portion of the class was also really rewarding, though it is a time commitment so be ready for that. Thenesoya was also a really fun and lovely TF, who had great insights to share and was a great facilitator.
