It's great, take it!
This has been a solid course: not thrilling, but interesting and laid-back.  Prof. Sommer is a wonderfully enthusiastic and clever professor, but her clearly articulated beliefs about bilingualism come up again and again without development throughout the course.  That being said, I learned a lot simply by doing the readings-- an eclectic and high-quality collection of texts from social theorists, novelists, and philosophers-- and supplementing Prof. Sommer's beliefs with my own.  The structure of the class makes for a very relaxed and pleasant semester: a weekly class, half of which roughly is discussion, weekly short responses, and not too much else.
This course is amazing. I highly recommend it. The topic feels more pertinent now than ever. I learned a great deal, and, what's more important, I felt that what I was learning was important, and that I'd take it with me long after having taken the course.
I would highly recommend this course to others! The course material is all very intriguing, and it only meets once a week. Profesora Sommers is incredible and extremely insightful. She's also a very nice and warm person.
It was a great class with amazing readings and amazing in class discussions. Professor Sommer is actually very friendly and interested in what her students have to say, and Matylda is a great teaching fellow. Sometimes, it was hard to keep a rhythm going week to week, since the class was only once a week for two hours. Like I said before, it was hard to know how well you were doing in the class throughout the semester, so more updates on that end would have been great, Overall, a great class, and I would recommend.
This is a really interesting course! I did not realize at first that it is essentially a philosophy class, but if I had considered it a philosophy class at first that probably would have scared me away. The readings are really interesting and the conversations about how bilingualism informs identity were super interesting and have impacted my understanding of the world/has changed my interactions with language on a daily basis.
Prof. Sommer does a masterful job of combining theoretical readings with literature to frame discussion about bilingual art, and really makes you question the way bilingualism and multilingualism have been portrayed in mainstream society.  Definitely a lot of dense reading, but none that I regret having done.
