Great class! Mariano is a great professor and keeps up the enthusiasm throughout the semester. He is also really easy to talk to and connect with, whether about Borges or not. If you're at all interested in learning about Borges, definitely take the class. The workload is very manageable as the class only meets once a week and there isn't a ton of reading. Borges never wrote a novel or anything so you really only read a few short stories or poems per week and discuss them, which is very lax.
This course taught me so much about not only Argentine literature, but literature in general. It was an excellent course that taught me how to look at writing in a new light.
I think the class was probably one of my favorites this semester and I think I would recommend it to anyone who likes Spanish literature.
Prof Siskind is wonderful. It's a lot of reading, so be prepared for that. It's not a lot of work besides that, and it's generally very interesting reading. I did find myself a little burnt out on Borges by the end, so also be sure you have a decent amount of prior knowledge on Borges and Argentinian history in general.
This class is incredible, Mariano is incredible, the TFs are incredible, the texts are incredible. It's a must-take at Harvard if you are at all interested in literature, theories of knowledge, or translation.
Mariano is brilliant and hilarious. Good Spanish comprehension is a must, but don't be scared away if you're rusty - I had to look up every other word in the dictionary but the readings are short enough that that was possible. Highly highly recommend.
This is a phenomenally taught class on Borges. Professor Siskind is obviously passionate about the material and he is extremely friendly and approachable with a great sense of humor. However, Borges is, in my opinion, a fairly dry and repetitive writer. Over the course of the class, I found the short stories were overwhelmingly similar in their style and their "point." If you've already read Borges and you aren't sure you like him, this class is unlikely to change your mind. If you like him or you're unfamiliar, dive right in!
SO GREAT. TAKE IT. MIND=BLOWN.
If the thought of taking this class has crossed your mind, you should do it. Mariano is a Borges machine, and the workload is very reasonable even if your Spanish abilities are lacking. Don't hesitate to make use of the flexible language policy (class is only conducted in Spanish per the department).
Borges is a wonderful writer, and this class will give you a great overview into his works! Prof. Siskind is passionate about the subject matter, and his enthusiasm really makes the class.
This class is excellent! Prof. Siskind is wonderful. Borges is divine.
This is an awesome class. The literature of Borges is very challenging in the best possible way. If you like the films of Christopher Nolan or mystery/detective fiction or complex storylines with huge punch lines or fiction described as history, you'll love the material of this class. I highly recommend it.
Borges! Mariano y Jernimo le dan vida a los textos de Borges. Borges es difcil leer y entender - todo lo que aparece ser es pero al mismo tiempo no es - y entonces es muy padre poder estudiar a Borges con profesores que les encantan sus textos. Tu como lector tambin le das vida a Borges con tu nueva lectura. Aprendes mucho - como pensar, como escribir, como deducir! Es una clase muy buena. Si te gusta la literatura o el lenguaje espaol, toma la clase!
If you're curious about Borges's work, would like to read more of it, or would just like to talk about it and have it thoroughly elucidated by Mariano Siskind, take this class. Advanced Spanish skills are necessary insofar as you'd probably want to understand what Prof. Siskind is saying, yet the "flexible language policy" he espouses makes it so that your spoken Spanish doesn't have to be perfect at all. Although lectures and readings are mostly in Spanish, you can speak Spanglish or even outright English if you want. The atmosphere is convivial and sort of cafe-like; you can talk when you want, interrupt lecture with interesting ideas, and bring in outside knowledge if its relevant. Prof. Siskind is a total insider with respect to contemporary Latin American literaturehe knows the game and might even set up a Skype meeting in class with a notable Argentine writer like he did this semester. He's also extremely accessible, overwhelmingly knowledgable, and always happy to chat with undergrads. If any of the above sounds enticing, take this class.
If you know and love Borges, you should take this class because Professor Siskind genuinely loves his works and will teach you about them like no one else can. If you've never heard of Borges, you should also take this class because it'll blow your mind.
This was a great class. Borges is wonderfully interesting, and Prof. Siskind's interest in the subject does Borges justice. You will learn a ton. You will get more out of 20 pages a week than you ever thought you could. Assignments are incredibly manageable. Only downside was a seminar-type class that also had section, so you really had to be prepared for 3 hours of discussion per week. Aside from that, nothing to complain about. Very reasonable assessments, excellent teaching staff.
A very interesting class. I found my self wishing it would be a bit more demanding, though - more opportunities to write would have really helped me digest the material. Rosario was a great TF.
Loved this class! The readings are all super interesting (and you can find English translations easily to make sure you're following everything if needed). Mariano is so much fun to listen to and talk with, as were the TFs this year, Alba & Rosario.
This class is excellent! Prof. Siskind is quite expert in Borges and really succeeds in bringing the material to life, both through historical contextualizing and literary insights. Even though section did not measure up the high intellectual standards that he set forth in lecture, this class is certainly worthwhile.
Great class; great subject material. Borges is fascinating and Mariano is one of my favorite professors. Not too much work; fun class.
This class is great because it is intensive as opposed to extensive; you don't read a ton, but you'll work in detail on the things you do read. Lectures are engaging, but you don't get the historical and cultural contexts you need to understand parts of the material until you get to class.
This was an enriching opportunity to dive deeper into one author, a chance we rarely get with the contemporary, broad way of looking at things.
Great course, not a lot of work, very interesting, great teaching staff.
Fantastic reading list - getting to delve into a single author, especially one as complex and fascinating as Borges, is really a treat. Mariano has wonderful things to say about the stories and essays (in fact, I would have preferred that the lecture-discussion be more of an outright lecture). A high level of spoken and written Spanish is definitely necessary, and I would say that if you have a background in literary analysis (rather than just Spanish language) you will be set.
The readings from this class will stay with you for the rest of your life--they're truly incredible. Mariano is a fun, warm lecturer, but he can be repetitious and rambling for 2 hour lectures.
If you want to learn about Borges from a scholar who clearly knows and loves him, take this course.
What a Harvard gem. If you're pursuing a Spanish language citation as a senior or just want to learn about Borges, this is your class. I loved it.
an extremely insightful look into Jorge Luis Borges. One of the best classes I have taken yet. Teaches strong interpretative and writing skills in Spanish.
This is a great class! Mariano is super knowledgable and excited about Borges, which makes it fun to listen to him in class. And Borges was honestly a genius, so reading him is a pleasure. Just be warned that this is much more of a lecture with section kind of class than it is a seminar (at least if current enrollment numbers continue).
If you come into this class not liking Borges you probably won't come to like him
Borges is an incredible writer who everyone should read at some point. Mariano tends to sometimes go off on tangents, but it's part of his charm and he generates a lot of enthusiasm for the subject matter. Also, Anna is a great TF!
Take this course! Mariano holds your hand as you tackle Borges' complex texts. You will undoubtedly love Borges' work, and walk away from the course thinking about the world in new ways.
This class is a very good introduction to Borges, and, besides being instructive, is also an entertaining class to go to, which only makes your desire to learn about Borges greater.
Take this class if you love Borges, but not if you have read most of the syllabus. I had read most of the syllabus, and found myself disappointed for much of the semester. Mariano and Anna are both infectious in their love for Borges which will certainly rub off on you. However, I definitely wish that the reading list was expand and that there were more chances to get feedback on my work. Hopefully, this class will be offered as a seminar again-- take it then, but I would be wary if it is again a lecture class.
Lectures can get very boring.
I'd recommend this course for anyone with moderate- to advanced-level Spanish (probably helpful to have taken it recently) who's interested in reading one of the greatest writers of the 20th century. Flexible language policy is especially helpful in this regard; you'll get more out of the class by doing the readings in Spanish but it's also helpful to read the English text as a backup, and Borges translates well.
This is a fantastic course. If you are interested in philosophy, literature, epistemology, fantasy, ways of thinking, knowing and living... take it.
If you are reading this and so not shop this class you are doing your life wrong.
Anna is a great TF! She's super understanding and makes the material easy to understand. Mariano is a great professor - he knows the material in and out, although he sometimes veers off track. This is a great class if you're interested in studying Borges and only Borges; however, it won't give you any real historical background if you're interested in that.
Great cultural class and Mariano is amazing. Dont miss lecture because there's no way to make it up and you dnt want to miss Mariano's commentary on Borges.
This course is not a big time commitment at all, and you get to read some really cool things. Borges has fascinating ideas, and Professor Siskind is immensely knowledgeable and enthusiastic.
The content of this course is fantastic. Borges is an amazing writer, and if you're not hooked after the first two weeks' readings, you will be later on. This course, however, is pretty unorganized. We often only got to 50% of the things we needed to cover during class.That said, if you're good at Spanish and enjoy modern literature, this course is a must take.
Really delightful, thought-provoking class with as much work as you want to put into it. Section with Ana was particularly helpful and interesting, and Mariano is adorable
One of the most intellectually stimulating classes I've ever taken. It's a joy to share in Mariano's passion for Borges.
Reading Borges can be quite strenuous at times but overall he's an amazing author to explore. This is a great course, I high recommend it! Mariano is absolutely magnificent. His enthusiasm on the subject really makes the class worthwhile. Anna is also such a great and supportive TF.
