If you like Spanish culture, you must take this class. You get to know Madrid better than if you actually went there. Weekly blogs are pretty fun. Overall, amazing class.
Take this course! Classes were fun, dynamic, and always interesting. Professor Cifuentes is outstanding, and he's always so motivated to engage with the class and present the material in an interesting way. Although the course is on Madrid, it really deals with so many other topics, and you should not at all be deterred from the thought of spending a semester studying a specific city. The material covers topics about city movement/planning (for Paris, New York, Barcelona and others, too), architecture, fin-de-siecle aristocracy/intellectuals/bohemians/politics, gender and sexuality, literature traditions, and more.Wonderful course and worth taking.
This class does require work, but it is well worth it. Professor Cifuentes is an amazing, and enthusiastic, teacher.
Great course that is well thought out and organized. Be prepared to be challenged with the ideas that you come up with. Must participate as much as possible.
This class is challenging and engaging. While you may not always agree with Cifuentes' analysis, or find some of the reading / video materials a bit far-fetched (or gross), he and the readings definitely raise interesting points and topics for consideration. Following contemporary news in Spanish helps focus the discussion around salient topics in today's Madrid - and the free trip to Spain is a huge plus.
Professor Cifuentes is one of the best teachers that I have had at Harvard and I would enthusiastically recommend taking a course with him.  He lays out the material in a way that is artful, interesting, and organized.  The course covered a variety of topics and I felt that we were able to talk about them in a detailed and deep way.
Literally the best language class I think I've ever taken. Strong Spanish skills are crucial, but aside from that the materials and assignments are accessible and interesting to all. Professor Cifuentes is even taking us to Madrid over J-term with a Harvard grant! No grammar is done in the class and some of the texts are difficult, so be prepared to work in the same way you would an English literature class, but just in Spanish.
Prof. Cifuentes provides an in-depth look at cultural developments in Madrid during the turns of the 20th and 21st centuries. Some of the best parts of the course included enlightening class discussions and the chance to watch several great Spanish films.
I really enjoyed this course. The professor was great--very energetic and enthusiastic about the subject. I would definitely recommend, but be prepared to do a lot of reading and know that 50% of your grade is class participation.
The unique nature of this course is its greatest strength. Not many courses I have taken are so sweeping in scope yet at the same time centered on a specific subject matter. I enjoyed the multi-faceted approach to our study of Madrid. Professor Cifuentes is a great professor too, as he is passionate about the material, engaging in the classroom, and provides good feedback on assignments.
Professor Cifuentes is one of the best professors at Harvard, and you will learn a tremendous amount in this course, while having a great deal of fun along the way. The topicMadrid at the turn of the previous two centuriesis certainly obscure, but you will gain a thorough understanding of the city and how it has evolved over the past 150 years. Definitely, definitely check it out!
