This class offers Latino students the chance to study their own experiences - in a room of peers that share those experiences.
This by far was my favorite course my first semester. I chose a very poor courseload in general and this class would help me relieve my stress; it would literally make my day. I enjoyed this class tremendously. Prof. Parra is amazing!
Profe Parra is like a mom - the class is small, so she gives feedback the whole while you are in class. Feels like home, since everyone speaks Spanish and she helps you if you have any trouble. Really cool, fun, chill class.
This class is so wonderful! It accommodates people of varying levels and covers subjects very relevant to latino students. I also appreciated that the class adapted to its current students.
Professor Parra is absolutely amazing!  She cares about her students deeply.  I deeply enjoyed all the themes of the class as they allowed me to engage with the Spanish language while reflecting and being introduced to exciting texts and topics not covered or discussed in very few other places at the college. It's definitely a unique class; Parra provides students with the rare opportunity to learn while engaging with their identity and validating our experiences.
I am a senior and I have never had a better teacher than Professor Parra. This class is the chance of a lifetime for any Latino/a student seeking to improve their Spanish regardless of their current level.
I loved it. The professor is amazing and you get a lot of attention.
If younger a native or heritage speaker of Spanish, take this class. This class explores both mechanics of the Spanish language and all Latin American cultures and societies.
Spanish 35 is the best class I have taken at Harvard quite honestly! Profesora Parra is such an amazing instructor because she not only has such a strong command on the language and the ability to locate your personal areas of development but is also warm and supportive. This course was a safe space for me especially since we discussed issues of latinidad, intersectionality, affirmative among others, which always were personal matters. The essays cover letter writing, reviews, creative descriptions, and academic writing and these are complemented by shorter reflection pieces. This class was challenging and relaxing at the same time and Parra worked to bring in movies and art (trip to the museum) to add nuance to our discussions and perspectives. If you can take this course, do it--it will be such a great learning experience. Parra is the best!
This is, without a doubt, one of my favorite classes during my time here. I've learned so much and it all seemed to happen so easily. We had a lot of say in what we did, and we learn a lot about each other. Parra is also just an amazing professor and being in a smaller class with her means a lot more attention. TAKE THIS COURSE
This class has been one of the best experiences I have had here. The discussions were so engaging, and everyone is so invested in the course, which leads to really great dialogue. Profesora Parra is a wonderful teacher, bringing us resources and knowledge we weren't aware of, but also a great facilitator allowing for the class's conversation to be from the class. The topics, while very important to me personally, also very relevant on a larger academic basis, providing us with working knowledge and frameworks that can be applied to other classes and areas of study. It definitely brought in sociological, linguistic, and science based frameworks.
I loved this class! My Spanish improved incredibly and I enjoyed going to class every day. It was interesting and relevant  rather than talking about spelling and grammar rules, we talked about real-world issues for Latinos and picked up the grammar along the way. It's a small class with a constructive environment, which helped me to learn not only from profesora Parra and class assignments, but also from my peers.This class is a lot of work, but it is very much worth it.
This class is absolutely amazing. If you are a Latin@ at Harvard, definitely consider this class.
An amazing course for students who wish to practice their spanish in a welcoming environment. Your learn a lot during the discussions we have in class. The final project is fun. If you are someone who was raised in a spanish speaking home and can speak and understand it at any level I highly recommend this class- its a lot of fun too!
This is a great class for Latinos who speak Spanish and/or understand it but have limited experience speaking it in a more professional or academic setting and don't know too much about grammar and writing rules. It's a better option than having to learn it as a foreign language. Moreover, the topics we go over in class are relevant to Latinos. We went over themes of identity, language in the U.S., and the cultures of our origin countries. It made the class a lot more interesting because the information was actually relevant to us.
So far this course has been the best class I have ever taken.  Not only did I learn a lot from the wonderful Profesora Parra, but I also learned an incredible amount from my peers, more so in this class than in others.  On a totally different note the films we watch for this course are great.
