For an advanced Spanish class, it does not get better than this. This class covers an extremely interesting topic in a literary and philosophical way without being overwhelming. You do need a solid grasp of the language if you want to do well, and you must be able to speak and participate. At the same time, that does not mean you need to be a native speaker. Professor Delgado is really engaging and always applies the themes of the class to broader questions in life. He is also really well versed in the subject and cares about it a lot.
Great course, assignments are very engaging and a pleasure to study.
This is a very interesting class with a very light workload, and gave me a lot of inisight into Mexican history and contemporary Mexico even though it focused only on the Mexican Revolution. Readings were great, and I really enjoyed the two weeks when we watched documentaries. Members of class often weren't very engaged (probably because of the low workload - maybe lots of people just taking it because it was an easy class), but the quality of instruction and materials in the class is extremely high and I definitely learned a lot.
Sergio is an amazing professor: he is brilliant and down to earth.
TAKE THIS COURSE!!!!
This class has interesting course material and Sergio is a great teacher; however the assignments and grading can be difficult for nonnative speakers. You need to be confident in your spanish abilities and talking about kind of random topics in a second or third language. Also there were a ton of native speakers taking the class so youre already at a disadvantage.
Sergio is the best instructor! His lecture style is insightful, funny and inclusive. He is an amazing person so I would recommend taking all of his courses!
Extremely interesting, great lectures, not particularly exhaustive or demanding, genuinely improves speaking and writing ability.
The level of Spanish is pretty high, and the reading isn't always easy either.
This is a great class if you're into literature or arts of any sort--it's not really a class on the Mexican Revolution, so don't expect to get an expert-level historical knowledge of the subject. Instead, it's mostly analysis of different kinds of art and culture that sprung up during and after the Revolution, all of which is underappreciated and worth a look. Take it for Sergio's awesome insights into all aspects of life and art, and don't worry about the language requirements; if you're passably decent at Spanish you'll do fine (although there are some pretty lengthy texts in the middle of the semester).
This was a fantastic course. Sergio is incredibly knowledgeable and really cares about his students. The course load is very reasonable and readings are more of a pleasure than a burden. Participation is encouraged in "lecture" as well as section, which makes the class fairly student-driven. I highly recommend this course for anyone interested in Spanish-language literature and learning more about the fascinating themes surrounding the Mexican Revolution.
Profe. Delgado is a super intelligent, well-read, and interesting teacher! The materials for the class were really interesting, and the combination of great teaching and interesting topics made class and section discussions really great.
A class like this is a great opportunity to improve your Spanish.  Sergio communicates very clearly.  Interesting course materials.  However, the intellectual framework for understanding them is lacking: one of those vaguely indignant, pseudo-social-critique-type approaches that doesn't quite attain the rigor necessary to make itself intellectually compelling.  Most assignments consist of one-page essays.  The feedback on this written work was elegantly composed and extremely helpful, but the one-page requirement was quite strictly enforced.  Because there are serious limits to the ideas that can be articulated in one page, the intellectual content of these essays was usually middle-school level.  Thus they were not much fun to compose.  The final essay of five pages was an excellent exercise.
Make the most of this course. Do the readings, complete the assignments, and engage in the discussions! Your grade will take care of itself.
