This class had way to much reading and no one ever did it. It was not suited to the level of students in the class. People put almost no effort into the class and therefore it wasn't that fulfilling.
The class was fine. You will not get a lot out of it if you do not do the readings, although the readings are extensive and can be difficult to get through.
Good course materials, but WAAAAY too much reading. Think 250-300 pages in 2 days. Unless you are very fast at reading in Spanish, I may not take this course, even though the discussions are nice and I actually learned stuff.
Great option for an upper level Spanish course. A lot of reading, but kind and enthusiastic professor, reasonable assignments, and you leave with a solid understanding of a central theme in Latin American literature.
Really difficult but worth while
If you're interested in Latin American literature and culture, this is an interesting course taught by a really great professor. The reading load is a little much, but it is not really necessary to complete it all as long as you grasp main themes and can discuss it in Spanish in class. A great class if you're trying to get a citation or a secondary!
Don't take this course unless the volume of reading is decreased. Yes, the topic is super interesting. I loved learning about Latin America through the lens of civilization and barbarism. However, I feel like I wasted an entire semester on a class I never read for, when I could have been much more engaged elsewhere. THERE IS SO MUCH READING AND IT IS NOT HUMANLY POSSIBLE TO DO IT ALL. TAKE SOMETHING ELSE WHERE YOU CAN READ ALL THE MATERIAL.With all that being said, Dr. Legnani is super nice and engaging. She's the kind of teacher you want to keep visiting even after her class ends. She has also made me feel more comfortable with the language.
Nicole was very nice and enthusiastic and both her and Sergi were always willing to help.  The amount of reading for each class was a bit much, and it was often a choice between not reading and doing other coursework.
While Nicole and Sergi are great, the amount of reading you have to do is actually insane. There is no way to possibly do it all, yet that is what they expect of you, and the midterm and final are cumulative papers on all of the works you have read. Only take this class if you are obsessed with spanish literature and have loads and loads of time on your hands.
