I enjoyed analyzing the readings and seeing how race is expressed through art, poetry, plays, and novels. I didn't really enjoy the teaching because the professor and TF were very inflexible about deadlines and didn't build much rapport with the students.
This is a great course for students interested in studying Spanish culture, instead of basic grammar or literature
too much reading, not enough focus on grammar, repetitive themes
The material and topics are fascinating. The professor and TF went out of their way to be helpful, so take advantage of that. The class really ends up being what you decide to invest in it through your own work in the readings because the "lecture" portion is often dry.
Stay on top of the readings! You have to invest the time to get the benefit of class discussion, and it really is worth your while.
This course is very difficult.  Do not overestimate how good you are at Spanish, or underestimate how much time this course will require.  Finally: make sure you are interested in the specific mediums this course uses.
As someone very interested in race relations and culture in general, this class was SO GOOD. It was great to have a class in Spanish about a subject, rather than a class just about the language. My reading and writing improved a lot, as did my knowledge of the Caribbean and understanding of racial and cultural intersections. Take it if you are interested in the material and want to read and write a lot.
I thought the course material was not incredibly interesting, although I did learn a lot about race relations in Cuba, Dominican Republic, and Puerto Rico.
This course has a great sociological element to it that many other language classes lack. It is the best upper-level class I have taken in the RLL department.
Kahlil does a great job of engaging students during class. The class syllabus jumped around many countries in the Caribbean but the themes analyzed were all interesting and worth learning about. Overall a strong understanding of Spanish is needed to fully participate in the class.
I really enjoyed this class, but was pretty overwhelmed by it at the beginning. Be prepared to do quite a bit of literature analysis. It's not too hard if you're good at spanish/ reading literature, but if that's not your thing it can be tough.
You should be confident in your abilities to read Spanish, as some of the readings can be dense and tricky. Other than that, the course is really fun. The professor is really nice and it's easy to speak in class and not get nervous.
This course it pretty cool. The things you learn about are interesting, and not often talked about. If you are interested in studies of race and gender, this course will interest you. However, the teacher is a little awkward, and you have to be prepared for that.
