fun easy class to add to your citation
Super fascinating class that does so much more than simply study literature or works of art. We have interesting discussion about current events and global issues. Great way to improve your spanish while being interested in what is being taught.
This is a wonderful class if you are looking to finally take a class in Spanish about the spanish culture rather than just a class on random material taught in spanish! Would highly recommend! Adriana is amazing and very lenient with deadlines!
This course is interesting in the beginning but you quickly realize how biased it is; it gets pretty annoying to only see the dark side of the US's actions in Latin America.
Spanish 61N is a great and very unique Spanish course.  The course material feels very interesting and relevant to daily life.  Also, the proyecto de negocios gives you the opportunity to explore a corporation that especially interests you.
A great class for anyone interested in learning about the questionable practices of U.S. companies and the U.S. government in Latin America. Section discussion was always engaging and the assignments were well-paced--I never felt overwhelmed.
Take this class. Gutierrez is a blast to learn from, and work is very doable.
It's a fun, discussion-based class and you learn a lot.
If you can speak Spanish (like actually speak Spanish) they this is a pretty fun class. The subject matter is awesome and allows for a good amount of creativity to go along with it
This course ended up being much more work than I expected, with hours of readings + a composition/test/presentation weekly. Additionally, it wasn't focused as specifically on business as I would have expected. That said, I enjoyed the course overall and improved a lot through it. I would recommend reading through the syllabus to determine if you're actually interested in the material you'll be studying.
This class is great - Profesora is really sweet and a great teacher, and the course matter itself is really interesting. My Spanish definitely improved because class time is almost entirely discussion.
The professor is very intelligent and very flexible with deadlines if you need it. Plus you'll learn a lot.
Before taking the course and arriving at Harvard, I wasn't sure I'd be an RLL concentrator, but now I know it is what I want to do!
There's a wide variety of readingsbe prepared to spend a lot of time on then. It's fun, overall.
This course is great! You'll learn about business through the lens of journalists' reports, literature by acclaimed authors, and movies. The presentations, especially the one on the business you choose, help you to practice public Spanish speaking as well as look into a business that interests you. Spanish language practice, learning about businesses and their potential dark sides, and expanding your knowledge of Spanish written works and movies- what more could you ask for?
I think this class really gave me true knowledge about Latin American business practices in terms of outside and inside corruption. It taught me about real-world events that other spanish classes haven't really taught me. I really enjoyed this class, it was my favorite spanish class here, and I highly recommend it.
I loved this class! The only minor criticism would be to use literary sources less, and to instead focus on contemporary issues through policy, politics, etc.
This class covers a lot of really interesting topics and isn't too much work. However, the literature is often difficult and most of the section forgoes reading it, leading to awkward classes. Profesora is lovely, but she makes it clear if she likes you or not, and sometimes that can be offputting.
I would tell students that there are a lot of assignments, and they're not always easy, but ultimately it's a rewarding course.
This is a fantastic class. It is not super stressful (you can get away without doing the readings super closely since we go over them pretty well in class) and you cover an incredible breadth of material. The topics covered are diverse and very engaging. The structure also works well because apart from the exams (which are scheduled, but she circulates topics/questions the day before so you can prep and feel good going in), everything else if on your own time (i.e. you pick when you are giving your two presentations). Adriana makes the class really engaging and I'd highly recommend it, particularly if you're interested in Latin America. The course title is pretty misleading--this is much more of a Hist and Lit-esque class with a bit of the political background infused. It's really a great mix of materials, and Adriana runs class so well that I found myself pretty excited to show up for class, unlike other Spanish classes where I'd feel nervous about trying to participate and sounding dumb speaking in Spanish. Overall, a well-designed course run by a fantastic instructor!Background: I had taken up to AP language in high school, Spanish 50 at Harvard and spent a summer in the Spanish speaking country. This preparation was certainly sufficient and I think most of the others in the class had similar prep. Adriana is incredible about encouraging people to speak up in class and not be too nervous about making grammatical errors.
Take this course!  Adriana Gutierrez is amazing, and is so fun.  The discussions would sometimes get dull, but the oral presentation and business projects are fun and not too stressful.  This class is great for finishing up citation requirements.
This class is very enjoyable, but there are a lot of readings and essay assignments. Be sure to stay on top of the readings because it is really difficult to keep up in class without the knowledge from them. Go to office hours, Adriana is very nice and encouraging.
Really, really great class. Gutierrez is such an amazing person and scholar. I was exposed to a wonderful collection of narratives that we in the English-speaking, Western world aren't familiar with. We organically learned about history, but it is not a history class. Similarly we learned a bit about the the organization of multinational corporations, although PLEASE TAKE NOTE this is not a class about business itself. It's not a class on the history of business, it's not a business spanish class, it's really closest to a sociology class. Best spanish class I've ever taken by far, and I've taken quite a few.
Very interesting class that helps you look critically at business practices in Latin American and the effects of global capitalism on societies. The professor is great, very genuinely cares about the students and works very hard to ensure students remain interested and are learning at all times. Would highly recommend this class.
OH MY GOSH TAKE THIS CLASS. Professor Gutierrez is incredible. I learned so much.
Engaging and fun class, with an environment where you'll meet others and build connections and learn about Latin America and the advent of business development, coupled with history, colonialist ideas, influences across the world, and modern-day issues.
Adriana is very opinionated, but she genuinely cares about her students and wants to help them succeed.
This was an amazing class. To classify it as business spanish would be limiting its scope, as there are so many other topics such as business history, ethics, and culture that this course covers.  I would definitely recommend taking this course, and I think it's the perfect way to finish off a citation.
This class was definitely not just a conversational Spanish course.  It taught a lot of history from a non-history department, which I didn't particularly enjoy, but there were academic Spanish discussions.
Professor Gutierrez is wonderful and leads amazing discussions! The readings and movies for this class are fascinating and teach us such relevant information about the world around us and our responsibilities to promote more ethical business practices. Definitely take this class if you want to learn about something that will change your life and you will remember years from now.
This class is really fun! It's relaxed but definitely important to do most/all of the work to get the most out of it. I really like that grammar isn't the focus, and that it's a real humanities class - I would've loved the subject matter in English too, which is what I really look for in a spanish class.
This class is fantastic and I highly recommend taking it, as it's a great way to fulfill a Spanish citation or a secondary field in Spanish.  The class will force you to think about multinational corporations and their impact on business and society in Latin America and around the world, and will likely have a big impact on your career or philanthropic aspirations.  This is one of the classes that you'll remember and look back on fondly long after you've graduated from Harvard.  Dr. Gutierrez really generates enthusiasm for the material and the course will likely entice you to pursue one of the course topics further.
This course is a great higher level Spanish course - probably the first course in which you won't really focus on grammar but will simply discuss and write a lot. If you are not keen on writing, do not take this class. If you are looking for a relatively chill upper level Spanish that covers a variety of different themes, this class is a must. Honestly one of the best classes I've taken here.
This is an awesome spanish course. You will get a lot of practice speaking and writing, and the subject matter is really interesting and feels relevant to daily life.
Very good class. The readings are very interesting as is the historical context that you get for current events. Very enlightening.
Excellent course to practice your spanish, learn about the economic relationship between American companies and latin america, and think critically about the world
This is an amazing class that is really interesting and fun! Adrianna is the best professor, and the format of the class - an hour discussion followed by a 30 min student presentation - makes the time fly by and really facilitates conversation and learning. The material is fascinating - I learned so much about the history of the exploitation of South America that I never knew before. A great great class! Highly recommended!
I walked into this class worried that the subject matter would be overly biased - pro-indigenous, anti-multinational.  Yes, this was the overall theme of the course, but it went into depth, questioned itself, and acknowledged that there was no easy solution to world problems.  I walked out of the course understanding why the well-being of peoples matters more than following economic models.  The compositions ask thought-provoking questions, the answers to which sometimes seemed more like BSing than like anything else, and the exams were manageable.
This class is a lot of work.  Some of the readings can be a bit dense.  The videos and plays were excellent and more in line with the themes of the course.  The assignments are fair as are the exams.
This is a great class! Adriana is a great teacher, and the discussions and readings are always very interesting. It is a lot more work than expected, with a lot of reading and almost weekly compositions.
This is a truly amazing course. Prof. Gutierrez will open your eyes regarding Latin America and the effect that the United States and multinational companies have had on the region and its people.
Absolutely take this class.  One of my favorite classes I've taken in the Spanish department, as well as at Harvard.  It is engaging and does not require a ton of busy work.  I feel like both my writing and speaking skills improved over the course of the semester.
Great class for advanced Spanish speakers of any academic background.
Professor is beyond amazing. She is SO NICE and really wants you to improve! The class can be a little tedious at times but it's totally worth it. You feel a lot more confident by the end!
The topics are cool because they'll be things you'll probably never talk about in any other class but this also makes it hard to comment on things. Professor's pretty funny and flexible if you want to work with her.
This is an awesome class.  Professor Gutierez is fantastic.
If you're interested in development, business, ethics, or just looking for the next spanish class after 50 or 59, this is definitely the class to take. My favorite of the semester.
This is a great course to take if your Spanish education so far has been culturally centered more on Spain than Latin America - you will learn a lot about current problems in Latin America and the effect that multinationals have had on either creating or combating those problems. The class has a bit of an anti-capitalist bent, but as long as you keep that in mind it's a great course.
Profesora is the best!! I learned a lot of important stuff about Latin America from a different perspective which is crucial. I also feel like a much more aware and conscious consumer because of this class.
Reading manageable, teaching fantastic. Like al language classes, a lot depends on your classmates.
this is an amazing class on latin american business ethics and latin american influenced issues. Profesora Gutierrez is a passionate teacher and amazing lady!
I really enjoyed this class and the subject matter. Although it is not explicitly a class on ethics or business (ts more of a langauge class), the topics, readings, and movies were all very interesting. Workload is fair and prof is great
This is such a great class. Such an interesting way to improve your Spanish-language skills!
This class is very unique in the structure, the high-level of thinking and discussion at that high level, and the subject matter. The structure covered well all points of the subject, discussions were very interesting and relevant to life, and the subject matter is relevant and interesting.Adrianna is great: she is knowledgeable, stimulates discussion, is very friendly and understanding, and is just a cool person in general.But, this course is a fair amount of work. You can get by if you don't do the readings, but you lose a lot without them. Be prepared for long readings in dense Spanish every week, 6 compositions, 2 projects, and 3 tests throughout the semester (or some mix of those--bottom line: it's a lot).I think it's worth it!
This is a wonderful course taught by an excellent professor. I would have liked it to explore the actual economics side of businesses and their practices a little more, but it was overall a really wonderful course. There are some quite time-consuming assignment, such as very long readings and a long documentary to watch. Quite a worthwhile class!
This is a laid-back, fun, and engaging Spanish class.  If you do the readings and participate in the discussions, I think you'll find that you learn a lot and that it's really not all that much work.
This is an interesting course in its own right, and an excellent way to improve Spanish.
TAKE THIS CLASS!  It's a great way to enhance language skills while learning incredible relevant material in history, ethics, and business.  Professor Gutierrez is amazing, and the class is really well taught!  As long as you put a little time into your weekly compositions, the work is really manageable.
Adriana is FANTASTIC
Adriana is fantastic, and she really cares about what she is teaching. She's understanding if you need extra time or something and she makes you care about what youre learning. Definitely take this class, its well worth the time. The small sections are also really nice, so you get to work on your speaking without being threatened and with time to correct you.
It's a pretty easy class, the professor is chill, and the content is amazing. I loved it!!
It's a course that you can get as much out of as you want. If you are interested in the material and choose to involve yourself heavily, it can be very rewarding.
This is a great way to improve your writing ability and to use the language outside of an "academic setting" that is focused on literature
Dra Gutierrez is a great professor!  I have really enjoyed the class.
You have to take this course. It is the best Spanish course in Harvard by far.
The course taught me about the most recent and upcoming businesses in Latin America, but it also taught me about the consistent violation of human rights these businesses are constantly involved in.
This class is great! Your Spanish definitely improves from the compositions. Class is fun & so are assignments.
This is one of the most fun Spanish classes I've taken. Be ready to talk. It's great.
excellent course
This class was amazing! Had a profound impact on my learning and language abilities. Was also a lot of fun!
Take the section with Paul
Good class. Keep up with the reading and youll be fine.
I highly recommend this Spanish class! The course title may sound dry, but the class is really fun and the topics discussed (worker exploitation, drug trafficking) are very interesting. The presentations and final project (a video) are fun and allow you to pick a topic that interests you, and the compositions throughout the semester are short and painless. Professor Gutierrez is really nice and great at facilitating class discussions, and gives good feedback on written work.
Fantastic class. Gutierrez is excellent and the material is challenging. I felt like my Spanish improved considerably, and learning about the history of businesses (esp American ones) in Latin America is interesting. One of the few classes here where I can say I've really enjoyed learning the material; I didn't know much about it and I think it's important to know. Readings can be tough but the assignments are fair.
This class is a lot of fun! You get a lot of practice speaking, writing, reading, and listening. My skills definitely improved and I learned a lot from my classmates.
It's a great class to develop your conversational skills and you get good practice in giving semi-professional presentations.
This class was very advanced in its literature, but it did not fulfill my expectations as far as speaking goes. The course material was difficult, but informative if you are able to put enough time into reading all of it.
There is a lot of reading but it is worth it. Very different from Spanish courses before it, but it helped my fluency more than any other class I've taken here.
This class is unbelievable. I was terrified of it on the first day because all the other classes I had taken in Spanish had focused mostly on grammar, and this class felt like a normal class that I could take in English...only taught in Spanish. However, I ended up learning so much, not being overwhelmed, and having a blast getting to explore such interesting themes in such a small, close-knit group. I had the best experience possible and recommend this class highly.
There is a lot of reading, but if you take your time with compositions and check over your work, the class is fine.
Profe. is amazing! Take the class!
It's a great class, at once challenging and fun. Recommended if you took Spanish 40 and/or 50 and still want more practice before heading into classes with more native speakers.  There's not much time explicitly devoted to grammar review, but the class does offer a good, engaging platform for practicing oral and written Spanish.  You also learn quite a bit about the issues and problems Latin American countries have confronted as a result of globalization and the rise of multinational companies (hint: this class is not "business Spanish"!)  Definitely get Paul if you can.
Spanish 61n was wonderful! I really enjoyed it each week. Although it was more difficult than the traditional language class, I learned a lot about Latin America in all aspects--cultural, societal, and global. The workload is not too heavy, and DO IT because it makes each 1.5hr class comprehensible and interesting. The projects can take up a little too much class time, but they're also a nice break.
Readings can be a lot but overall the course is definitely worth it. Paul is a great teacher, discussions are both interesting and really fun, and there is no way that your Spanish won't improve. Take it!
This is an interesting topic but don't expect to learn much about it beyond what you could infer from the course description--businesses are bad because they exploit people and harm the environment and traditional ways of life are better. The way to succeed in this course is to be as critical of businesses and the capitalist system as you can. Doing the reading is unnecessary; just know the thesis of the articles you're supposed to read (hint: it's that businesses are bad) and the basic idea of the stories and books.
Really interesting subject matter.
This is a great course! Not a ton of focus on grammar, so you'll have a lot of opportunities to read, write, and speak in Spanish. The material is interesting and provides fodder for interesting debate, so I would recommend doing as much of the reading as you can! Take it!!
Small wonderful class with great discussion topics and assignments. Really well taught
This class is a lot of fun. Alberto is one of the best TFs I've ever had (not just in a Spanish class), and none of the material is too difficult to understand. As long as you stay on top of the readings and assignments, and leave time for the compositions, then the course will go great. Otherwise, it's really easy to fall behind.
This class was fascinating and a ton of fun. I looked forward to it every week. Take it if you can. Alberto will be away from Harvard next year, but if he can be your TF after that, you should absolutely take this class. Readings were interesting and challenging, but the whole course felt quite laid back. I loved it.
Only take it if you were interested in the topic and if you really love Spanish
Great spanish class. I had just come back from a semester in latin america and this spanish class was the best I shopped - super interesting because we cover very relevant topics to US-Latin American relations today: drug trade, multinational corporations, oil spills, dictatorships, the environment. And we do it through a variety of medias - readings, movies, plays, poems, oral presentations. Just a really interesting class. Also, its a small seminar which means lots of opportunity for talking and conversing.
This is a wonderful introduction to the question of business ethics in Latin America. Professor Gutierrez encourages thought-provoking discussions, and it is clear that she cares about each and every one of her students. The course materials are great (especially some of the films), and for the second half of the semester, a lot of the course material is presented via presentations given by fellow classmates -- it's a really fun, interactive way to learn. Overall would recommend with enthusiasm -- it is a bit of work (6 compositions, 3 exams, 2 oral presentations, and a final project) but all of the assignments are fair and doable and ultimately, you get a lot out of them!
If Alberto is the teacher then you are in for a treat! If not, it is still a good course.
This class is very important. I highly recommend it as an American consumer who had never taken the time to think about how multinational business affects those who are not consumers. It looks at the history of large corporations within the Americas, and it challenged me to think about why we should be responsible consumers. Most of the assignments are left up to our interpretation, so we can write about what we feel was the most important part of the unit/reading and offer our own solutions. The tests are fair and creative, allowing you to pick what you would like to explore. Professor Gutierrez is also one of the best I have had at Harvard.
This was a very engaging course, and especially useful if you wish to improve your speaking. The class is almost entirely discussion-based, and you are asked to make a few oral presentations throughout the semester as well. We did write essays and take written exams, but the emphasis was on your ability to communicate out loud. (And Alberto was the best!)
Get Adriana if you can - she's a great teacher! She really cares about her students and is very understanding. The class is harder than all the Spanish classes in lower levels but well worth your time if you're sincerely interested in the language and culture.
A fantastic class! Highly recommend! Professor Gutierrez is a master at creating interesting discussion during class. Every single class is engaging. Also, the readings are genuinely interesting. I highly recommend this course!
Interesting and great class- some weeks have a lot of work, but generally very light workload.
TAKE THIS CLASS.  The topics of discussion are far reaching, the reading material is engaging, the supplementary films are both informative and entertaining, and the individual background research you do on businesses in South America provides an excellent global perspective.
Be prepared to put in a fair amount of time to do the readings, but they're on the whole fairly interesting. Adriana is a great professor but will push you to know your stuff
This class is a great way to improve speaking, reading, and writing skills. I also learned a lot about Latin American cultures and specific problems relating to business ethics in Latin America.
It's well-taught and there isn't too much work. You will learn a lot.
Try your best to get Paul.
A wonderful, wonderful course that will really open your eyes to the controversial practices of multinational corporations in Latin America. Profesora is so enthusiastic and passionate about the material, and she cares so much for her students. TAKE THIS COURSE!
Take this class if you want to have a Social Studies class in Spanish -- all of the major themes of privilege, oppression, equity, etc. are covered and a lot of my material overlapped!  Professor Gutierrez is AWESOME.  She is very smart and deeply thoughtful about issues of justice in Latin American countries.  She also helped my Spanish a lot, and showed genuine interest in what everyone had to say.  She facilitated conversation like a pro, and the class didn't have that awkward, everyone-is-scared-to-mess-up feel.
This class was a great way to engage with issues concerning ethics relating to business. Put time into the readings. Watch any movies or additional videos. But overall, this class is more about engagement with the material than tough or tricky language.
As has been said every year in the Q guide over the last few years, this class is awesome. The only thing to note is that the workload can get surprisingly heavy with like 6 essays, 3 exams, 2 presentations and 1 final project in addition to 60+ pages of weekly readings in Spanish. It can be particularly tail-heavy. Apart from that, I greatly enjoyed every aspect of this class and it was one of my favorite classes overall.
This course is great! The materials are very diverse (including multiple films), interesting, and incredibly relevant to current events and issues in our society. The workload isn't too terrible, and the exams are such that if you prepare beforehand, you should be able to do really well. What's great about this course is that there's much less focus on learning Spanish grammar and vocabulary itself, but rather on learning it through reading and discussing the course materials. So if you don't like rote memorization, this course is for you. Also, the ninety minute class usually goes by pretty quickly; Adriana Gutierrez is excellent at leading fascinating and thought-provoking discussions!
This class is nice way to improve your speaking and reading skills. Professor Gutierrez is great and generates a lot of enthusiasm for the topics. The only thing I would say is that this class can take a little bit of an anti-capitalist perspective at times which may bother some people.
Spanish 61n is a wonderful Spanish course that helps students improve their written, auditory, and oral Spanish skills while learning about contemporary problems facing Latin America (i.e. exploitation of indigenous populations, presence of large corporations, drug cartels, corruption, etc).  I had the pleasure of taking this course with Profe. Gutierrez, who did an excellent job introducing students to these complex topics while helping them understand new Spanish vocabulary.  I absolutely loved this course!
I loved this course.  Never before did I realize how literature in history has influenced events, such as the play I took Panama in helping to motivate the treaty Torrijos-Carter or how the documentary Crude shed light on the Chevron petroleum dispute in Ecuador.  I loved learning about these historical events and how they continued to impact trade or business relations in the present.  I loved this course.
While I liked Professor Gutierrez and a lot of the content, I think that a lot of the discussion got repetitive, and I found it hard to focus on the oral presentations. That being said, I do think that the oral presentations were a great opportunity to practice speaking skills, and that I did get a more global perspective about ethics.
Good spanish class to finish a citation, after Spanish 50. Probably the best, most popular option. However, class is a bit disorganized, and it's all the same, one-sided themes (about U.S. colonization, exploitation, and unethical business practices in Latin America).
This class covers very interesting material. The readings are rather long, and tend to be mostly fiction/literature (which I was not necessarily expecting), but they are interesting and reading pays off. The class can sometimes stray into feeling much more lecture-heavy though it is taught entirely in section, but there are plenty of opportunities to speak and practice spanish.
This class is amazing! It's pretty much like taking a Cult&bief class but in spanish. It's about 15 students so discussion is the core of class time. The readings are hard but if you're lost, the rest of the class probably is and she understands that. Professor Gutierrez is lovely and so dedicated to improving your Spanish. Don't be scared by the language requirement stuff--I barely qualifies to be in this and it was not a stretch at all. It's hard in the fact that the essays and exams require time in order to get an A, but it's completely worth it. Discussion is enlightening--she is great at discussions and participation is a huge bulk of your grade so if you're not great at writing/reading, just raise your hand! The presentations also sound scarier than they are...she just wants unique ideas. It's about what you're trying to say in this class, not necessarily how you say it. I highly recommend this class!!!
Its a very coold experience to study spanish "by accident". We learn a lot about latinamerican perspectives on neoliberalism/multinational companies
Not a strong Spanish class. Wonderful and engaging professor, but her lectures often took away from discussions. We spent almost half of the total class time listening to one or two student presentations each session. Assignments often felt vague and confusing. The professor made little attempt to review or improve our grammar (she rarely corrected us in class), so I might recommend jumping to 70 if the course interests you.
I very much enjoyed the readings and themes discussed.
Alberto is incredible - well educated, energetic, understanding, willing to help, and expresses clear interest in the material. High level of comfortability in speaking in Spanish will make you excel in this course. Take it with Alberto if you can - highly recommend!
The material is very cool if you are at all interested in Latin American business.
Great class! Profesora Guiterrez is a great teacher, extremely helpful and understanding.
Definitely different from the course description. This class is not particularly about ethics or business but rather about human rights and the environment as impacted by business. Be prepared for more of a social justice lens than a business lens
I thoroughly enjoyed Spanish 61. Not only did it require minimal work outside of class (with the exception of several larger assignments that were ultimately interesting and enjoyable), but the subject matter was also very interesting. Sometimes it did feel a little disjointed, but I liked the fact that we engaged with so many different materials (film, literature, scientific articles, history).
This is a wonderful Spanish class! Eugenio is a very dedicated teacher. Over the course of the semester, your writing, speaking, and reading will improve dramatically.
Alberto is awesome, and this class is really interesting
Interesting class! Not a lot of work and discussions are interesting
Not a lot of discussion in-class and the presentations can be a little bit long, but overall not difficult or time-consuming and really interesting material!
Spanish 61n is an excellent class to continue Spanish - the material is very interesting and accessible/relevant to people from a wide range of academic backgrounds (including science concentrators like myself). Take it if you are interested especially in Latin American politics or history. Profesora Gutirrez is excellent.
This class was amazing and professora Gutierrez is wonderful. The readings were really great and not too much at all. There wasn't too much work.
Great course to learn about current events and historical events in Latin American countries. It was a really interesting course with good reads.
This course is fun, informative, and still allows you to practice Spanish grammar as it doesn't expect you to be perfect.
Will improve Spanish abilities and is an interesting perspective of Latin America, albeit one that is incredibly biased against multinationals
This was a great course and I learned a lot.
While this Spanish class is easy, it is often underwhelming and boring.  The subject matter is dry and sections turned into 1.5 hour lectures.
The class had very interesting presentation topics, readings, and discussions. Prof. Gutierrez was a wonderful facilitator; she had great insights to share but was also great at pulling out experiences from the group and relating things to our everyday lives and futures.
I think that this course is interesting.  However, it definitely assumes a high level of comfort with Spanish so I would keep that in mind before taking.
