Take this class if you have ever traveled to Spain, or would want to in the future.  Eloi is the best, and he really wants you to get as much as you can out of discussions.  Barcelona is one of the most amazing cities in the world, and this course grounds the myths and touristy aspects in their historical context.  The class is flexible to all levels of Spanish speakers, but it can definitely be difficult to contribute if you don't feel comfortable speaking in the language.  Take this class!
I loved this class. Eloi is a great teacher - personable and thoughtful. He really engages his students and checks in with each individual to make sure he or she is getting as much out of the class as possible. The course combines the academic study of art, architecture, history, language, urban design, and more -- great for any lover of the humanities.
Fantastic course about Barcelona and Catalan culture! Hard to find Spanish courses that focus on Spain specifically, and on city as beautiful as Barcelona. You definitely have to do the readings because the entire course was based on 1.5-hour long discussions twice a week on them. Response papers weren't too demanding, and neither were the midterm, final, and final paper. Eloi is great discussion leader and it was a very fun course!
Fun, edifying class with a knowledgeable and committed instructor. Not too academically demanding, as long as you keep on top of the (very reasonable) readings.
Eloi is fabulous and the material is super interesting--definitely worth taking.
This is a very fun and useful class that explores the history of Barcelona into the contemporary moment. Eloi is a wonderful professor, who gets students excited about the subject material.  Assignments are usually able to fit with your interests since the course is very broad- covering art, architecture, literature, and beyond. A great, great class! Highly recommend.
It was really awesome, but the readings were not all in Spanish, so it was less of a challenge in that way.
This class is an excellent overview of the history, culture, language and society of Barcelona and the surrounding area.  All types of themes are treated throughout the course, meaning that no one will leave this class without having studied something in depth that is very interesting to them.
Overall an excellent class! Maria does a great job of selecting a broad range of topics about the city and its history and is clearly very enthusiastic about the material.
