This is wonderful opportunity to begin to approach the Quijote.
Excellent class, excellent professor, excellent everything. TAKE IT.
Run as fast as you can
This class requires a lot of work but Professor Gaylord has a lot to contribute about Cervantes' masterpiece.
This class was nice, and I recommend it! Section with the professor was much better than section with Antonio, which tended to be more like a lecture of plot summary rather than analysis. Prof. Gaylord's lectures are enjoyable -- although they do diverge -- and nicely participatory. There is way too much reading to get through, but it's not entirely necessary for success in the class. Highlights were visiting Houghton Library to see DQ materials and meeting translator Edith Grossman. Overall I'm happy I took this class.
Try to meet with Mary Gaylord in her office hours as soon as possible. She is brilliant and has incredible insight that enriches the experience of the text. It is also much less nerve-wracking to talk about this very complex and long book one-on-one than in a large class. The class readings are great but I often found the class-time instruction to be too lecture-based.
If you are interested in reading Don Quixote, you should take this course. Don't be scared about the fact that it's in Spanish; the focus is more on the text than on the Spanish aspect of it.
You really should take and stay in this class.  Spend more time using Grossman's translation more than the original old Spanish of it is too difficult.
Seriously one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Mary Gaylord is a great and caring professor who is committed to her students. Antonio was also a wonderful TF who provided great feedback on the response papers.
Amazing opportunity to read a canonical text; the secondary readings were also paired very well with the primary text. Some organizational issues that hopefully will be straightened out the next time the course is offered, in order to be able to actually finish the book by the end of the semester.
If anything about the course description interests you and you like reading at all, take this course!
The amount of reading is challenging, but it is an excellent class to take if you want to read Don Quijote. Prof. Mary Gaylord is a kind, caring, and extremely intelligent person whose passion for the material is infectious.
reading Don Quijote takes a really long time, focus on keeping up with that more than reading the additional readings cause once you get behind on Don Quijote, it's almost impossible to catch up
The reading schedule is very ambitious, but sometimes class discussion is repetitive and slow.
The assigned reading is great and it is well paced so as not to be overwhelmingly difficult
This course is a unique opportunity to study one of the great works of European literature with a wonderful professor who not only knows the text backwards and forwards, but conveys her own deep feeling for the Quixote in every class. Not to be missed.
That the class is quite difficult and the amount of work made it hard to actually appreciate the text.
Keep up with the reading or else it gets overwhelming. At the same time, she does not discuss everything so sometimes its not necessary. Overall I liked the class, but at other times it was confusing what was expected of me.
You will learn so much about Don Quijote, but be prepared to be flexible about assignments and the changing structure of the course.
The course is great, the text is a hall-mark in world literature, but most of all, take this class with the M. Gaylord.
Taking this class was an incredible, albeit challenging, experience. Professor Gaylord is a great teacher who will truly shape your reading of Don Quijote, and the TF, Elizabeth was a great resource for us undergrads and took an especially strong interest in our personal success (NB: the majority of students in the class were grad students). There is a fair amount of weekly work between the readings and weekly written exercises, and it wasn't always clear what was expected of us on the written exercises, but the work/grading was definitely not unreasonable. Importantly, though, it's crucial to have a really strong knowledge of Spanish, and I would caution against taking the course if you're not at a near fluent level (I am not, which might have made the course a bit more challenging for me than others).
This class provides a wonderful foundation for reading Don Quijote and literature inspired by it.
It is a beautiful course, where you enjoy the reading and learn in depth about Cervantes' masterpiece.
I really really enjoyed this course. Although the workload was mostly manageable, some weeks were quite overwhelming with writing and reading. I also enjoyed writing the short essays nearly every week, which got me thinking more deeply about the novel. The grading scheme, though, sometimes seems a bit uncertain as to what is being counted and what is not.
This is my favorite Harvard class. Amazing professor. Wonderful discussion of a timeless piece of literature.
It is definitely an important class to take if you plan on studying any literature that follows Don Quijote, especially Latin American.
Lots and lots of reading! Lecture component was ok, section was good. This class is designed for someone interested in literature, not someone interested in the Spanish language.
This class is very good, particularly when taught by Prof. Gaylord and with Cesar who is an outstanding TF.
I really enjoyed this course.  I improved my analytical skills and was able to work with this leading professor in her field on this amazing book.  I was shocked by how much I ended up liking the course.
If you love Spanish, or great literature, take this class.
Be prepared to have a lot of reading to do.
Read don Quijote before taking the course. Otherwise, the reading can get to be a little overwhelming.
It was a great class and I learned a lot.
One of the best classes offered at Harvard! It is not easy, but every single moment spent on this class is more than worth it.
You better love literary analysis if you're going to take this course! If you're like me and would prefer to enjoy a book without beating it to death, STAY AWAY! I can't help thinking Cervantes would despair to see his work torn apart like this, but I guess that's what literature courses are all about.
A great chance to get to intimately familiarize yourself with one of the best literary works of all time.
