The class is an interesting class and is not difficult at all but its duration is too long for a twice a week class.
I would not recommend this course to non-literature students of non-native speakers.
Take it, work hard on the essays because your writing will be improved.
lack of structure but enjoyable and covers some interesting material.
The literature was wonderful; we read many famous and beautiful works in class. The lecture was, though verbose, necessary for understanding the background of the works and at times quite interesting.
This is a great course with awesome TFs and the readings were very enjoyable.  Definitely take this course if you love Spanish.
There is a lot of class participation expected.
It was pretty relaxed and the readings were good, but it was hard to get motivated
The interesting aspect of this class is that students are not just required to write grammatically correct Spanish essays but also present a very logical and coherent analysis of the literature IN SPANISH. This is a very new and difficult task for students but can be very rewarding if sufficient time and effort is put into the class.Overall, I would recommend this class to anybody who has solid Spanish writing and reading abilities.
no comment
I loved every aspect of this course and was sad when it came to an end. I improved my analytical skills and my writing through exploring contemporary literature in Spanish. The instructor and TFs are always readily available for the students and are very encouraging and helpful with the essay assignments, as well as with any personal issues we bring up to them.
This course provides a good, fairly relaxed introduction to and overview of the twentieth century of Latin American literature.
It is interesting and I learned a lot about literature, but the class does not involve much speaking.  There was too much reading and lectures dragged occasionally, making me wish for shorter lectures.
It is a lot of reading but if you are interested in reading a lot of different Spanish literature--stories, poems, essays--then you should really enjoy the class.
I would tell students that this course featured excellent readings but they would do better to access them through another course at Harvard. Lectures were very unorganized and unclear, there were too few opportunities to speak the language and gain confidence speaking Spanish, and it was difficult to get in contact with my TF, who did not always answer emails. I would suggest taking Spanish 60 in place of this course, or perhaps jumping to a 90-level class if the student could do well in an upper level course.
I would tell them to take the class if there are interested in the reading list, and if they can keep up with the readings.
Good readings and interesting class discussion at times, but nothing about the course really jumps out.
The class seemed to have potential, but was run in a very disorganized manner.  At times going to class seemed useless and I feel that I learned nothing tangible in this class.
The reading list is interesting and the class is well taught, but it is a significant transition from lower levels of Spanish. Be prepared to devote a lot more time to reading outside of class.
Professor Carcamo Huechante is personable, insightful, and an interesting lecturer. Readings are diverse and engaging. Section is a major highlight of the course: all the TFs are incredibly knowledgable and help with close-reading of the material.
Good readings, great guides on Latin American literary movements. Enthusiastic professor, great TFs.
The readings are very good, but it is a lot of information to cover in a semester, so the lectures can be overwhelming or boring if you are not interested in the material.
i would tell them that the course is very boring
The reading material was interesting, but the lecture format was annoying and awkward (didn't like the small group discussions in lecture).
Have confidence in your Spanish abilities.  Also, there is much time spent on literary analysis.
It is better to skim the reading and get a good overview of the concepts than to try to know every detail. There's usually just too much reading to have the time to do that.
It was the first Spanish class I had taken that actually examined the language of the texts we read, which was a really nice change.
It is a class that is one hour and a half so if you don't think you can take a class that is that long then I recommend you don't take it.
The readings were selected very well by Prof. Carcamo-Huechante; there is an excellent combination of short stories and poetry, and the professor teaches you a lot of interesting things about literary theory.
DO NOT TAKE IT if it is still taught by Carcamo-Huechante.  This class made me HATE Spanish, and I'm a Latin Americanist in History and Literature.  It was so disorganized and so boring I couldn't even stay awake in lecture.
You are exposed to many different Latin American authors in the contemporary period.
the lectures were strange because the professor would often pair off students during lecture to discuss the readings for about 5-10 minutes before discussing as a class, this would break up the lecture and often be awkward and the students wouldn't really know what to discuss with each other. make sure to do the readings before class and sections.
Intensive reading is necessary.
I really like the basis of this class, and think that it has great potential, but I felt frustrated by the way that discussions ran and by distribution of assignments.
Don't take it if you don't feel super comfortable with Spanish. Also, it's a lot of reading, and you can't get away with not doing most of it if you want to do well on the final because even though there aren't that many assignments, the important things to know about the readings are not beat over your head.
This class is great! You won't regret taking it and I'm sure you'll enjoy all of the readings
The workload isn't that bad, and you can usually make it through lectures without having read everything. The midterm essay was stressful (40% of your grade resting on one paper!?!?) but other than that there's not too many other assignments. Take this course only if you really have an interest in the writers on the syllabus and are interested in their works.
This class is less of a Spanish class, and more of a literature class, that just happens to be in Spanish. There are lots of native speakers in the class which, while great for discussion, also means that the level is raised. There was little structure to  this class, so it was difficult to stay motivated to put in the time and not only try and grasp what goes on in the texts, but also to analyze it at the same time. Once you do understand the reading (like I did whilst reviewing for the final), they are actually quite interesting and intriguing. Sergio is quite hilarious as well.
This course is a great way to immerse yourself in the beauty of Latin American literature. Though it is not exhaustive, this course exposes you to the works of some of the most influential authors in Latino American and Latino Literature. It also allows students to explore the ways in which literature can be used as a powerful social and political tool. The professor is very approachable and provides great feedback, and the classroom environment is very friendly and welcoming.
It is a good bit of reading in a foreign language, but it is worth it in the end, and the assignments are not overly demanding. It is most important to keep up with the reading to be able to contribute constructively to class discussions. You will get a basic historical background on the texts without it being too heavy on the history side (it is definitely a literature class).
This class was necessary for my concentration but it is very reading intensive which can be tedious if you're not very interested in modern literature. However, it is taught well and Professor Delgado does a good job of tailoring to the needs of his students if you talk to him during office hours. Be sure to pay attention in section and class - it will help on the paper and final!
this class is an ok course if you are looking for something that is not very demanding. however, if you want to improve your analytical and spanish speaking/writing abilities, this is not the course for you. while some of the readings towards the end of the semester become more interesting, the earlier readings are very dense and hard to understand. the teaching staff does not explain the texts in class, and are not super eager to help you in office hours. take it as a concentration requirement if you must, but not as a language elective
It's great, but be prepared to deal with having heritage speakers in your class for the first time in the Spanish course progression at Harvard. It was awkward because there was a large gap in between how much Spanish I knew and how much Spanish they knew, and I felt intimidated for 75% of the semester.
Delgado is an amazing professor. He makes the material extremely engaging and his lectures are very enjoyable. I would definitely recommend at least shopping this course!
There are excellent readings in this course and Sergio is a great professor, but his expectations are a bit unreasonably high for an introductory course.
Great class! Prof Delgado is a wonderful lecturer and this is a very interesting class.
Sergio is phenomenal! The readings for the class were amazing and he did an exceptional job in explaining them in lecture. Alberto is also such a great and sweet TF who provides good feedback on your response papers.
This is a great course for those looking for an introduction to Latin American Literature. However, the class moves very slowly and it seems like much more could have been covered. At the same time, the slow pace did not seem to make discussion more substantive with regards to each text, so the slowness can be a bit boring.
Alberto, the TF, is awesome and I learned a lot from section. Sergio is brilliant and the lectures are often interesting. However, be prepared for a class that never starts on time and is very disorganized.
This class's reading was very difficult and potentially isolating. If you do not have the time, energy, and desire to plow through seemingly incomprehensible texts, do not take this class. That being said, for those who completed at least the parts of the reading that were focused on in class, the final and midterm were very fair.
A great introduction to modern Latin American literature, and lecture/section was always incredibly insightful
Sergio and Alberto are both incredible! I was nervous taking this class having not taken Spanish since high school, but they were so supportive and encouraged me to take risks and push myself back into the language.  The syllabus is so awesome--I loved what we read and I want to read more!  The class is very manageable work-wise.  Definitely take it--a really fun and engaging Spanish class with the best teachers!
I think this class was the best of the 70 level options, but not the best class I've taken at Harvard by a long shot.  Sergio and Alberto are great and very knowledgable, but I felt like they approached the class in a casual way that works better with smaller discussion based classes and felt awkward in a lecture class.  I often wished that Sergio had prepared more traditional, straight forward academic lectures for us, since I know that he has a deep background and a lot to say, but it felt like a lot of the time he let the class discussion override any larger points he was trying to make.  The class was also organizationally challenged (readings posted late to the iSite, unclear syllabus) which was frustrating at times.  I feel like I was exposed to some really interesting texts that I wouldn't have encountered otherwise, but also felt like there was so much more I could have gotten out of them.
The reading list for this course is a major draw, but do notice that these aren't necessarily "classic" Latin American novels (no Gabriel Garca Marquez, Carlos Fuentes, Mario Vargas Llosa, etc.) but go in with an open mind and learn about these alternative views of Latin America. Sergio's lectures are usually very engaging, situating the work in cultural and global context and then focusing on a few themes. It leaves with you a few memorable takeaways, which makes the experience of the course more enriching because with this more distilled understanding of a text, you can draw connections among the works. It wasn't always the most organized, and I wasn't always entirely certain what expectations were and my standing grade-wise, but this wasn't terrible, and the assignments are reasonable. The mini ensayos are a bit annoying because the grading system with its emphasis on grammatical errors rather than original ideas or close reading makes it very difficult to get check pluses (and who really knows what a check versus check plus means anyways). But overall, an interesting reading list, good lectures to tie them together, and Alberto, the TF, made section a fun experience that deepened knowledge allowing us to bring in our own impressions.
Only take this class if you're either really comfortable speaking up in large seminar-style classrooms or willing to only really be engaged during section. The readings are interesting if sometimes a little dry, but its a survey course, so that is to be expected.
If you're excited about reading in Spanish, this is a great class.  The texts are interesting and varied.  However, there's not a lot of time for discussion and the class had too many students, so there was less time for talking and working on language than I would have liked.
This class moves quickly and covers a wide range of literature from a lot of places. As a high level Spanish class at Harvard, it also has a mix of native Spanish speakers and people who are still learning. All of this makes the class challenging and at times hard to keep up with, but the course staff is understanding and very willing to help if you reach out to them.
TAKE IT...AMAZING
Teaching staff and syllabus are really excellent
This is the best class I have taken this far at Harvard. Many of the texts are experimental or avant garde; all of them are life-changing. Sergio is an incredible professor who brings to each lecture a kind of delicate urgency with respect to the texts. You will greatly improve your Spanish skills and be asked to think in new ways about literature--however, this will be done at a pace that feels comfortable and affirming. Please take this course-- you will not regret it!
If you love reading and learning about literature, this is the class for you! The syllabus might look daunting, but Professor Delgado is amazing and understanding and will make your learning experience comfortable for you.
I would recommend this course to those who are already familiar with principles of literary analysis (and who are comfortable reading complex literature in Spanish).
The class is terrific but you need to be good enough at spanish to read literature and understand it.
The material is interesting, but the class is very lecture heavy, so if you're hoping to practice your speaking I would take a different class. Also, many of the texts have a lot of graphic violence and sexual violence which I didn't know until we started reading them, so be aware.
The readings in this class are super interesting, and the work is minimal -- the readings don't feel stressful at all but it is important to have a good command of Spanish so you don't fall behind on that.
This class is great! It's a lot of reading but you really only have to put in as much work as you want, although it's worth it to put in effort. There is definitely a wide range of Spanish abilities in the class, but that wasn't really a problem. The readings are interesting and unique; they aren't what you would find in a usual mainstream literature class, which I thought was great, but is something to keep in mind.
Be prepared for a wonderful course featuring a wide range of stories, perspectives, and backgrounds. It's truly a great literature course.
Though it may sound/appear intense on the first couple of days, this course is actually incredibly chill! You do not have to understand all of the readings to do well in the course, though you should certainly be familiar with some to use to write your response papers and final essay. This course has a heavy focus on less well-known literature, as well as on literature about women, gender, and sexuality studies, so if you are expecting a generic introduction to canonical Latin American literature you will not find it here! With that said, the class had a very relaxed atmosphere to it and the Professor, Sergio, taught me a lot about how to interpret literature. Section was a great opportunity to practice speaking more and I think I really improved because I was speaking with actual native speakers, which is not the case in lower level Spanish courses. Don't be intimidated by the native speakers-- no-native speakers can, and do, do well in this course! Also, I recommend reading as many of the texts as possible on the Kindle (or using the Kindle app if you have an iPad) because it defines words for you at the click of a button and you can easily take notes!
Take this class! It's incredible. The material is all very fascinating, the workload and time commitment are very manageable, and Natalie and Sergio are amazing. They do a wonderful job of facilitating meaningful discussion, and they are just incredibly interesting and big-hearted people. Make sure you get to know them! As an engineering concentrator this class was way out of my normal realm but I think it is my favorite class so far -  it has something to offer for everyone and I would highly recommend!
If you are a student who is interested in Latin America, Spanish, or literature in general, this class is a must. Spanish 71b allows students to explore one of the most diverse and literature-rich regions of the world through the means of the region's literature. It's a combination of history, literature, and language studies that interacts with Women, Gender, and Sexuality, African-American, and sociology studies. Now I can confidently say that I have a diverse foundation in Latin American literature, and because of this class feel more confident in being a historian of Latin America.
I would tell students that this is a wonderful class. The readings are interesting and the professor and teaching fellows are very helpful and understanding. It's great to read Latin American literature beyond Gabriel Garcia Marquez. Do the readings and always go see your TF if you are struggling with a response paper. Be in the moment when you read.
This course is a great intro to Latin American literature. If you take it, actually do the readings when they're due, you'll get so much more out of it than not reading and scrambling at the end.
lots of reading so make sure your spanish is truly at a high level!
Prof. Delgado is amazing and this class will open your world to great books.
This class was very little work with a lot of reward! The texts we read were incredible and crossed various countries and perspectives.
Don't expect to read a lot of famous authors herebut do expect to learn a lot.
Don't take this class unless you speak really, really strong Spanish. Or unless you have to fulfill your concentration requirements for foreign language literature. It seems to be the least brutal of the literature options.
Take it for Sergio and his fascinating lectures, and for the fact that you will never study these incredible books in any other class.
An amazing survey of Latin American literature (texts that aren't well known outside of Latin America, but embark on many different themes within latin america, sexuality etc.)  that you wouldn't get in any other class...Sergio is amazing! Definitely take this course if you're interested in Latin American literature and want a less canonical and well known survey (no Gabriel Garcia Marquez) but so so worth it!!!
This was a fun class and a good gateway to Spanish literature. However, coming from my high school AP Spanish class this course was a lot at first. We were sometimes assigned more than a hundred pages in Spanish in a week, and that was really difficult for me because it takes me much longer to read Spanish than English. So be prepared to commit several hours a week to reading. I was also surprised given the course number at how advanced some of the other people in the class were. Again, as someone who had only taken AP Spanish but had placed into this course level, I was really intimidated by native speakers and felt it difficult to participate during lecture. You'll notice that the syllabus does not touch on any of the traditional modern Latin American literature that you might have expected given the course title: no Borges, no Marquez. I think I would have rather taken a class on those authors first and then delved into these titles. The class was sometimes similar to what I would expect from a women & gender studies class.
This class is great if you are a native Spanish speaker who wants to read more difficult literature in Spanish. It's very difficult if you are not confident reading long pieces in Spanish.
