There is a lot of reading to be done for this class, but there is a whole week to complete each one so the course work isn't overwhelming. Be prepared for a lot of discussion as that is the main component of the course other than the readings. Overall it is a great course with a casual in-class environment that moves through various representations of violence in literature (and one movie) that I really enjoyed taking and would recommend to anyone.
Start the readings early as they often take time. Annotate because it helps to go back during class to those specific examples.
This course was one of the most engaging classes I've ever taken. Daniel is an engaging professor who does an incredible job of guiding class discussion with the right balance of lecture and conversation. He illuminates new and interesting points about the materials. I would say the most positive thing about this class was its focus on engaging with texts in order to learn. It does not have excessive reading or assignments and the expectations are manageable and high. If you are excited about truly engaging with the representation of violence in literature, this is an absolutely amazing class.
Really hard readings.
Most of the readings are not very fun/enjoyable to read, but the professor is very good at leading discussion so the two hours don't feel as long as they actually are. Relatively light workload; it's a chill class and you'll get to read a relatively eclectic mix of authors.
The class was really interesting and definitely prompted good discussions about the texts and broader issues.  The material was a little challenging, but not a lot of pages usually per week and it was engaging.  Daniel was awesome - made it my favorite Spanish class I've taken at Harvard!
Not that much reading, great professor. Take this class!
They way the class is structured (meeting once a week with such heavy material) means you really have to work at taking it all in...
Daniel is a great professor - his enthusiasm and knowledge is evident. The texts are great and the topic is very interesting.
