It's fairly laid-back, yet still very effective to practice and improve your Spanish speaking, listening, and writing.
I highly recommend this course for freshmen that fear being overwhelmed freshman fall.  I made the mistake of not continuing spanish during my freshman year and I regret it.
This class is a real pleasure! A consistent but manageable workload, good instruction, and you get to watch movies!
This is the best language class I've taken so far at Harvard.  It's a markable step up from previous ones because 1) there's much more discussion.  You don't have to wait to be called on and only speak 1 or 2 times per section.  2) you have more independence - it's up to you to study the grammar, but you don't have all these little assignments keeping you in tow.  3) The grammar component is a perfect balance between reviewing important topics and delving into more advanced/complex things.  4) The movies are very weird and provide a lot of material to discuss.
The material is interesting but the constant flow of busywork (endless compositions, online homework which are basically compositions, exams, projects, and presentations) definitely means this is not just a casual language class.
It's a fun way to take a Spanish course because of the integration of culture and language, yet it's still a lot of work.
Spanish 40 is an excellent and engaging course!
This course is awesome! You get to watch some really great spanish movies and talk about them in class! Of course some are better than others but for the most part they were incredibly entertaining and really helped improve my listening comprehension. There is a lot of busy work required from this class - watching the movies on your own time, studying for quizzes, writing papers, and some readings. However they were not that difficult on the whole and the class was fun. It's probably very subjective based on your TF - Anna is great!
If you enjoy movies, this course is very enjoyable. The number and nature of the assignments are very fair, and class discussions and activities are usually very interesting.
I would say that if someone were interested in Spanish history or in the Spanish language in general, this class would be worth taking.
A really fun class! Spanish movies are pretty crazy on the whole, but watching them for homework is a pretty nice way to structure the class.
If you watch the movies and review, you can do well in this class! The movies don't even feel like assignment because they are so interesting and fun.
TF Maria is a great teacher, but a unreasonably harsh grader.
Spanish 40 is a great way to get to watch movies every week this semester! It was great for listening comprehension skills, and I enjoyed being able to write compositions on films this semester. We also learned about Spanish history from the contexts of these movies and reviewed Spanish grammar topics from Spanish 30 with a few added grammar topics.
This class was really great! The films were interesting, and you get to really engage with them in class.
Review grammar and work on assignments early.
It's an interesting class that teaches language skills but also history and culture about Spain.
This class is very well-taught and well-organized. It's also a lot of fun and Dr. Liander is amazing!
Highly recommend.  This course won't change you worldview, but it will certainly balance your schedule with worthwhile, entertaining work.  Whenever I felt overwhelmed at all the reading I had for the week, I walked over to Lamont and watched the next movie.  After all, no matter how distracted you get, the movie is going to take two hours.  I found myself also using the movies as study breaks in between readings for other classes.  Johanna is the BEST: so kind, intelligent, and enthusiastic.  Pray you get in her section.  This course is also a wonderful choice for students in large lecture classes, as the department ensures that the sections are no larger than around 15; I felt like my class had a strong community.  My two reservations are that I wish there had been more structured exercises for our speaking (although your listening and writing skills will improve significantly!), and we learned much more about cinema overall and less about how these specific movies reflected Spain's changing socio-political landscape over time.
Make sure you know the context and importance of the movie as a whole to the spanish culture.
This is a great class! You get to learn Spanish through watching movies. There is not much homework, the tests are straightforward, and Anna is a wonderful teacher and person.
TAKE IT! The lens of film in understanding Spanish language and culture is perfect and I learned so much about Spannish but also about Spain's culture and history.
This is the best language class I've ever taken, and one of my most favorite classes at Harvard so far. Most of the movies are really good (they drop off toward the end of the semester), discussions are interesting, and there's a solid grammar review. Be prepared to participate a lot- if you don't feel comfortable with your speaking skills yet, try doing Spanish 30 first, or you might find the discussions a little stressful. Professor Liander is a delight, so try to be in her class!
The Spanish department as a whole is disorganized. The class is very dependent on the quality of your TF, so cross your fingers that you get a good one.
This is a really fun and fairly easy course to take if you want to improve your Spanish or work towards a citation. The time commitment for the class is very low--each week you will watch a Spanish movie and usually have some other assignment (i.e. writing a composition or studying for a exam). For the most part, the movies are super entertaining, and the final group project (filming your own short movie) is a lot of fun! Also, the class sizes are small, so you get to know your TF and classmates pretty well. If you have taken AP Spanish (or some equivalent), the course will not be too difficult.
Movies take a considerable amount of time to watch, but I definitely recommend watching all of them.
Everything is in Spanish so make sure you have a solid ability to listen and comprehend the language, and practice speaking outside the classroom for when you get the opportunity to speak inside the classroom.
good but really need a strong foundation to be successful, very particular about grammar
Great class! Anna is an awesome TF. The movies are a cool way to improve your Spanish and set the tone for in-class discussions. You learn some grammar and vocab in a formal setting but thats maybe 30 min/week so its not overwhelming. I recommend this! Not ever a TON of work, just weekly assignments you have to keep up on
The movies are mostly interesting.
This class was such a fun class-- not only do you get to watch spanish movies and improve your spanish talent that way, but you also get to learn a ton about Spanish history- whilst keeping/improving grammar. It was so fun and I would recommend it to literally every student.
Very fun and engaging.
This class if very rewarding and helps with fluency.
You watch the movies outside of class.
This is definitely a great course to take if you want to have a discussion based course. Grammar topics were covered and tested, although the review was not very much in depth. Anna was always available for office hours and so helpful when it came to review, extra practice etc.
This a great course! You will hone your grammar skills and really (finally!!) learn how to SPEAK the language.
Budget enough time for the movies. Also don't get english subtitles because it defeats the purpose of developing and training your ear.
Depending on your preceptor, the course can be difficult because of grading alone, or fairly easy. The material itself is interesting and not too difficult to learn, but my preceptor was a pretty tough grader.
Super interesting course, where you get to watch movies every week and learn about the culture in Spain.
This class requires that you use and understand Spanish, but it's definitely manageable. The movies are pretty good and the assignments aren't too long. It's a really good class and it makes learning Spanish more interesting.
Great exposure to spanish film and easygoing conversation.
Spanish 40 is a great class and Johanna is a great professor. The movies are interesting and the discussions are insightful. The work load isn't bad at all.
Great course based on watching movies. A ton of writing assignments that are difficult, but helpful in forming a point of view on the topics discussed in class.
It is so fun to watch movies instead of reading literature. The different form of media makes things a lot more interesting and much different from other language classes that I have ever taken
Awesome! Fun way to learn about culture in a non-reading intensive manner. Very friendly, helpful, and enthusiastic teacher.
Make sure you're prepared for the speaking required.
Spanish 40 certainly improved my Spanish and made you learn Spanish in ways that were fun and interesting.
It totally depends on your TF. I had an amazing one; you might not.
A pleasant continuation of one's Spanish journey at Harvard. If your section leader is a lenient grader, all the better. And the material is fairly interesting. I would opt for the Voces Inocentes (film) section, as there is no finer academic pleasure than kicking back in the Language Lab and watching movies--for credit! Harvard can be hard; it's nice to have a break sometimes.
I would recommend this class, though I really think the grading of grammar is petty, and hurt, rather than helped my development of language skills.  I would have liked a class that emphasized speaking and how to incorporate all the different grammatical structures into the coursework.
A great overview of Spanish cinema with great movies!
Easy, fun, and I learned a lot.
It was a really easy course that provides good practice with speaking and writing to keep up with your skills. In addition, it fine tunes the grammar and helps you speak more naturally.
Sections are a little too large, especially for a language class, but this class is a good opportunity to practice speaking skills and become a better writer in Spanish. Class participation is definitely expected and mandatory.
I had a great time in this class and enjoyed the homework--watching movies!!
Es un buen curso, pero no ofrece tan practica como uno querria para mejore su espanol.
You learn A LOT and have fun doing it!
A great environment to learn spanish in. I would recommend it to people who are not sure about continuing past the beginning levels of spanish.
I did not feel that my experience in Spanish 40 pushed me past where I left off in Spanish 30.
It's a good class and Martha is great but too many sources from Wikipedia and the class size is ridiculously large.
Ana is amazing!
An excellent Spanish class!
Take a class that doesn't force you to watch incomprehensible movies.  Also, the LRC closes at midnight, which is really inconvenient.
Overall, the course is thorough and helpful. I still want to pursue my secondary and I felt that this was a good step in that direction.
If you have a good section leader, you will enjoy this class. The readings and assignments were not difficult but could become tedious.  Having an animated section leader meant that we were always entertained and enjoying ourselves instead of trying to struggle through the material.
I would encourage students to be active participants in this class.  One of the best ways to improve your language skills is to speak in class (even if your grammar is incorrect) as I found it helpful to learn from my mistakes this way.
It is good look at Spanish culture and it will help significantly with one's understanding of the language.
This is a great class which is indicative to how good Professor Ingrao is.
Martha was a great TF. She made the class fun and interesting. Not sure if it would have been so without her.
Would definitely recommend to other students, especially the film version of Spanish 40. I was hesitant at first to take it, as it seemed like more work (both in terms of watching all the movies and writing more papers), but I enjoyed every class and it honestly was one of the most enjoyable classes I've taken thus far at Harvard.
Fun, low-key way to practice Spanish and watch movies.
It is very helpful to talk with your TF in office hours about your essays, your tests, anything.  Office hours and oral exams were probably where I practiced my Spanish for the longest amounts of time.  Take notes on the movies when you watch them, it makes the Fichas a lot easier to do.  For the exams, it was very helpful to write out my essay ahead of time to have an idea of what to write.
Its super fun and Ninia Ingrao is AMAZING! She is SO sweet!!
Great background in Spanish film.  Fun to talk about movies instead of just grammar or boring magical realism.
not that hard, and teachers are great
This is a fun class.  You learn a lot!
Only take this course if you're actually interested in learning to speak the language better.
The movies are great- a real treat to watch in some cases. Discussion in class about them are enjoyable. But a lot of the work is just tedious busy work.
Hooray! Spanish!
Great class! I recommend with enthusiasm, and the movies you watch are great! Muy espeluznante!
If you play a sport, it's probably better not to take this class in season. It's not difficult and the workload isn't terrible, but participation is HUGE and it's important that you have the ability to think in Spanish and speak well (which I found extremely difficult when I was exhausted all the time from traveling, etc.)
The movies are a lot of fun and they help your Spanish a lot.  Great class!
Spanish 40 is a great course in terms of improving your Spanish language abilities, and you also learn a ton about the history and culture of Spain. The films are enjoyable and if you've never taken a film course this is a good starting point. My one reservation was that I wish this course were a Spain and Latin American film course instead of just focused on films from Spain.
The class is a lot of reading, but enjoyable reading. It's a good way to learn about Latin American history and culture.
it's almost identical to spanish 30 just with more emphasis on speaking
This class is a perfect blend of culture, cinema, and a rare glimpse into Spanish culture.
too easy, no motivation to do work. you'll learn more in harder classes.
It's the essentially the exact same thing as Spanish 30.
I would defnintely recommend taking this course if any student wishes to continue their Spanish. This course is very fun and greatly improves their Spanish speaking and writing skills.
This course was a fun because the professor really cared about how much we learned.
The films are fantastic, and provide a wide variety of windows into Spanish culture and history. Veronica is engaging and entertaining.  Overall, the course was not overwhelming in terms of workload, and I enjoyed it very much.
It is a fun course and a good way to practice oral Spanish skills.
Great survey course to Spanish cinema that simultaneously offers a strong forum for improving spanish listening, speaking, and writing skills.
fun way to prepare for study abroad
Its a really fun class if you have a good TF.
The movies that we watch are very interesting and you learn something about the history and culture that you probably wouldn't learn otherwise.
Definitely take this class. it is not that much work, it's easy-going, and you learn a lot in the process
The movies are very interesting and a lot of fun, and the class is extremely well-taught.
It's an extremely interesting class in which you truly begin to understand Spanish culture and the teachers are very passionate.
Movies + Spanish = Awesome
Very modest workload and lots of fun.
It's good because you learn a lot and it's not super hard, but it's kindof boring.
This class is great.  Take it.
Fun, interesting readings and good movies, great for brushing up on both written and spoken Spanish.
If you work hard and enjoy yourself you will learn a lot.
Watch the movies when they're assigned.
This is one of the greatest courses offered here at Harvard. The material is extremely interesting and the course is very helpful in sharpening up language skills. As well, Prof. Ingrao is one of the best instructors at Harvard and makes the course extremely fun and informative.
Take it!  It's a fun way to get better at Spanish; it's not too strenuous so as to interfere with enjoyment of the course, but you still learn an incredible amount.
don't take this course if you are a proficent spanish speaker, but need grammar help- it won't work with your needs, and it will end up being a waste of time.
solid class
The films we watched were excellent and really helped my understanding of Spanish culture. Johanna Liander is very caring and respectful towards her students and obviously very passionate about the subject. She facilitates discussion well and holds a weekly Spanish table. She returns work promptly and with excellent corrections. She explains grammar more intuitively than my previous Spanish teachers. This is an excellent class!
Speak in class as much as you can. This will help your fluency.
Your TF will make or break this course
This class requires more time than any spanish class I have taken at Harvard so far, but I felt like I learned a lot, and most of the movies are very entertaining.
I took this class with Johanna and it was wonderful!!! Definitely more fun and engaging than 30, and the majority of the movies are enjoyable. Great course for improving Spanish!
This is an entertaining class. Although people will talk about a high workload, the class' workload was manageable. You will definitely improve conversationally, and you get to watch some pretty awesome movies along the way.
This course is a lot of fun. You learn about Spanish culture through the movies, and get to practice your Spanish speaking and writing skills at the same time.
If you put in the required work - which is not very much! - then you will be successful in the course.  Try to participate in section and proof-read your essays for grammatical errors at least twice.
This course is an incredible amount of work for what it is. Each week you have a 2 hour plus movie to watch and either a test or a paper due. It is not worth it. Spare yourself the misery and skip straight to 50.
I really liked this class! I felt that watching learning about cultural and historical shifts in Spain by watching Spanish films allowed me to learn a lot this semester. I took this class after Spanish 30, but felt I had enough preparation to take it right after AP Spanish Language in high school. The work load wasn't too bad, but you have to make time to watch the movies every week.
Its a pretty cool class where you watch Spanish movies.
It is the bomb if you have Antonio.
The content of this course is incredible!  It was time consuming, but it is the best spanish course I have ever taken.
The movie component of this course can be a lot, and I admit I got behind on some weeks. With that said, this course is moderate and was very enjoyable for me. My spanish improved over the course of the semester.
Great class! Learning language through film is really effective.
Spanish 40 is the first language class that I've really enjoyed.  The movies are all incredibly entertaining and the class time passes quickly during discussions.  The assignments are not at all overwhelming.
It is a great class to take if you are considering a citation or minor in spanish
This is the best Spanish class I've taken (including C and 30). The movies are interesting, so being prepared for class is easy. The assignments are never too lengthy or difficult, and discussion in class is mostly about the movies, with only a little grammar here and there.
First of all, Antonio is the best TF ever! Definitely, try to get him, even if it is the earliest section. The class is definitely manageable and is a good way to balance out your schedule. Just realize that you will need to make time during the beginning of every week to watch a 1.5-2 hour movie in Spanish. A lot of these movies are actually interesting to watch, so it's not so bad (some are kind of out there though). Also, be ready to analyze and talk about these movies in class, because that's what we do for the majority of the class period. I learned a lot in this class, simply through participation in discussions and watching the movies. My fluency has improved quite a bit. Grammar is a component, but is not a huge part. Grammar is assumed to be review (which it usually is) and is generally covered quickly. I definitely recommend this class!
This was my most enjoyable Spanish course at Harvard. Johanna was a phenomenal teacher - she led great discussions, was helpful and flexible, and was very enthusiastic every day. The movies we watched were all great, and it was nice having a Spanish course in which we talk about movies, not text. The course doesn't focus too much on grammar but there is some grammar work and certainly a large conversational component. Workload is manageable, but gets a bit heavy at times. Certainly a good way to improve your Spanish and not terribly difficult.
This was my favorite class this semester and the movies you will watch are truly mind-opening.
The movies are great! Really try to watch without subtitles, you will be surprised how much you understand.
This class is not too stressful, although it has a lot of weekly writing assignments and quizzes, etc. But if you like watching movies its a fun class!
Take this class as a good "easy" language class. We just watched movies and discussed them. As a result of the class's casual atmosphere, I've learned a lot about Spanish culture, and am friends with a lot of my classmates.
It's a necessary step in Spanish education at Harvard. It's a pretty good course.
The films are certainly not easy to understand if you are not a native speaker, but the class in general is incredible.
Awesome class! Because the course material is mainly Spanish films, the focus is definitely on improving auditory comprehension, and I think I benefited from that greatly. The papers were not too challenging, and in-class discussions were always interesting.
This was noticeably more difficult than Spanish 30- I did a decent amount of "catch up" work on my own time outside of the syllabus.
This is a great Spanish course for intermediate students.
Take this course if you want to have fun while improving your Spanish writing, speech, and reading.
The class exposes you to a wide range of styles and topics in Spanish cinema. The movies are very enjoyable and make you think. It is necessary to be able to express opinions about complex topics on the spot. The grammar material is mostly review.
Eloi is a wonderful TF for this course!The movies take up a lot of time and so do not underestimate this class-- it requires a good deal of time. The movies are all interesting and I learned a lot about Spanish culture and history. The transcriptions (writing the movie dialogue from a minute clip) was challenging for me, but might be graded on effort, I'm not sure). My TF was a hard grader on the essays and escritos, so make sure to really try your best on them.
Expect about 3-4 hours of homework per week between watching movies and doing online work. 4 compositions like in the other Spanish classes are spread out. Same oral presentation, and a fun small-scale group project at the end. Solid array of movies mainly about Spain that are pretty painless. Overall good course, minimal work but you get a good understanding of the material by the end.
Language classes are one of the best classes Harvard has to offer. It's an environment in which you can immerse yourself in a small community of students and professor(s) and learn a lot. You meet new people and have a great relationship with your professor and it truly opens your mind to the thought of pursuing foreign languages during your time at Harvard.
great way to improve Spanish speaking skills. Go for it.
Nothing in particular
This class was a fun way of reviewing Spanish grammar, and improving on conversational and presentational speaking skills. As a student who is exceptionally knowledgable in Spanish, I found some sections of the course to mainly be review, but towards the end of the semester we ventured into areas that I had not previously learned. The class requires a lot of work outside of the classroom; aside from the large writing assignments, students also need to make time for watching the films required for the course. Using film, however, is what made this class so enjoyable; the course content was incredibly diverse and kept students' attention for the entire semester.
This course really isn't that much work. At times it can be a lot, but not anything overwhelming. Watching the movies is fun
Just be sure to actually watch the films.
The emphasis on movies in Spanish 40 really allows you to hone your listening skills, which is something the previous Spanish courses don't really allow you to do. Other than that, the format of the class is very much like the other language courses.
Take this class! Not too stressful of class and meets only 2 days a week that can get you one step closer to a citation.
If you like spanish this was a fun, fairly easy course with not a lot of outside work. The movies are a little annoying but other than that it is not so bad.
It's a reasonably challenging course, but I'd say Johanna does a great job teaching it, and it's certainly one I'd take again.
This is an amazing Spanish course taught by one of the best spanish teachers I have ever had. The course allows you to become well acquainted with Spanish Cinema and it is a wonderful world of films. Not too much writing required, but a lot of discussion.
I liked that there were a lot of small (both in terms of length and in terms of points/class credit) assignments in the class as opposed to a few really large assignments like in some classes. The menagerie of small assignments allowed me many opportunities to improve my Spanish. Also, I liked that the assignments were varied in how they sought to improve my Spanish. Some assignments improved my writing, while others were designed to improve my reading, and still others improved my listening comprehension, etc. I also liked class discussion because it was fun, interesting, and helped me improve my Spanish speaking skills. Lastly, the movies were an effective and fun way to learn about Spanish culture. Likewise, the class assigned such a variety of different types of movies that each student, regardless of personal tastes, will likely find at least a couple movies in the class that he or she really likes. It was also nice that the class did not (formally or informally) require a film studies background. One could enjoy the course and its films, as well as discuss said films in class, without a film studies background.
Take this course, especially if you have Antonio! It's a relaxed, small class environment and is extremely fun! It is a great class to have as a freshman because you get to know your peers pretty well. The workload is extremely manageable and some of the movies were very interesting/slightly disturbing. You won't notice it at first, but your comprehension will improve dramatically. The compositions were actually pretty fun to write. If you want to take a course that has a perfect combination of speaking skills and grammar this is the course for you! It touches upon the grammar that is most difficult in spanish, but at the same time your grade is determined by your participation. Don't be afraid to speak up! TAKE THIS COURSE!
Antonio is a wonderful TF. He makes the class enjoyable. Some of the movies aren't that great and it can be hard to take the time to watch them, but it definitely helps with listening skills. Antonio helps to improve speaking skills in class, which is really good. It's a very low key. I wouldn't recommend taking it at 8:30 unless you're really a morning person.
I mean it's cool because you watch movies. The movies in the spring are much better. It really just depends on your TF how helpful the class is.
It was so fun and interesting. Eloi was the best! This was my favorite class and I loved going (which is saying something because I didn't like Spanish C or 30 very much at all). The movies were entertaining and the course work wasn't that hard at all. My Spanish definitely improved too - listening, speaking, and writing! TAKE IT
Very good course for improving listening.
AMAZING CLASS! Make sure you get Antonio as your TF, he really cares about how much you learn , knows what he's doing, has a great sense of humor and generates a lot of enthusiasm. I can say that I mostly loved the class just because of his teaching style. It might seem horrifying that you have to watch 12 movies per semester but you get to analyze them deeply, and the class is really rewarding.
This class is great for improving your fluency in Spanish as well as your writing and comprehension skills. Javier was a great TF. He's nice but makes sure you learn stuff.
It was a really fun class. Just be prepared to dish out 2.5 hours every week to watch a movie.
The films are excellent. The diversity in the selection makes them all the more enjoyable to watch. Participation in class is very important--grades aside, it is a great place to practice speaking Spanish with fellow Spanish speakers. Professor Liander is great! She makes class fun and is very accessible.
Take this class if you're coming out of AP Spanish, and want to have a light review of grammar before delving into more difficult level Spanish courses. Also, Antonio's a great TF and makes the class super enjoyable!
This is the best spanish course that I have taken at Harvard. Johanna is awesome, and watching the movies really helps you to start to be able to think in spanish. You also get a lot of practice writing and speaking.
This course was so much fun and it was so rewarding to watch a movie and actually understand what is happening and what the characters are saying. It made me able to understand Spanish so much more readily.
Keep up with the movies and course materials.
You better enjoy/have time to watch movies.
Your comprehension will improve drastically, and I think it is worth it, even if you have to make a fool out of yourself for the projects.
This is a great way to improve your Spanish speaking ability and learn more about Spanish culture, particularly in Spain.
It's a lot of fun because you watch a lot of films, and even though they are sometimes hard to follow it strengthens your language skills.
This class is a good transition from Span 30. It's expected that you can speak in class Nd create coherent sentences. Also, the course material is pretty interesting as well. The focus is on Spanish cinema which basically means you have to go to Lamont (or the SOCH) once or twice a week to watch a movie which can be annoying but overalls the movies are entertaining even though some are difficult to understand.
I like that the class was a comprehensive review of Spanish.
Definitely go to office hours to talk with your teacher!
This is a fun class! You watch a ton of movies (some boring, some funny, some absurd) but the discussions in class about them are very interesting.
Be prepared to watch some very weird movies...but the class is awesome! I love spanish movies.
Make sure you know your rules of Grammer.
This class is pretty fun and your Spanish will improve greatly. You will learn a lot about Spanish culture through the movies watched for the class.
I enjoyed it a lot. The small class and relaxed but intellectually stimulating environment was a good change of pace from my other classes.
You watch a lot of movies but it's hard to get an A.
This class is excellent! It is extremely interesting to learn about the culture of another country through the context of its films.
This is an interesting Spanish class, based on cinema. I thought the movies (although very strange at times) were overall worthwhile and interesting, as was the class discussion. Compositions were about once a week and two pages long, very manageable and fairly graded. I had a very good TF and section members, so I enjoyed the class very much. The tests and the grammar they covered were, in my opinion, quite easy. If you are starting spanish in college and got a 5 on the AP, it will be very manageable for you as well. Overall, a good class to take if you're interested in Spanish language and culture, or just like speaking Spanish.
huge emphasis on movies, its fine if you like to watch almost 2 per week, but it's not as much grammar and learning spanish in that manner but more so talking about movie themes
Spanish 40 could definitely be a positive experience, but this completely depends on your Teaching Fellow.
this is not a difficult course, but you may bot learn as much as you hope to
Be prepared to do a lot of movie-watching. However, the movies are mostly entertaining and the instructor is very forgiving. The opportunity to discuss in Spanish during class without feeling pressure about making mistakes is unmatched in the real world, the teacher provides great feedback, and the class is not boring.
Make sure to look at the syllabus ahead of time to plan out when to watch the movies. They are the main focus of the class so making sure you set 2-3 hours a week to watch as well as time to review grammar and write the compositions is essential.
This class is a lot of fun, very interesting, and exposes students to the richness of Spanish film over the past several decades. Class discussions on films are insightful, and even the grammar is done in a manner that is as interesting as grammar can be.
Take advantage of class discussions! The material is fascinating and speaking with the teacher and fellow classmates in and out of class is really helpful.
The class is very interesting, and the discussion-based format of the class is great. But I did not enjoy many of the films, which were weird and often very sexual.
It is a great class and it is fun to watch so many Spanish movies. Sergi is so nice too.
make sure you have a good TF and like them - don't be afraid to try to switch out if something is not working...
This is a very grammar heavy language course. Although it is advertised as a Spanish film class, you will spend about 10 minutes discussing the films and 50 minutes on grammar during the hour long class. That being said, it is not very difficult and can be fun if you enjoy Spanish.
I unfortunately don't feel like I learned anything in this class.
This class is fun as long as you make sure to really focus while watching the movies, especially when there are no subtitles.  The out of class assignments and papers are not too difficult and are graded more on content than on Spanish grammar.  Be prepared to discuss the movies in-depth in Spanish, because the majority of section is discussion.  Do not take this class if you are not willing to speak up and articulate your ideas about themes, characters, and conflicts in the films.
Could be a great course.  I had Luigi who was not great - try and switch if you get him.  Otherwise really worth taking and I have had other great experiences in the Spanish department.
Maria is an amazing TF! Your listening skills will greatly improve after watching all the movies in class :).
This is a solid class, although I did not enjoy it as much as Spanish 30. I realize that, as it comes next in the sequence, there is really not much of a choice in whether or not to take it, so I wont say much. The class is entirely centered around discussing movies and their significance in the context of prewar/postwar Spain. Although some movies are more difficult than others, I didnt have too much difficulty understanding them; however, if you dont enjoy talking about symbolism in movies you may feel that participating in discussions and writing papers is not very rewarding.  You wont learn much grammar; its mostly a review of the big concepts from 30, and there is decidedly less busywork (although watching 1, sometimes 2, movies per week is a time commitment).  Grading seems kind of arbitrary, although thats true in all language classes. Johanna was a very good professor.
I had taken three years of high school Spanish (including AP) prior to taking this class, and while the grammatical concepts were generally not new to me, I did find myself challenged by the oral component of the class, especially comprehension of the films.  (As for the films, several of them are great.  Several are terrible.  Helpful?)
LOTS of movie watching -- if you like that, take spanish 40
This course was my favorite Spanish class thus far. Try to get Veronica as a TF. She's amazing.
Great class, very similar to Spanish 30 but with movies.
It is what you make of it.  If you choose to make little of it, it won't drag down your GPA too much.
The class is a ton of fun! I love that we were able to learn the finer details of Spanish grammar through watching and analyzing films from throughout Spanish cinematic history.
The movies were a lot of fun to watch and discuss.
This is a fun and rewarding class where you can really start using the language to talk about what you want to talk about 9within the parameters of the movies).
This class is NOT as easy as you think.  There are several assignments per week, 3 quizzes that are basically midterms, an essay about every week and a response paper every other week.  That said, this class will really improve your speaking skills (class participation is 25% of your grade), and you will learn a surprisingly large amount about Spanish culture through the great movies that are in the curriculum.  I took this course to brush up on my Spanish skills overall and now I feel like I've improved beyond my previous peak.  Don't think this will all come easy though.  You get out what you put in.
You can learn a lot and the teachers are very exciting and enthusiastic
This class required a fair amount of work each week.
The first Spanish class (out of 5) I was deeply dissatisfied with. Basically, the quality of your overall experience depends on whom you have as your instructor.
This is a great class- the movies are very interesting and discussion about them helps you learn a lot about Spanish culture and history.
If this is the level of Spanish you qualify for, take the class. It's fascinating, and there's enough grammar focus to keep you from falling behind.
Harder than Spanish 30 but still an interesting class
The class has a lot of writing and movies to be watched, but they are very interesting and you will learn a lot about the history of Spanish literature and culture.
That the material is fun and interesting
Great Spanish class! You'll get to see lots of interesting Spanish movies, and it's great to watch them for class.
If you have a strong background in Spanish, this is an extremely enjoyable and reasonable course. You have to be willing to watch the movies on your own time, which can seem like a hassle at times, but it's really not bad. The assignments were never that difficult. We never had to write more than a few pages. The group projects were really fun too. The TFs, from what I have heard, are all great. Learning about Spanish film was very fun.
This is a average harvard language class. I liked that it was a film class, though some of the movies are not very good.
it's a great low-key class to balance your schedule because class is a lot of fun, but it can be time consuming because you have to watch a lot of movies. however, the movies can be enjoyable or at least fun to talk about
You are tested heavily on grammar.
Films take some time, but otherwise very manageable and enjoyable.
I would recommend this class only if you have interest in actually learning spanish or are committed to a citation.
This is a good class to increase your proficiency in Spanish. A large part of the class is watching films, which are good for being able to understand (there are generally no subtitles), however they are a time commitment, as you watch them outside of class.
This class was a non-stressful, fun way to continue learning Spanish. Some of the movies were pretty bad but others were really good, and overall, I really loved it. Try to get Ana as a TF; she is amazing.
Good class, but be ready to watch a lot of movies... about 13...
Spanish 40 is a fun class. You'll watch a dozen interesting movies that are considered classics of 20th century Spanish cinematography.
There isn't much speaking but the movies are interesting and Veronica is an AWESOME professor.
This section with Tania was super disorganized and graded really, really hard.  This class taught by her will mess up your GPA.
This class is not very much different from Spanish 30 in terms of what you will have gained from the class and from what I hear from my roommate (who has taken both 40 and 50), 50 is a much better and easier class.
Spanish 40 is a great class for anyone who wants to develop their speaking skills and who also loves watching movies.
Definitely more enjoyable than Spanish 30, and the difficulty level is about the same. If you're choosing between the two, take 40. Finding time to watch all the films can be somewhat difficult, especially if you get behind. Most importantly, for whatever reason, they decided to include our final exam, oral exam, final presentation (in which you have to write, completely memorize, rehearse, and perform a play), and a composition in ONE WEEK, i.e. reading period. This is a ridiculous and unnecessary amount of compression and makes it impossible to balance all your other exams and papers.
This course will give you the opportunity to use your skills in the Spanish language in a constructive environment.  You will see significant improvement.
It's a lot more work than Spanish 30, because it's a course based on movies.. and of course, watching 1-2 movies a week + writing papers/critiques on them actually take some time. But that being said, all the movies that we watched were enjoyable and thought-provoking. Loved the discussions in class that followed each movie. Great course to take to improve your speaking & listening skills in Spanish!
All your work is based on watching movies, which is a nice break from other classes.
This class is very enjoyable if you take the time to watch the movies and do assigned exercises. It is a bit of an inconvenience to watch the movies outside of class time but most of them are very good so the process is not painful. You'll spend all of class talking about them so don't forget!
Professor San Martin is a great teacher! Class was a lot of fun and we watched several really interesting movies. There is a lot of written work and a good review of grammar. This course will definitely consume some of your time. Its not a traditional language course - we used lots of different media sources to understand spanish culture.
You have to watch the movies outside of class, which is surprisingly more annoying than you'd think. It makes for a lot more homework than you anticipate and some of them are horrifically boring. I guess if you want to go on in Spanish you kind of have to take it, but over time it gets boring
Nicole is absolutely incredible. After 3 semesters of spanish, this is by far my favorite class. Also, the grammar is finally the really hard things that you haven't learned before. The movies are fun, and overall you will become good friends with the people in your class. Take it!
The Fall semester films are great.  The class in on Spain and it is nice to be able to watch movies that relate to spanish culture and history.
Be prepared to spend two hours in lamont every week to watch the movies.
This is an incredible class, but a lot of work. I believe that some degree of fluency is best for this level of class.
This class is great! I didn't realize what amazing Spanish movies there are out there. You will enjoy them all.
Great class with some insane movies! I enjoyed the class. The TF you get really matters because everything is taught in section.
Take the time to watch the movies for this class; they are enjoyable classics of Spanish cinema!
This class was great and all the Spanish professors/preceptors are wonderful people to study under. They all are understanding and helpful and encouraging.
The class is almost like a club or an activity. You watch movies, discuss them and write short papers on them. So it's not just boring grammar exercises. Yet your Spanish improves a lot. Definitely a better course than Aa or Ab.
The movies secretly take a lot of time, so make sure you schedule in time for them.
Great, solid Spanish class--pretty fun to take. You watch a film very one and a half weeks or so, and sections are mainly discussion based. If you are wavering between Spanish 30 and 40, I'd say just go with Spanish 40--as long as you put in some effort, do the work, and watch the films, you should be fine.
The movies get better by the end of the course!
great class, but a lot depends on your tf
It's a wonderful--and challenging--excuse to watch some great films and practice developing sophisticated Spanish speaking and writing skills.
Nicole was amazing as a TF-- and the course was incredibly comprehensive and well paced.
This is a great Spanish class- you get to watch movies and discuss them without a whole lot of hard or unenjoyable work.
I really enjoyed taking this class and looked forward to going to class every day.
The class becomes much better as it goes on.
the appeal of watching the movies outside of class definitely wears off.  but it was kind of cool to have seen all of them.
This class is very fun, and it is all about Spanish movies-a great way to learn Spanish.
Definitely manageable, and watching movies are a nice break from reading and problem sets. Try to get Mariana, who is fantastic!
The class is pretty fun and helps maintain your Spanish ability, but I don't really feel like I improved at all. Some of the movies are terrible, some are great, some are mediocre. It's almost no work outside of class apart from watching the movies. If you're pretty good at Spanish and want to challenge yourself, I might suggest looking at a higher-level course. If you want to make sure you don't forget your Spanish, it's a good class and can easily be taken as a fifth class. It's also nice to get a look at Spain, since my first year course focused more on Latin America.
SO MANY MOVIES AND WRITING RESPONSES; however, such a worthwhile class and a lot of fun.
This is a great class if you are interested in learning about the Spanish culture and would also like to brush up on your speaking and listening skills. I would not recommend this course if your goal is to improve your Spanish grammar, as the course does not teach grammar in depth.
Watch the movies, discuss them with your peers and talk in class!
This course is extremely interesting, but be prepared to spend your own time watching movies!
You've really gotta be proactive if you want any of the grammar concepts taught in class to stick. Also having to go to the LRC to watch movies sucks.
This is overall a well designed class, though be aware that not all sections are created equal. The films are generally interesting though be aware that they take up time outside of class in addition to the response papers.
you watch a lot of interesting movies though sometimes they are a little weird.  You need to have pretty good Spanish to be able to understand the movies, but the instructor does a good job analyzing and explaining them.  it's a lot of work.  but well worth it.
I think its a very creative class especially if you are bored with textbook learning of Spanish.  I think you need to be prepared to watch a lot of movies on your own time which can be frustrating, but the class itself is fun and manageable.
I would tell them that this is a great class in which you learn a lot and can really become comfortable in speaking Spanish without putting  a huge number of hours in outside class.
Great course, very interesting, relatively painless
I've learned a lot in this course. My teacher was great, and the movies taught me tons about Spanish culture and history. However, the class required a slightly greater time commitment than I was expecting. Overall, though, I thoroughly enjoyed the course.
This course is a very fun and interesting way to learn about Spanish history and culture through the study of films. Though it can sometimes be time consuming to watch each movie before class, it is definitely worth it!
Be prepared to study grammar on your own.
It may depend on the TF that you have, but this was the most interesting class I took this semester and actually looked forward to the in class discussions.
This course was fun and interesting. its not a lot of work and makes you learn to look carefully at movies.
It's a really well-run class and definitely helps your Spanish skills.  Don't underestimate the time commitment- watching the movies takes at least 2 hours of your week, and there's usually a short essays and other small grammar exercises.  But it's still a fun class and I enjoyed it very much.
It's a great course...It's not a huge time commitment, but definitely try to watch all of the movies. They make the class discussions much more valuable and make the class overall lots more interesting and enjoyable.
Get ready to spend a lot of time at the LRC! The movies are (mostly) great though!
This is a great class for shoring up your grammar, as well as watching enjoyable (mostly) movies. You will speak a lot in class, and definitely improve your listening after laboring through the grainy, 1950s movies
If you have the time to watch a movie every week, this is a great course to take.
Be aware that you will spend about 2 hours each week watching a movie, in addition to the homework assigned for each class period.  However, this is an excellent and enjoyable class if you want to improve your listening skills.
Solid Spanish course. Focuses on films, which are generally entertaining. The grammar isn't really taught in class (but forms the bulk of the tests/final), so you should come into the course with a good grasp of it.
Way more writing than lower Spanish courses (coursehead: Liander).  Movies aren't great, but they're watchable
Fun class and interesting movies (although some were painful to watch). Good review of grammar/vocab, too. Andreu is great!
The mvoies are perhaps not the best, but it is an excellent way to learn Spanish.
The course is consistently fun and the films are fantastic. The class, first and foremost, requires energy.
Very entertaining class, definitely worth it.
Take this class! But don't blow it off-it's more demanding than you think, but so much fun.
This course is a great review of advanced Spanish grammar. I think it really improved my writing skills.
Good class, don't let the high number of movies scare you away.
Its the next step.
It is a fair amount of work, pretty enjoyable.
Take it! Watching foreign movies is fun and good exposure.
This is a wonderful course that refines your speaking and writing abilities while giving an introduction to Spanish film.
Prepare to watch a lot of movies.
Fun way to learn spanish. plus you get to watch movies.
Much of this course relies on the Teaching Fellow that heads the individual section.  Some are fairer in grading than others, and some do not cover the amount of grammar review necessary to do as well as possible on the exams.
This is overall a pretty fun class; it really helped with comprehension and we learned a lot of tricky grammatical/lexical things that were very helpful.  I will definitely be keeping the textbook.
This class is what you make of it.  Watch the movies, take copious notes, and learn as much as you can from discussion! It's worthwhile when you make an effort.
Great way to improve Spanish listening/speaking skills.  Some of the movies are a little boring, but overall a great course!
This course requires a lot of time to be dedicated outside of the classroom to watching movies but is very interesting.
This class is great, but depends a lot on your TF and how hard they grade.
Class on Fridays is kind of a pain, but it's an entertaining class and you actually get to learn a lot about Spanish film.
This class is fun!
The class may start off slow, but it turned into something really fun and engaging for me.  Unless you are fluent, you will probably be challenged in this course, but in a very good way that will improve your Spanish.
It's a very fun class that allows you to watch movies and concretely improve your Spanish. You should be willing to spend a fair amount of time on written exercises, and the grammar can be demanding, especially memorization of certain grammatical prepositions that don't make sense. Overall, incredibly fun.
Overall, an effective class in learning a language. Spanish cinema can be a little bizarre, but it provides a nice lens to both the language and the culture. VERY Spain-centric (as opposed to Latin America).
Although watching movies takes time and writing 3 page essays isn't particularly fun, the classroom environment is awesome and definitely worth it. It's not a difficult class and is a great way to meet other kids and keep yourself sane when you're taking other huge lecture classes.
Though your writing/speaking skills may not progress as much as they did/would in a more grammar-intensive course (like Spanish 30), this class is really fun (especially with Veronica) and relatively painless. It's a great course to take during a difficult semester because it doesn't have any extremely time-consuming assignments and is quite enjoyable.
This class is great for improving your Spanish. I've never felt more fluent and more comfortable with the language than I did after completing this course. Making time for the films is difficult and understanding them is harder (don't panic if you don't completely understand them), but all in all, this class is worth the time and effort it requires.
This class is exactly what you put in to it (development wise).  But either way, you'll get an A.
This class is so worth taking, especially with Maria Fernandez, she is outstanding.
The movies take up a lot of time.
This class was one of the funnest classes I have ever had and most of the work is simply watching the films.
A decent amount of work, but definitely a fun and enjoyable class.
Great opportunity to improve speaking and listening comprehension.
good spanish class to take if you want a final review on grammar stuff before you move into just speaking and or literature
All you do is watch movies, it's awesome. Some writing.
Its actually a good concept and well prepared but it's like going to a doctor's office where you never actually see the doctor. My undergraduate peers didn't really take the learning process as seriously as I imagine they would working with the course creator herself. With all the amazing teachers at this institution, did you come to Harvard to study with TFs?
I really enjoyed this class. The work load definitely varies depending on the day, so that is one thing to be aware of. But overall I really enjoyed it, and I'm very happy with how my Spanish has improved. I feel very competent with my skills.
This class was ok. Just a kind of easy, silly beginning language class, nothing too intensive. Unfortunately, while centering a course on films is cool, it probably is not idea for language studying.
Not for students who need to review their Spanish grammar but a great way to improve on your verbal skills.
Be prepared to do the work. The films are enjoyable but you will be spending a lot of time in the Language Resource Center watching them.
I loved it!
This class is a fun way to review your Spanish, especially if you haven't taken it for a while. The material is interesting and class is interesting and engaging!
This class is a strange hybrid between grammar and literature that just doesn't work.
The course this last year had way too much material.  It was not your average Spanish class and definitely needs to be re-organized.  Two hour movies and assignments and readings and grammar is way too much.
You get what you put into a language.
The course head for Spanish 40 is phenomenal, and the classroom environment is ideal for someone that wants to improve their Spanish but is worried about the intimidation factor.
there are many movies that need to be watched for this class and that can take up lots of time.
Johanna is a great preceptor and Spanish 40 definitely helped improve my speaking skills. She's a fairly difficult grader but is really helpful, patient and fun. The movies are really diverse and entertaining and the readings are for the most part really interesting. I highly recommend taking this class with Johanna if you at all want to improve your Spanish skills.
Spanish 40 is a great opportunity to build your speaking and writing skills, and it also provides a greater knowledge of the histories and cultures of various Spanish-speaking countries.  It was a wonderful class with a well-constructed syllabus (including lots of interesting films) and the workload was definitely challenging but manageable and fun.
This is the most enjoyable Spanish class I have taken at Harvard, as I started in Spanish Aa. Definitely try to take it if you can! You learn a lot of everything - reading, listening, speaking, writing. The material is interesting (especially the movies!) and you improve your Spanish in the process!
The course material is informative and exciting, so you will learn a lot about Latin American culture. The course isn't hard, but it's a lot of work sometimes. There is a reading/movie for every class, and sometimes that is combined with grammar homework, an essay, or exam prep (this may change in the future). Make sure you have time to dedicate to the course, because if not, you won't get as much out of it. Taking Spanish will really help you out in the future, though, so you should take it, because it is a great course.
This course is a great class, but be warned that it is not easy and requires a lot of busy work to stay on top of things.
There's quite a bit of reading to do. The movie load is manageable, although it's heavier at the beginning of the semester. It's sort of just what it says it is: an advanced language review through film and literature. Logical continuation after Spanish 30.
It may seem daunting at the beginning (I almost moved down to Spanish 30) but you really do get into the flow of the Spanish quite quickly, and soon the sections become a breeze.
Spanish 40 is great! Definitely take it if you like Spanish.
This class is interesting, the course materials vary widely and in-class time is often devoted to making sure you understand the materials. However, if you don't feel comfortable with how well you can read and understand a story, look at some of the essays before taking it just to be sure.
Very interesting course material and increases cultural awareness tremendously.
good class, really improves your speaking and writing skills.
Spanish 40 is a great class to take if in the process of learning Spanish and acquiring good grammar skills. Ana is a wonderful teacher who is enthusiastic about teaching and the subject matter.
get a good TF that likes you. your performance in this class will be based on your prior spanish knowledge, not really on how well you do or how hard you work
Get ready to watch lots of movies.
If you're taking Spanish 40, I hope you get Dr. Liander!
It's a fun, pretty low-key way to improve your spanish.
There were great readings and the discussions were interesting. However, the movies were dark and depressing so watch them during the day if possible.
Take 40! It's wonderful for you understanding of culture and language.
Very fun and laid back, in class, but they grade toughly. Very worth it though, and an excellent review.
This is a fun class and Johanna is an amazing teacher. However, the movies are pretty explicit.
I would say that it's a pretty fun, low-stress class in terms of exams, but the assignment load can be a little tedious just because you have to watch so many movies outside of class time and read short stories in preparation for discussion along with little grammar exercises. But I thought it was worth it, especially if you're trying to get a grounding in grammar and pick up some more vocabulary on the way.
The work in this class is at times a little overwhelming, but the readings are interesting and worth doing. Don't get too overwhelmed at the beginning, it gets easier. The movies are good and this is a fun class to take if you're interested in spanish.
This class was really enjoyable, and really helped me improve my Spanish speaking skills.  If you want to take a great class that will give you a useful skill set, take this class!  You won't be disappointed.  Also, Nicole is an AWESOME TF.  If you get her as a TF, you're bound to have a great experience!
It is fun, but it is pretty tough. I took it to fulfill my language requirement, and while I took it to learn more, it was difficult and is not an easy A. So I think it is important to understand how much work it takes before hand so you are prepared for the class.
I don't think this course taught me any more Spanish than I knew previously, it was just a useful refresher.
Don't skip readings... you'll appreciate it when the tests roll around.  This class can be challenging to keep up with and frustrating, but in the end you'll realize that you actually learned a lot.
It's a fun class!
Be sure you get into a time slot with Johanna. She's interesting and delves into the stories. David is not good at all and will just teach grammar and nothing about literature.
a class that focuses on stories and movies.  johanna is awesome and incredibly understanding.  good class, i recommend it!
I loved the movies in this course, but since grammar comprises a huge part of this course yet is underemphasized, future students should have a  heads-up that they should actually practice the grammar topics in the syllabus to do well. However, a very enjoyable class and not difficult at all--very moderate.
There are a lot of readings and film watching!
It is challenging and wonderful. There are a lot of great Spanish films you'll watch, and you'll really progress in Spanish.
This is a great class that will prepare you for more advanced literature courses in the department.  Johanna is amazing and so enthusiastic.  However, you should note that the syllabus for the spring is different than it was in the fall (less focus on Spain, more focus on Latin America).
You'll take out as much as you and others put in. If you decide to fool around and not watch the movies carefully, not do the grammar homework or the readings, it will affect the whole class negatively (nobody will know what to talk about and how to talk about it).
If you want an easy, relaxing Spanish class, take Spanish 40. If you want to be really challenged, skip to the next level. This was a great class to offset my sophomore pre-med classes.
The value of this class depends on the student.  You can easily get by with a decent grade without learning or making an effort; however, if you put in the time and work outside of class this will greatly improve your understanding of the language.  It made me want to keep on taking Spanish at Harvard.
If you put into the work to this class you will do well, and the movies are really interesting.
Movies are pretty good, lots of writing but it focuses on analyzing the films so its not too bad.  Overall, it's an excellent class for lovers of both Spanish and film history, because in addition to having fun improving your Spanish skills you get a great historical overview of Spanish cinema.
A fun and engaging way to improve Spanish language skills while exposing yourself to Spanish culture and improving your understanding of Spanish history.
I'd tell future students that this is a very worthwhile class and is very rewarding.
The workload is far greater than in Spanish 30, but it's a relatively easy class overall.  The movies are boring in the beginning (except for Pan's Labyrinth of course) but get better towards the end.  Also, the quizzes are often reused from past years.
If you have decent Spanish it is a pretty easy class. The movies are interesting and a unique way to learn.
Take it! Manageable workload, great movies, and Ana Yaez is awesome.
Take this class if you're interested in watching and learning about a variety of Spanish films and want to build upon the Spanish speaking and writing skills that you've already developed.
It's fun.
There are a lot of assignments and watching the movies takes a lot of time.  However, the class overall is great.
Fun class but you spend a lot of time outside of the classroom watching movies.
Watch the movies - they're actually all good movies, and they're really the bulk of the course material.
Get ready to go to the Language Resource Center in Lamont all the time! But seriously, this is a great class. Watching the movies is infinitely preferable to reading.
It's amazing. I absolutely loved it.
It takes time outside of class to watch the movies, so make sure you plan in advance for that. Also, sometimes the assignments can feel like busywork, but it's still important to do them all.
Spanish 40 has a nice premise, but the movies selected focus far too much on the role of woman in Spain and the Civil War; last I checked, one can glean much more Spanish culture through cinema than those two topics. Furthermore, grammatical priorities are skewed and require much rote memorization.  If you can, jump to Sp50 or stick with Sp30, but know that Sp40 is an easy if somewhat annoying course if you still wish to watch movies.
really enjoyed the diversity of movies
Watching the movies was a good break from other classes' readings.
An incredible class! Definitely take it!
Take any class with Humberto and you will love it.
Great way to keep up your Spanish in a dynamic, fun, verbal class.
An fun, time-light class that really does improve your ability to understand spoken Spanish.
It is very fun, has a different focus from a traditional book-based language class, and is comfortable.
great class but a lot of movies to watch. takes up a lot of time
Make sure you have 1.5-3 hours per week to spend watching the movies for the class, on top of studying for the three grammar quizzes.  Other than that, it is a very enjoyable class.
It was a great course. The movie component is excellent.
You should take it! It's the first spanish class where I couldn't just get by without speaking and that was actually interesting.
It's great! You watch movies for homework and talk about them during class time. The only thing I would warn is that the homework is very unevenly distributed--we had tests one day and then essays due the next!
The course is great, and the movies are entertaining.
To be prepared to put in the time to watch the movies and that a lot of the studying is self-prompted.
Tough course but you learn a lot about Spanish film.
The most interesting and fun Spanish class I have ever taken. Most of the movies were great.
This class is great! The movies are fun to watch and you learn a ton of vocabulary from watching them!
Spanish 40 is a fun class that helps you improve your spanish skills.  The workload is not too difficult, but you have lots of small assignments every week.  I really enjoyed the movies and discussion of Spanish culture!
Just pay attention in class. It's a basic Spanish class.
Just make sure you stay up to date on the movies, participate in class, and do the little work that is required!
This class is so much fun!!!You get to watch movies (in Spanish, of course) and talk about them!TAKE IT!SKIP SPANISH 30 IT IS A WASTE OF TIME AND INCREDIBLY BORING!!!Would you rather read books and spend all of class on tedious grammar or watch movies and spend class discussing them?If you can skip Spanish 30 and just to 40, DO IT!
Take this class!!! Especially the 8:30 am class with Johanna Damgaard Liander. It's totally worth getting up early in the morning for. She's absolutely amazing! She held appointments for normal conversations in English just for the sole purpose of getting to know you. As for work, I mean, the homework every week is just to watch movies (some of which are awesome and some of which are so weird you just need to watch them to see for yourself) and write some brief compositions and just participate in class. It's a wonderful, low-stress way to become better in Spanish and in my opinion, I feel like my Spanish has improved a lot since coming to this class. Also, with such a small class (probably due to the fact that it was at 8:30 am) I got to know my classmates and I think that itself is pretty awesome. As for what you should already know before coming to this class, you should have a very good understanding of spoken Spanish since some of the movies don't have subtitles (and if they do, they're in Spanish - which is really great in my opinion). You should also be able to write effectively since you will be writing compositions nearly every week (they're not painful at all; I swear!). And the group project was super fun.What else can I say? Take this class!
Now I feel confident that I could communicate with a Spanish speaker if I had to (not with perfect or even very good grammar, but I could communicate relatively effectively). I didn't really feel this way after Spanish 30 so this is an improvement! It's better to just watch the movies all the way through and don't stop every time you come to a word you don't know. This is what I did at first but it takes FOREVER and is not really necessary. Just watch the movies and then you can read summaries online to kind of supplement. Also a lot of the movies are online (on youtube, hulu, Netflix, etc.), so check that before you trek to the LRC. There's not too much reading, which is a nice change!
Manageable work load; watch the movies because they are rewarding
Take it! Hooray!
If you like movies, you'll like this course. Get ready to spend many hours in the LRC: bring yourself a snack and a coffee and you'll be fine. Discussion is fun, the writing assignments are very helpful, and you even get to act in class!
Spanish 40 is a very fun course that will make you become a better listener and speaker of spanish. The TFs are fantastic as well.
great class! easy! and you get to watch some really interesting movies. a couple times where you have to put in more work, but overall very easy. I rarely did work for this class. Just participate and you'll get a good grade.
Spanish 40 is a great course that is not too difficult or time-consuming. The movies are interesting to watch for the most part, and the grammar is presented in an intriguing way based on examples from the productions. Unfortunately, my preceptor - Ms. Maria Jose Fernandez - is leaving, but I just wanted to say that she was the BEST Spanish teacher I could have asked for and she really cared about us her students.
It is an enjoyable way to improve your Spanish conversational skills without the intensified focus on grammar.
This class takes up a lot of time. You watch one movie a week and have about 2-3 assignments every week. If you have difficulty with time management, this might not be the best class for you.
Though it may look harmless, it's a time-sucker. Make sure you have time to watch a two hour movie each week and then write about it.
Class is well-designed and a lot of fun. Watching films each week can sometime be a hassle, but definitely worth it in the end. You learn tons of Spanish!
This is a great class and the movies are actually enjoyable. Just be sure you are very comfortable speaking in Spanish and want to continue to push your language skills.
The movies are a lot of fun, and my Spanish really improved!  This course also does not require too much work.
great class, sergi is very lax and a good fun teacher.  the movies are fun and generally pretty good.
The films you watch are diverse in character but all are well-received. Although it may be time consuming to watch a film every weekend, all films watched have substance upon which one can really gain insight into the zeitgeist of the time in which the film was released. The TF affects this class a lot so be sure to get into a section of a TF with whom you are comfortable.
In this class you will get a firm understanding of Spanish history by watching many Spanish films. These films are for the most part entertaining and if you watch them in Spanish with Spanish subtitles, can actually help improve your Spanish. It is often engaging discussing the movies. There is a good deal of writing as well.
Sergi is an awesome teacher. He is very nice and wants to help. The movies are mostly boring, but there aren't too many assignments.
It's a great follow-up to Spanish 30. Workload is manageable (and be able to factor in 2 or 3 hours every week for a movie!) Other than that, though, the exams aren't too difficult, and the essays can be written about many different topics.
It's not as much grunt work (grammar exercises) are the earlier language classes and most of the homework is literally just watching movies, which tend to be very good. If you're thinking of not taking anymore Spanish courses, I would definitely recommend you take this one before stopping, because you'll leave a much better conversationalist than if you stopped at Spanish 30.
If you enjoy film, this class will be especially pleasing. The scope of the class focuses on 20th century Spanish history through the lens of several films that focus on different periods of this time.
This is a fun class to take to improve your Spanish.
Actually watch the films - most of them are great.
Spanish 40 is an okay class if you haven't taken Spanish in a while or are trying to fulfill a requirement. It is not a lot of work, but the movies tend to be rather strange. Most people who take this class do not take it seriously, so if you put in a little effort, you will do really well in the class. You also review some more specific aspects of Spanish grammar, which will probably be helpful in future classes.
Great class, fun to watch movies and discuss them.
It's a great course. You get to watch a lot of movies and have some great discussion. However, Its only two days a week but sometimes feels like it is much more work.
Spanish 40 is a good way to learn about Spanish culture and history while improving listening comprehension and speaking.
This class is great! Movies are fun to watch, class is chill.
hope you like movies!
It is more work then most other Spanish language courses. Be prepared to watch the films and study for the exams!
This class is great! It is not too much work and it often provides a nice fourth class where you can enjoy it but not spend as much time as you might on your other classes, which might have more workloads. Often, I would watch the weekly assigned movie Friday night as a nice break from the week's activities. It is discussion-based, so if you like that learning style, you will love this class!
This course is a great one to take if you want to concentrate on your speech and oral communication.
Be prepared to watch the movies. It's a great class!
I loved Spanish 40! I really enjoyed the materials and even though I hadn't taken Spanish for a few years I caught up right away. Going to lamont to watch the movies was kind of annoying but other than that it was a great class. The exams were totally fair and manageable too.
You will really enjoy the film and history, and it really improved my speaking skills a lot
This class, like all Spanish classes at Harvard, really improves your speaking and handle of Spanish.  But it is definitely more work and harder than the preceding Spanish courses.
Spanish 40 is fun and not super time consuming.
This is a great class for those who want to continue learning spanish by looking at interesting material.
A decent number of readings/movies but a good class
There are very few classes that I would be excited to attend at 9am. Professor Liander's class was one of them.
What a student gets out of a language class is up to the student; it helps a lot if you put the time into looking up the words that you don't know, even if it turns into a long list. One way to think of it is that this language will eventually allow you to converse with native speakers who would not objectively find your language skills impressive (if they didn't consider the fact that you weren't a native speaker), so even if other non-natives find your language skills impressive, there's always a greater goal towards which one can push themselves. Those words come in handy since they allow you to modify the sophistication of your speech, allowing you to better fit in when in conversation with natives depending on the situation. This class is really great for further formation of one's reading, listening, and speaking skills as well as writing.
A superb class! Ana is an awesome section leader, and I've heard great things about other sections as well. Some background with Spanish texts and films, while perhaps not necessary, is very helpful. Overall, a really enjoyable class. You will learn a lot not only about the language, but also about the culture of places like Argentina (especially regarding la Guerra sucia), Mexico, Uruguay, and Spain.
Spanish 40 is a great way to continue to develop your skills. It is very focused on speaking and understanding native dialogue through films.
This class was a fun and enjoyable way to improve my speaking and grammar, and also explore themes of identity through movies and stories. The movies were great!
This course is really about culture, not grammar. I loved the movies and readings we did, and the assignments tied in quite well. Johanna is a fantastic professor, really enthusiastic, and the course allows you to develop your Spanish skills in both written and oral form. That being said, any language class is largely what you put into it, so to see a significant improvement in your conversational Spanish, just doing the assignments and participating minimally in class may not be enough
Good practice for intermediate/advanced students.
Spanish 40 is a wonderful class! While some courses focus on specific regions of the Spanish-speaking world, this course connects various countries through thematic links. The course introduced me to new writers and directors whose work I would like to study further.
Stress-free and fun! Great excuse to watch movies but annoying because a lot of them aren't available outside the LRC. Not too time-consuming, either.
Pretty time consuming, but not too difficult, and on the whole fun and engaging.
This course was a super nice compliment to Spanish 30 and the materials and cultural education was great.
Ana was a great professor who made sure we all "got it" by the end of class when it came to trickier grammar exercises.
Somewhat challenging but you learn a lot
You get out of the class what you put into it.  You can coast through the readings and the movies without getting much out of it, or you can put the effort in to learn the new vocabulary and language.  Your grade may not suffer heavily, but the benefit you personally receive from taking the class overall directly depends on your effort.
Get Humberto as a TF! He is amazing and very funny! I learned so much this semester. My speaking dramatically improved and I loved coming into Spanish every other day.
Spanish classes are always great.  This involves more outside commitment than 30 b/c there are a bunch of movies, but they are very interesting and generally the readings are shorter and easier to understand (in my opinion) than 30.
This class is demanding...Lots of assignments and reading throughout the entire course, and reading period is kind of intense with all the different assessments. But I felt like it helped to improve my listening skills a lot!  A good course--just be prepared to work.
Be prepared to be challenged and grow a lot for it.
This is a great course to take if you are looking to reinforce your Spanish skills! The class makes use of movies and texts in order to teach about various aspects of culture and ways of life in many countries. The class is fun and I looked forward to it each day! You will really advance your skills in Spanish!
This class is a huge jump, in a bad way, from Spanish 30.  Not nearly as chill, tons of readings and movies which take up a lot of time.  Papers are graded significantly more harshly, and it seemed that a lot of the people in the class were already fluent in Spanish, which only made the rest of us look dumb.  Also, I don't think I actually improved in Spanish at all.  Study abroad if you are at this level.
How much I love it.
This class is such a great way to simultaneously improve your Spanish reading, writing, and speaking skills while also learning more about different cultures and important points in the history of many Spanish-speaking countries.
This is a great class, especially if you have Johanna as your teacher!
This course is a good way to fulfill any language requirement you may have left.  It's pretty easy if you do all the work and really engage yourself, and learning Spanish in a small group setting is definitely a positive experience.  Be ready to watch a 2-hour long movie (sometimes pretty boring, and sometimes only available in Lamont) about every other week, but other than that, I would highly recommend the course.  The readings are challenging but interesting, and the course has a nice flow and a consistent but not overwhelming pace.
The course material is very good. Class discussions and exercises were fun, and I really got to know the people in my class well. Grading was very fair. If you stay on top of the work, you are basically guaranteed to get a good grade.
You will have to work, but it is a good course
The class is relaxed and fun, but watching movies can take a lot of time.
make sure to pay attention in class
Make sure to pay attention and learn the grammar. Yanez works very hard and wants to help you understand.
I think language courses are really dependent on the TF you get. I loved Ana. She's so amazing, easy to understand, makes jokes, is funny, understanding, accesible, etc!
If you like Spanish you will like this class.  Sometimes there is a lot of homework, but if you do your best to prepare well for each class it will be enjoyable.  I also think my Spanish improved leaps and bounds during this course.
Try to watch all the movies; they're interesting
Spanish 40 is a great class. I felt like my Spanish really improved in this course. I loved most of the movies and stories that we read and Nicole, my TF was fantastic. However, this course is more work than Spanish 30, so take that into consideration when planing your schedule.
There are a lot of assignments, but your Spanish will improve drastically! I took Spanish C before this and I didn't have any problems keeping up because of the frequency of these assignments. You should take this class!
There is a lot of busywork. It feels kind of like high school in that a lot of exercises are expected of you, but not much grammatical instruction or review goes on to help you learn. The movies and discussions are fairly enjoyable, but plan to spend some time on this one
This class requires a little more effort than Spanish 30, but the teaching assistants are great and make the course enjoyable.
Take this class if you're interested in learning further about Spanish literature.
This class is  mostly a class that teaches South American culture (focusing on Argentina) taught in Spanish, rather than a Spanish language course. Grammar is briefly reviewed, but you should already have a strong handle on grammar. It improved my writing, reading, and listening abilities, but my speaking did not benefit much from this class.
Get to meet your section leader. He/she will most likely be an interesting person to get to know.
This is a great class.  The movies are great, the teaching staff is great.  I felt like my Spanish listening and writing skills improved over the course of the semester.
This course is really fun, and not too hard, while still serving as a great way to practice speaking Spanish on a regular basis. A lot of the classes just involve having simple conversations in Spanish about your life or a story you read. The class is really laid back and discussion-style. Overall, it's an enjoyable and easy way to get practice with Spanish!
If you wanna feel somewhat fluent in spanish--be able to watch movies and discuss about social topics, this is your class! Be ready nonetheless for the amount of work (essays, movies to watch, texts to read) The workload is non-negligible.
Ana is the best Spanish teacher ever!
The movies are kind of long sometimes, but most are very good!
This course is awesome because you get to practice spanish comprehension through movies and class discussions.  The movies were very interesting and the assignments weren't too burdensome.  I know that all of the Spanish TFs are very enthusiastic and keep the momentum of the class going.  I would definitely recommend taking this class.
Class participation is the best way to get something out of this class.
grammar is rushed through. you don't get adequate time to progress as a speaker or writer. it's fun to see latin american and spanish culture within movies. the readings are a bit boring
I found this course to be tough. If you're looking to get an intensive grammar review then you won't really be fully satisfied. The movies were usually really great, but the readings weren't sometimes. I found myself becoming frustrated many times and even bored during some classes.
This course could be great, but it depends on your TF. You have to watch a movie outside of class almost every week, which is a little time consuming.
if you genuinely want to learn spanish and are willing to put significant effort into doing so, you will enjoy it more. however, the busy work and several assignments at once can get annoying.
Many of the films are Argentinian and it helps to watch them with Spanish subtitles.
The videos were great and my listening skills improved immensely.  The sections are taught in such a way that you are encourage to practice your speaking skills without fear of failure.  The syllabus is also laid out very well.  The TF you have is very important, some concentrate more on different things and some assign unnecessary work.
The movies are good and class discussion is interesting.  The work level is pretty minimal, although movies have to be seen outside of class.
This class is an easy and fun way to fill language citation requirements.
Do all the assigned work, ask questions when confused, and enjoy the class.
Roberto is a fantastic TF that really contributed to my learning in the course.  Sin duda
Unless this class is drastically improved, I would be (and have been) hesitant to recommend it.  I do not feel that I improved very much through this course, and was disappointed at the readings which did not quite live up to the amazing themes/topics discussed in this class.  I do recognize that this is the first semester this course is being offered, so I suggest giving it a little more structure and more meaningful readings.
Interesting
It's too easy, it does not bring you spanish level up but for the most part keeps it at the same level (if not taking it down). It's easy, which is nice, but if you really want to learn the language - this is not the place.
This class is awesome! Don't be scared of not understanding the movies - you can always look up their plots online. There is barely any work outside of watching the movies, as long as you can bang out a two-page essay in spanish without spending too much time on it.
This is a pleasant way to learn Spanish and work toward your citation.
If you want a nice, relaxing, fun class in Spanish, this is it.
The workload is just right, and the difficulty level is not too bad, but material-wise the course was a disappointment.
Take this class and you'll learn a lot and your Spanish will improve!
This is a great course to help improve your speaking and written ability of Spanish! I highly recommend it!
With this kind of a class, you really get out as much as you put into it.  But you really can do the minimum workload and be fine if you just want to use it to fulfill requirements for a language citation or just improve and practice your Spanish.
The movies are interesting and the class discussion is fun.
Johanna is fantastic, if you have even a little bit of interest in this topic you must take it just so you can have her a your professor!
Great films
How much you get out of the class depends a lot on who your TF is. I sat it on one of the other sections, and their TF went over grammar for maybe the first forty minutes of section, and everyone was bored out of their mind and not many people were paying attention.
It was a good course for practicing Spanish and keeping up my writing and speaking skills, but I did not feel like I progressed in my proficiency.
If you have a strong background in Spanish and are looking for a class with little reading and a lot of movie-watching to fulfill a requirement, this is a good class for you.  If you are trying to improve your Spanish, another class might be more helpful.
If possible, take a Spanish course that is taught by a faculty member. Those courses are much more likely to have a flexible curriculum that will be geared toward the needs of the students in the classroom. This course was not structured for students to truly learn or reinforce grammar concepts.  There was often too much work that had very little effect on your final grade and not enough time was devoted to making the language experience a relationship between teacher and students.  Even in a small classroom students were performing the grammar skills that they had acquired prior to entering the classroom rather than learning from each other.
This is a really great course if you want to improve your speaking abilities.
This class is so much fun. While doing a thorough review of grammar, the focus of the class, itself, is not grammar. If you are looking for a fun class with stimulating cultural discussions and a good review of grammar, this is the one.
Shop the other Spanish 40 class with Dr. Liander before taking this one to be sure that this is the appropriate level.  One might not find this course, as it currently is, very challenging or helpful in advancing language skills.
Despite the fact that this course isn't really difficult, it does require a lot of work. There is a lot of reading and lots of grammar exercises, and lots of writing. I would just like to warn future students that they should be prepared to do a lot of busywork.
It's fun.
A good class, not too much work but definitely challenges your Spanish skills, the professor is very nice and understanding (always willing to help with mistakes, etc).
Be prepared for a considerable amount of work/busy work and class preparation for this class.
Take this course if you want an easy A. You probably will not learn very much.  The movies are great.
That you should only take it if you have a good command of the language
It's fun and engaging and a nice place to keep up with Spanish if you're scared to lose your knowledge of how to speak.
This course is a nice mix between Latin American history and current events, literature and film, and composition and conversation.
you'll love Joanna! The movies are all great too.
This class an awesome way to learn more material about Latin America and really helped advance my oral skills.
Be ready to speak a lot.
I love the class, it's by far one of my favorites this semester. I guess one thing to watch out for would be that you need to make yourself available to watch the movies. Regardless, though it was definitely worth it. My favorite this semester!
Ana's very nice, though section was a bit awkward and dry. It really depends on your section. I thought my experience could have been better with more enthusiastic people in my class.
It's all about the TF. I hope you get Prisca. I also hope you enjoying watching a lot of old movies with strange humor.
A fun class that does a good job of revealing different aspects of Spanish cinema. Not as helpful if you want to have a thorough grammar review.
This course is a great way to expand your Spanish abilities through discussion and movies--which are almost all fun and interesting.
This class is really fun and not that much work, about one movie and one short writing assignment (or worksheet) per week. Also, don't worry if you can't completely understand the movies - you will dicuss all the themes and everything you need to know about them in depth in class. Also, definitely read summaries of the movie (Wikipedia is great, or Google) so that you can understand better what's going on if you can't completely understand the movie.
I've enjoyed all the Spanish classes I've taken at Harvard, but this was the best yet! What a better way to learn a language and learn about Spanish culture than watching great films! There's not very much reading (except sort of near the beginning), which is good if you're already taking lots of reading-heavy classes, but I did sort of feel like I was missing out on that reading practice and the vocabulary-building that usually comes with it.
It's a wonderful class! More work than some other Spanish classes, but rewarding and really interesting.Prof. Liander is great
TAKE THIS!
This was a really fun spanish class. It required a lot of time watching movies outside of class, but it was worth it.
This course is an excellent opportunity for you to learn more about Spanish film, which is fascinating, while brushing up on grammatical skills. I learned more in this class than in 2 years of advanced high school Spanish!
more work than other anticipated
This class is amazing. It's a hard class, but if you're willing to put in the work you'll love it.
The films viewed in this course provide interesting insights into Spanish culture and history.
This class is great if you want to hone your abilities in writing and speaking in Spanish.  The movies are often very strange and going to watch them in the LRC can become annoying as the term goes on.
The movie component of this course was amazing. You really get a chance to understand film-making in Spain and you view many different genres. Some of the movies are a lot more fun to watch than others, but most of them resonate with you and the themes that they convey with the style of the actors gives you a sense of the media in Spanish culture. The discussions of the movies also foster a deeper and more meaningful understanding of the movies.
I would tell people that it's a different- but fun- Spanish class. It's fun to watch the movies and then it's not too hard to talk about them in class, making the class interesting and easy to get by.
This class is really fun and a great way to improve your Spanish.  Although I don't know how much my speaking improved, my listening comprehension increased exponentially and my writing has certainly improved.  Also, the movies on the syllabus are amazing.
Spanish 40 is a wonderful class that explores spanish cinema through discussion and writing. Students are exposed to provocative films that increase comprehension both verbally and through written assignments.
Great practice  improves listening skills in ways that reading-centered courses probably cant. Many films can be dull, but others are very intriguing. The deluge of writing assignments is a drawback, but there are constant opportunities for improving writing skills overall. Standard, moderately difficult Spanish course.
Johanna is fantastic! And the movies, at least once you move past El Pisito, are strangely some of the most twisted -- yet intellectually enriching -- films I've ever seen. Be prepared to do a lot of writing, but a lot of this writing is creative writing, which is not something many Harvard foreign language classes allow students to do -- especially at an advanced level.
I would recommend this to anyone looking to get a Spanish citation.  The movies are all entertaining and though there's a significant amount of work, your grade won't be defined by any one assignment.  You have a lot of opportunities to achieve a good grade while talking about really interesting material; the class is definitely worth it.
It is interesting and not too difficult, however watching movies every week takes considerable time.
The movies for the class are really well chosen, however is you want to read literature in spanish this is not the class for you; instead, its a great way of analyzing spanish culture in an engaging way
I absolutely loved the focus on Spanish film and the connections it weaved between language study, historical study, and cultural study.
This class really opens your eyes to Spanish culture through the cinema! You get to be in an interesting class while you enhance your spanish!
It is a lot of fun, and a great opportunity to improve your spanish.
Movies are interesting, light reading
This class is a lot of fun and not too tough, if you've taken spanish 30 or an AP in high school.  The movies every week or two are entertaining and easy enough to understand.  An enjoyable semester.
Spanish classes, in general, have a pretty light workload. This class isn't amazing, though, and it's harder than the lower level classes. I took it to finish a citation and don't regret it, but I'm certainly glad I'm done.
It's really fun.  The movies can be crazy - but it's fun and a good, unique experience.
Veronica was an amazing TF.  She was so enthusiastic and made me love Spanish again.  The movies take time to watch, but they are all great (with maybe the exception of El Pisito), and the assignments are reasonable.
It is redundant, and there is too much material for the TA's to cover, making them rushed.
Great class for adjusting to college-level language courses with interesting course material and good review of Spanish grammar and historical relevance. Course satisfaction probably dependent on TF. VERONICA IS AMAZING.
The movies are interesting, you will enjoy watching them. Don't leave them until 9pm on a Sunday night!
This class is an amazing chance to look at how art can portray culture and history; how film has shaped Spain and how it can truly effect change.
great spanish class--the movie based learning/discussion makes the class fun and interesting.
Lots of work, but fun!
This class is a ton of fun.  The movies are great and the class environment is relaxed so that you can practice your Spanish skills without the fear of mistakes.
Participate a lot more in class; you will definitely get more out of it. It's a language class...this should be obvious.
It is very interesting and the movies are great!
Really fun way to learn spanish. Watching without subtitles is hard, but useful.
It's a really fun class, very laid back, really not a lot of work overall. Watching the movies is honestly fun, too.
Fun course especially if you like watching movies.
Make sure you always watch the assigned material! If you do not do so it is easy to fall behind in class and lose out on what is one of the most creative methods of language immersion: foreign cinema.
This class is a lot of fun.  Watching movies for homework takes a long time, but sometimes it's a nice break from studying or paper writing.
If you got a five on one spanish AP or took both and did well this class will definitely be too easy and the work will be boring.
Great class! The focus on film makes the class interesting and different from other Spanish classes I have taken in the past. I would definitely recommend taking it.
I would tell future students that this is a fun class that will improve their Spanish skills (especially listening and speaking skills) a lot by forcing them to engage with Spanish cinema.  It's a very enjoyable class with lively discussions, presentations, and scene reenactments, and I would encourage anyone who knows a lot about Spanish vocabulary and grammar (but is interested in engaging more with Spanish culture or cinema) to consider taking this course.
Take it if you want to watch many spanish movies that may be kind of pointless some of the time. Also, take it if you have the time to watch movies every weekend.
Spanish classes at Harvard are not as good when the class size is as big as it is currently. Class is interesting overall but some of the movies are painful to watch because they are so dull or confusing.
This class was a great way to fulfill a language citation requirement.
The movies watched make this not your average Spanish class. It is more interactive and discusses movies of actual interest.
I started with Veronica Rodriguez Ballesteros but the sections got changed and I ended up with Humberto Delgado. I think I would have like the class a LOT more if I had Veronica as my TF.
It is an engaging class wherein one has the ability to understand Spanish culture through film and discussion.
It's a spanish class about culture more than anything else, which is what students are excited to learn about moreso than the rules of grammar or vocabulary words.
If you're interested in the material, it's a good class. Don't be afraid to participate in the discussions. Also, don't underestimate the necessity of finding time each week to watch the movies.
Studying Spanish culture through films was very rewarding as well as entertaining. The movies you watch for the class are interesting. Overall, the class was very enjoyable.
The class is a lot of fun!
A ton of fun, not too much work, fairly easy, improved my Spanish a lot, a great class overall.
You get out of the class what you put in. It's easy to get by, but if you put a lot into it
It was a great, easy Spanish class. If you are a native speaker, I am not sure this would be the best class for you.
This is an exceptional course. The small size of the course makes each class very fulfilling, and the movies we watch are second to none. This, coupled with the grammar reinforcement, helped my Spanish language capabilities tremendously. Luis is a fantastic teaching fellow, and, if at all possible, take a course with him.
The movies are really interesting, but you'll need to keep up with the readings and the written assignments because they come up pretty quickly.
The movies for the class are very diverse and focus on a lot of different themes. It was a really enjoyable course.
The exams aren't difficult as long as you study.The compositions can be difficult because we don't learn many of the grammar points we are assessed on, but it's still not hard to get an A. Just do them early and ask about what you don't know. If you took spanish for several years in high school, most of the grammar that is taught you will already know, but if you need to improve your listening or speaking skills, this course is for you.
If you want to continue learning Spanish this is a pretty straightforward course to take in your quest to actually know the language.
This is an interesting Spanish class as it is focused on Spanish in film. The exams are fair, there is a lot of writing, but it is overall manageable.
At this point with language it's actually really fun and interesting to have genuine conversations about interesting parts of the culture and art of the country. Johanna is great and offers really interesting insights to guide general and engaging discussions each section. Only two classes a week so it's more manageable than some intro languages, and 90 minutes is just the right length, not too long.
This course is a great way to work on your listening and speaking skills. I also had a tough TF, but that was actually a great way for me to continue improving and not to take the course lightly. Experiences differ greatly by TF, so consider shopping those too.
This course will not teach you more than Spanish 30. Take it if you must for a language citation. If deciding between 30 and 40 for freshmen, take 40.
This class is amazing.  The material is mainly movies which can be annoying to watch at times but are truly interesting and help greatly with comprehension. Joanna is fantastic and all the assignments feel meaningful.
Great course to begin integrating your Spanish language learning with various Latin American cultural and political contexts! Great movies from a range of different countries. Would recommend challenging yourself more and taking a higher level course if you have taken Spanish for several years prior to Harvard, though.
This course is a great class to take if you want to improve your Spanish level, especially listening and speaking skills.
Spanish 40 is an exceptional class. The emphasis on cinema (including the final project, which asks you to film a "deleted" or "lost" scene from a movie we watched) makes for an extremely engaging and fun semester, one with a manageable workload and well-paced assignments. Plus, if you can swing Luis as a TF, do it! He's as genuine and intelligent a teacher as they come. Do be aware, though, that Spanish 40 can be quite disorganized; we had a snow day earlier this semester that threw off our schedule, which never got updated on Canvas or even in class. The overall organization did improve after spring break, and doesn't seem to hamstring the entire course experience. Tomen y disfruten!
It was a good Spanish class, we really got to learn more about issues facing Latin America through film.
I really enjoyed this class. We watched good movies and had fun discussing them. You will have to take the time to watch movies on your own but for me that was a really great because movie watching became a productive break from other work.
Really helps you get comfortable speaking and movies are a good way to start discussions and helps you get better at comprehension
This class is great if you already have a pretty solid foundation in Spanish and want to continue to improve.
If you want a Spanish citation, this is a great class to take - very interesting course material and it definitely improved my Spanish.
I was very unhappy with my TF, so that really colored my view of the class. Assignment deadlines and expectations were often unclear and the movies were either hit or miss- there were a few great ones and a lot of bad ones. I would have loved to drop the class, but I needed it for my language citation and I do love the language.
The setup of this course, which requires watching one movie about once a week, makes it very interesting. The workload is very manageable, and the compositions are interesting to write. The final project takes a significant amount of time but is enjoyable.
This is a great class to take if you are interested in South American culture and enjoy watching movies. The movies alone teach you a lot. Personally, I am not a fan of analyzing movies and liturature in English, so the class component of analysis really was not my favorite. But if you enjoy discussing films and literature, this is definitely the class for you. Expect to work on your grammar and sentence structure, to write a lot of compositions, and to talk on a regular basis in class. Also know that everyone is expected to participate in class and most of the time Profesora Liander will just randomly call on you!
If you have language proficiency or took AP Spanish Language or AP Spanish Literature, this course is not for you. The movies and cultural aspects are interesting, but the grammar exercises and the homework is pure busy work for students who actually have an advanced level of language.
Make sure to participate in class!
This class is great! It teaches you a lot about hispanic culture through film.
it is a lot of work (relatively a lot of work) and you're not going to be able to follow everything unless you are fluent. If you are not at least proficient, this course will be difficult and unsatisfying
This course is not too work intensive and the movies are great
This class has a great selection of enjoyable and diverse movies.  Sections are interactive and slowly get you more accustomed to speaking Spanish.
It only meets twice a week, which is nice and an hour and a half isn't bad. Participation and papers is the majority of your grade. My TF, Luis, was very kind and patient and made our course experience good.The movies in the end of the course are actually quite good and actually engaging. They are modern and such good ways to learn the language. The movies at the beginning are not that engaging and the papers use vocabulary that were very advanced and difficult to get through.
If you took Spanish 30 before this class, prepare for a fairly different experience. The general structure of compositions and exams are the same, but that is where the similarities end. There is almost no reading for this course, but many movies to watch. This sounds like fun and, at times, is, but it ends up being pretty time consuming. Generally, I felt like the grading was quite a bit harsher in this class and there's not much you get credit for just completing. There's not a whole lot you can do to prepare for this beforehand to make the transition, just make sure to take this class seriously.
This is a great chance to improve your spoken Spanish!
Definitely a fair course. It was a lot of fun, since all the assignments are basically watching movies. The writing assignments are sometimes a lot, especially on top of having to watch movies (learn how to watch them on 2x speed!), but you do improve a lot on writing. The difficulty of the class really depends on the spanish level of your peers, though, so be aware of that
Best Spanish class I have taken. Significant improvement in my writing, speaking, and listening abilities. Reasonable workload and enjoyable movies. Luis is an outstanding individual and teacher.
Keeps you working on your spanish, the movies are really fun and pretty good, and Javier is very accessible and easy going.
This class is great. There is not a lot of new learning in terms of grammar, it is mostly discussion about the movies with some grammar review applied in context of the discussions. Almost all of the movies except for maybe two were great, movies that I would actually watch for pleasure. Assignments are manageable and there are not very many--this is not a huge jump from Spanish 30, just put in the context of films.
This class is interesting and enjoyable. It is a wonderful way to work towards a citation in Spanish or fulfill a language requirement.
The movies used in Spanish 40 are great, and they really help you understand different Latin American countries and cultures.
You will love this course, especially if you get Profa. Liander. It is a unique and fun class in that it focuses primarily on movies to better understand hispanic history and culture. Do remember that you must watch a movie for 2 hours a week.
Great way to meet language requirement, also will improve your speaking skills a lot through discussion! Plus, most of your homework is watching (decent-to-good) movies. Do be decently grounded in your grammar or willing to invest time on the side.
A lot of busy work, but fair grading--not too hard overall (just be ready to put in the work).
I'm not sure how much my language skills actually improved, but I think that has less to do with the course and more to do with the fact that at this point I really need to live in a Spanish-speaking country to improve my fluency. That said, Javier is a really great instructor, but I actually thought this course was easier than Spanish C (which may or not be a good thing!). As with all Spanish classes, there are a ton of assignments, which gets especially annoying at the end of the semester. But it's pretty fun overall.
The class doesn't require a lot of work other than watching weekly movies and sometimes writing essays. Classes can be somewhat boring and redundant but overall painless.
This class was great. Some movies were very interesting and it was fun to talk about the various themes and topics. The work load is very light and the tests are not difficult. Highly recommend. Also, David is an excellent TF who teaches you words that you would actually need in real life.
This class is a really great opportunity to both enjoy a class but also feel that you get a lot out of it. I found the method of watching movies and discussing class to be fun, but I think that the discussion really improved my verbal abilities. I also feel that watching the movies really improves your ear for understanding the way that spanish is actually spoken by native speakers.
Me encant la clase de espaol! Me gusta la mayora de las pelculas y creo que la clase sera buena para los que han aprendiendo espaol durante tres o cuatro aos (depende de su experiencia). Me parece que haba ms nfasis en hablar en lugar de escribir. Sin embargo todava tendrn que escribir las composiciones. (If you understood all of that you're in good shape.)It's a great class. You watch about 10-12 movies over the course of the semester and along the way you build on your vocabulary as each different genre introduces new words. As opposed to Spanish 30, I think this class focuses much more on speaking, which was something I really enjoyed even though I did struggle at times.
Relaxed TF, great movies, manageable assignments. This class is great. Anyone taking higher level of Spanish should take 40.
Don't skip any movies.
Spanish 40 was an incredible experience. Eloi (our TF) was the best, and I am very happy I took the class at 8:30 AM! What a wonderful way to start the day! I learned a lot about Spanish and applied the language to a new field through film analysis. The course is challenging, but I would definitely recommend it!
Actually listen to the movies while you watch them. It will help you immensely.
The movies are so dumb and its painful to have to go to Lamont to watch. Paying attention is also soooo hard sometimes.
It's a great Spanish class and Liander was fantastic.  A lot of the movies were great, though some were very difficult.  Workload isn't too bad, though staying ahead of the movies is critical.
Luis Lopez is an instructor that makes all the difference. Having him as an instructor in both Spanish 30 as well as 40, I was able to fully feel that I was learning so much about not only different aspects of culture in the different Spanish-speaking countries, but improviing my speaking skills along the way.
This course will definitely improve your speaking and writing abilities, but you should be prepared for a much larger workload than previous spanish classes.
The movies are very engaging and interesting to watch. Watching films in Spanish also furthers your understanding and fluency of the language.
I loved this class! It was a fun and useful way to improve my speaking and comprehension.
This class is wonderful.  The learning environment is fostered by excellent teaching fellows, especially Luis, who want to be sure you engage in discussion each class.  The activities are fun and my writing greatly improved.
This is a good class if you would like to learn about the culture of Spanish-speaking countries as well as the language. Be prepared to watch a lot of movies that you can only access in the library.
great class
I felt Spanish 40 required a good bit more time than 30, but overall I really enjoyed the course and improved my Spanish knowledge.
This is a great course. The majority of the films and class discussions are very interesting. There is not as much of an emphasis on vocab or grammar, but a good emphasis on speaking and writing. Javier is a great TF.
The course is very interesting and the assignments are fun and help integrate culture and language practice
This course was great! Johanna is a wonderful teacher, and not only helps you improve your spanish, but is also interested in getting to know you out, which makes the course really enjoyable.  The movies can sometimes be a lot to watch (one per week), but they're usually pretty good and fun to watch.  Take Spanish 40!!
Watch the movies - even if they are boring - and you'll do fine in this class
Such a fun class! The movies are really good and making the deleted scenes at the end was really fun. Eloi was a really good TF--get him if you can!
This is such a fun and worthwhile class. I loved that the course didn't just feel like a language class-- but at times felt like a cool history class and literature class. Also, hope that you get Luis because he is literally the best TF I have had at Harvard thus far!
There's definitely a lot of work to be done on your own for Spanish 40 (i.e. watching 2 hour movies, short essays, transcriptions), but the exams and in-class portion themselves are fairly easy and enjoyable.
There isn't too much work outside of class, just watching movies and a paper here or there. I think the part where you learn the most is in the discussion just because you get better at understanding and speaking.
This class is extremely fun because you watch movies and discuss them in class, and the movies are highly entertaining.
Make sure you are very confidant in your Spanish because you will be with kids that have already studied abroad
This wasn't my absolute favorite spanish class - I think I liked Spanish 30 a bit better, but that's only because I enjoy reading spanish literature more so than watching spanish movies. With that said, I did greatly enjoy this class. As someone who predominately fills her schedule with hard science classes, I found this one to be a lot of fun, as well as very informative about spanish culture/history in the Franco and post-Franco era. I also feel sufficiently more knowledgeable and cultured after having watched such a diversity of movies. They're not all "great" in the general sense of the word, but there are many gems and they all have something to offer in the way of learning the language and culture.
Johanna was awesome!  She is really fun to talk with, and really has a passion for languages in general.  Between the movies/class discussion, your Spanish (both spoken/listening) most definitely can improve over the semester in this course!
Johanna is a great teacher, and the classroom environment was comfortable and fun. I always enjoyed class, and the films themselves are often fantastic. There is a good deal of week-to-week work, but it was quite reasonable.
Definitely take this class! Most homework assignments are watching movies, which are the subject of most class discussions. I always looked forward to this class, finding the material interesting and workload very manageable
David is an amazing TF! Make sure you actually watch the movies - it makes the discussion much more worthwhile and they are all really interesting.
I definitely thought that learning a language through cinema was definitely an interesting and novel way to approach language learning. Some of the movies were a bit hard to understand, but the Spanish subtitles were often a saving grace.
Spanish 40 is an amazing class - you definitely have to take it, especially if you get Dr. Liander as your section leader! The movies are all pretty interesting and it's fun to learn how to speak spanish by discussing them in class! The tests are pretty straightforward and the difficulty of this class is very fair.
This is a great class to practice Spanish and learn culture through film.
If you are interested in exploring a fascinating culture through movies, this is the right class.
This class is pretty good. A majority of the movies are interesting, however it is graded more harshly than any previous Spanish course you've taken at Harvard. Be prepared for you first B on a composition.
This class is more or less what it sells itself to be. If you like discussing movies and have an OK grasp of Spanish, you will be fine and enjoy the course. They don't do as well a job at teaching you grammar as 30 though (since they assume you know it) so make sure you are able to teach yourself. Also, the selection of movies can be triggering so make sure you are ready to watch movies about some heavy themes. As a survivor of sexual assault and someone that lost a parent growing up, I wish I had known ahead of time that recurrent themes included death of a parent, suicide, rape, and incest (I'd still have taken the course in retrospect though because it makes you think critically). Also I learned a lot about Spain which was great. Overall the course was a lot of fun, pretty chill, and I'd recommend it if you like Spanish and want to practice and improve. Take this class!
I liked this course a lot, but I already knew a lot about the history of Spain. That said, it is a perfect class to learn about spanish cinema and understand the culture of spain and other countries like Cuba. Also, if you're interested in taking Spanish 59, which is an amazing course, you've got to take this first!
You'll learn a lot of spanish and improve your general culture along the way!
Language classes are, in my opinion, some of the best run classes at Harvard. Using movies as a learning tool should happen way more often.
The films are mostly enjoyable, and the classwork is not too demanding. The class is speaking-intensive. The experience is determined entirely by your teacher.
Johanna is the best!!!!!!!!!! definitely take this course, you learn so much and it was something i looked forward to every week
This is an incredible class. The movies are so interesting and the class in itself is fun and enlightening.
It's a great class if you have the right teacher. The movies are really good so you should actually watch them and participate a lot in section.
This class is fun because all you do is watch movies and then talk about them. The workload is manageable.
Great way to get to know the language without feeling too much pressure on grades.
We watched some excellent movies (though many Spanish movies are rather bizarre) - while I am not particularly interested in film, the movies were interesting and sparked good conversation (especially the later ones).
It's an amazing class! Do be sure to spend the time to actually watch the movies though.
This class is a film course. I did not know this going into it. There is a film that has to be watched every single week.
Even though the class is film heavy, do not neglect your grammar. It's still a very important part of the class.
It is a very rewarding class, but you have to participate and put in the effort if you want to get a lot out of it. If you don't like talking or performing, this class is not a good fit. However, I really enjoyed it and I think it is a great way to polish your speaking abilities and learn a lot about Spanish cinema and history.
Johanna was fantastic and created a very open classroom where you felt free to talk without judgement on your ability to speak or ideas about the movies.
It was a great class to take! It's not too hard to set aside time every week to watch the movies - which for the most part are entertaining. If you practice the grammar exercises or are naturally good at remembering the rules, you should be good on tests.
Great course to practice your Spanish instead of just learning grammar. Easy, but super helpful. Definitely take it if you can speak conversational Spanish and want to get better.
This class requires you to watch a movie each week, but you really only need to understand the premise of the movie, so don't freak out if you don't catch each word. The only things that are graded (at least in Johanna's section) are essays and tests, not worksheets, which she never collects. Definitely take Johanna's section. She is hilarious, smart, and easy.
Fantastic class. Try to get Prof. Liander at all costs. Commit to discussions and you will get a lot out of the class.
As far as language classes go, this is a pretty fun one. How much you get out of it will be directly proportional to how good your Spanish is entering it though.
This is an EXCELLENT course! Coming from high school Spanish, I wasn't sure what to expect from a college Spanish course. This course improved my abilities while also making me feel much more comfortable conversing and writing in the language. Especially with the instruction of Johanna, I am planning on skipping a couple levels, simply because this course was so effective. The movies are also really fantastic! I enjoyed almost every single one of them. If you're deciding between 40 and 50, this course will definitely make you feel very comfortable. Also, the courses are similar so you could probably skip 50 if you plan on continuing with your studies. Discussion in this class doesn't feel difficult or like going to class! It just feels like you're talking about movies, even though you're improving your Spanish in the process
If you wish to improve your Spanish in a fun environment, take Spanish 40!
The movies can be awkward but a few of them are really good and entertaining. The discussions are also really interesting.
This course is great for learning Spanish and beginning to understand Hispanic art. The movies are great. I highly recommend this course!
Take Obed's sections. He's the man!
Obed is the best TF ever.
In general it's an easy and painless way to fulfill your language requirement, although some TF's are more strict about assigning work than others. (Try to get Obed - he's the man!) Watching all of the movies isn't critical, but you'll get so much more out of the course if you do.
Each week students have the opportunity to watch fantastic films that really offer a window to Latin American culture.
Try to get Obed if he's still a teacher.
The movies are good - the ones at the beginning are interesting in their historical context, and the later ones are interesting as explorations of culture and plot. Section was very discussion based, and involved group work with other students. Class incorporated broader themes of immigration, family, love, and morality, which was enjoyable!
If you get Johanna as your section head, you are in for a treat. Take this class, it's hard but it's fun at the same time.
It was a fun, worthwhile and valuable class. We learned somewhat more complex grammar than in Spanish 30, which was surprisingly rudimentary. Still, I think the difficulty level could be enhanced even further for a class that is essentially Adv. Span. II
Be ready for movies without subtitles that will be difficult to understand.  Don't worry, discussion in class covers all the main ideas.
This class will help you keep up and improve upon your Spanish in a way that's super painless. Just get assignments done on time and participate in class discussion and you will find that you've learned a lot without putting in a huge amount of time to do it.
This course still has a few kinks, mostly related to structure, but it was overall an enjoyable experience and a good course for improving Spanish speaking and listening comprehension.
This class was fun and the material was great.
This is a good Spanish class. Although there are quite a few assignments, most of them are useful. The films and readings are mostly good. Section is usually discussion about the week's film and the broader themes and implications. This class also only meets twice per week.
Such a fun class! Johanna is awesome. I think the class focuses a lot on the writing component, which kind of sucked. However, the films we watched were enjoyable and there was not a lot of homework.
Very fun class! Teaching staff is accessible and material is interesting.
Amazing course! You only meet twice a week and have a very manageable workload. The movies are fun and the other homework assignments are very beneficial for your language skills. This class is enjoyable and definitely low-stress.
This is a very fun course, but it will take some time outside of class as the homework often consists of watching full-length movies.
Sometimes the movies get tedious, especially when they're not available online and then you have to fit them into your schedule every weekend before 12 am at the Language Resource Center in Lamont. The focus is less on grammar and more on discussion, themes, vocabulary. Be expected to be tested on grammar though in addition to the movies and lecture readings. It's not a difficult class and grading is fairly lenient.
Spanish 40 is a great way to brush up on your language skills while discussing important social issues.
Lots of busy work, not too much improvement in speaking skills. It was great in exposing us to different issues and cultural aspects of Latin America, and I definitely have a greater awareness about them now. However as a language course I didn't improve much in terms of speaking, and there was just too much busy work that didn't help me at all.
With a little bit of effort, you can do very well in this class. The tests and assignments are all fairly easy, and the workload is very manageable. The more you participate in class discussion, the more you will get out of the class.
This class does a good job immersing you into real Spanish with the movies
This was the most fun Spanish class ever. Who doesn't love movies? The movies were all interesting, your skills in Spanish (especially listening) will really improve, and it's not a lot of work. The only thing to be aware of is you do watch about one movie a week. For me it was nice to take two hours on the weekend and 'do homework' by watching a movie, but it is a big section of your time you need to be aware of.
Loved the cinema component of the course. Conversation felt so much more fluid because the content was easier to analyze than in Spanish 30. Overall, a relaxed course that was well structured and helped me practice the language. More than the language, we also gained a better appreciation of culture.
It's such a fun class! Since it's only about 10 people, everyone gets to know each other. Conversations are fun and it's just a relaxed atmosphere. Very chill. Very low workload
I don't particularly like Spanish, but I enjoyed this class. If you're looking to finish up your language requirement (or get a citation) Spanish 40 is a good choice.
If you're interested in continuing your language courses and learning more about Latin American countries, it is an engaging and interesting course.
This is a great way to learn about Spanish culture. You spend about one week per movie, discussing themes, historical context, and related grammar. Discussion can be pretty fast-paced and favors those with more speaking experience. That being said, Antonio (1pm section) is very accommodating and respectful to all, and his dry sense of humor really makes the class. Workload was manageable, with equal emphasis on speaking, writing, listening, and reading.
Obed es fantastico y recuerda a particpar en la discusion porque es la sola manera en que podr mejorar.
I think a lot of your happiness in the class depends on your section. Obed was one of the best section leaders I could have asked for; he made the class fun and engaging, which in turn made everyone in the section more engaged, which made the discussions lively and deep. My experience in this class was great, but I can easily see it being a more negative experience.
This course is a great way to continue studying Spanish and have it be fun. We watched some really amazing movies, that you would never be exposed to without being in this class. It has really helped me improve my Spanish, as well as giving me more insight into Hispanic culture.
Take this class if you need to get a language citation or if you are still rusty with your spanish but need to take an advanced course at some point. It is a great grammar review and you do a lot of writing.
Very fun class. You get a lot of practice speaking Spanish and the movies are interesting.
This course is definitely an interesting one but it can get annoying when you have other work to do. Thankfully, it is not that much work but you will have to reserve some time to watch the movies.
I liked this class a lot. The movies are all focused on interesting themes and lead to diverse conversations in class. I also learned a lot about different cultures.
I enjoyed this class, but I feel like my spanish could have improved more.
The movies are really interesting, workload isn't too bad. Obed is a great TF and the class overall is really interesting and a great way to keep up with the language.
It is a really interesting class that uses films from a variety of spanish-speaking countries to broaden your knowledge and understanding of these cultures while practicing your reading, writing, and speaking on a daily basis.
This class was a lot of fun, especially if you like learning more about cultures through film. Besides watching the assigned film each week, the workload is pretty light and there are a few quizzes throughout the course rather than high-stakes midterms or finals. I felt prepared taking Spanish 40 after AP Spanish, and I would definitely recommend taking this class!!
Take this! Loved this class and all of the movies. The workload isn't bad at all and it's just an amazing class.
You will learn a lot about Spanish Culture
You will watch a lot of interesting movies, but there are a lot of assignments, especially on the front end of the course.
This is a very solid Spanish class. Really great movies. Class time mostly consists of discussing movies/other readings, learning more grammar, and occasionally doing activities. Johanna is a very enthusiastic and intelligent teacher!
This class is great for learning about different styles of speaking Spanish, and also for being able to analyze films in any language.  The discussions you have with classmates might change the way you think about films, and you'll definitely be able to brush up on your Spanish.
No te preocupes :)
This class offers ample opportunity to work on your Spanish. Complete assignments on time, watch the movies, read the readings if you want to do well. Also, test yourself on your Spanish speaking in class as it is much of your participation grade. The TFs are great!
It is important to watch the movies outside of class very thoughtfully so you can contribute during class.
This is a fun class! Sit back, enjoy the movies, and speak some Spanish along the way.
Spanish 40 is one of the more fun Spanish courses. It depends on the semester, but the movies are generally pretty good and cover a good range of themes. Additionally, you'll be exposed to a wide range of accents in the films, which could help your listening and speaking skills. The discussions in class can be very lively and contentious in the best way possible. The class also doesn't require a lot of writing so half of the outside work is watching the films while the other half is a mix of writing and reading. If you can, I highly recommend attending Obed's section. He's super nice and funny and knows how to lead discussions well.
Make sure to watch the movies ahead of time, and think about them! Read reviews if you can. Always try to space the assignments out, and never be afraid of going ambitious with your written assignments.
Spanish 40 takes the skills learned in previous levels of Spanish instruction and applies and strengthens them. If you put in the time and keep up with the fast pace, you will see your writing, speaking, and comprehension improve greatly. The material is interesting and engaging. This is my favorite level of spanish so far.
I would say that it might be a great class for someone who enjoys watching movies regardless of their quality.
If you like watching and discussing foreign films, take this class! Great discussions, not a ton of outside work.
I enjoyed this class a lot because you get to watch movies. A lot of the movies are pretty modern too. The class only meets twice a week. There are a lot of writing assignments, so plan ahead.
Johanna is really good at creating a comfortable classroom environment for students to speak. The movies ranged in quality, but some were really good!
This was a great class that helped my Spanish immensely. Amazing TF, fun materials, and a good amount of participation allowed.
Fun, excellent class. Great way to review Spanish but not too academically demanding or time-intensive. I had forgotten a lot of vocabulary and grammar rules from my previous Spanish study even though I'm close to fluent, so the class helped refresh that knowledge and help me be comfortable speaking again.
TAKE THIS CLASS. DO IT. It is so much fun! The movies are a great way to introduce students to some really complex issues facing the Spanish-speaking world, and the grammar and vocabulary you learn aren't exceptionally difficult.
This class is fairly painless. The work is moderate and most of the movies are really entertaining. Definitely a great way to fulfill the foreign language requirement.
Great class, very writing and speaking intensive, so if you're not comfortable with the nuances of Spanish it's probably best to start at a lower level. Johanna is an incredible teacher and truly takes care to make sure that all her students are learning. David provides excellent feedback on written assignments, your writing will really improve.
Spanish 40 is great!! It's a film based class, so a good amount of your weekly "work" for the week is just watching movies. The rest of the workload for the class is pretty consistent - your usual composiciones, pruebas, and a written and oral final exam. Johanna is awesome, and very high energy - you'll definitely get better at speaking, but you better be ready to be paying attention 100% percent of the time in section if you're with Johanna!
This class is such a fun Lowkey way to improve your spanish
The way in which this class is very interesting, as we learned a great deal about Spanish culture and the language through film.
This is a great course to strengthen your foundational skills in the language and gain perspective regarding the literature and cinema in Latin America.
