This is a fun class, and Celeste makes it even more entertaining!
I think this was, without a doubt, the best course I have taken here at Harvard. If you put the effort and time into the work, it's amazing how much progress you will make my the end of the semester. Juan Pablo was an amazing professor and he always kept us laughing, but also prepared us so well. It's amazing how much I've learned, but Juan Pablo always keeps the class fun and interesting. Also, the setup of the class is great because you get to know the other students by working in pairs. This is something that I thought was lacking in other foreign language classes. I would recommend this course to anyone interested in taking Spanish and tell them that Juan Pablo is an amazing professor.
Es una clase muy buena. Yo aprendi mucho en esta clase.
9 am is no good
well taught, enjoyable
The class is a lot of fun. Definitely not your typical law-school class (I'm a law student)
It's really fun and pretty easy. But it is a fair amount of work.
If you want to learn Spanish, you'll definitely learn a lot in this class.
Overall course structure is good, but what really makes the difference in this type of class is the professor.  Therefore, I enthusiastically recommend taking this class with Juan-Pablo.
This class is a great, painless way to get your feet wet in a new language!
Spanish Aa is incredibly fun, and very different from all other Harvard classes.
Good introduction to Spanish.
Choose Celeste as your TF!
This is such a wonderful class! Everyone at Harvard should take it!
Definitely! My best class this semester.
Taking Spanish Aa with Celeste Moreno will be the best decision you have ever made. I learned a lot in a very relaxed, very fun environment.
This course is very easy if you already know another romance language.
Beginner languages at Harvard are so much fun!  Low stress, and you gain a great new life skill.  You also get to know your classmates.
if you're really serious about spanish take the intensive course
It's a great class, very interesting and you learn really fast. However this class demands some time commitment, even though it seems easy. We learn a lot of vocabulary very fast and if one isn't careful, it's easy to get left behind.
It is a very fun class and you will learn a great deal of Spanish. The class focuses on speaking which is something you couldn't learn on your own.
Juan Pablo is the best!
I would tell them to take this course with Celeste!!  I think this class can really help someone with zero Spanish skills (and zero language skills for that matter) become a beginning Spanish speaker, and I'm just so glad that I took this class here in my time at Harvard.  I also think students from other schools should know that this class is easy to fit into a graduate course load because it moves at a constant pace (which means that you know what to expect/how to manage your work during the first few meetings of the class.  Also,  this course has a reasonable number of assignments.
You learn a lot while you don't even realize it.
Juan Pablo is one of the best instructors at Harvard.
It's great to begin studying Spanish and I learned a surprising amount in one semester!
Another Romance language helps.
do your homework every night
I would tell them that it's immersive and that it is worth learning through this system despite the initial struggles.
Make sure you do all the online homeowrk in advance
This class is extremely fun and allows you to learn quite a bit of Spanish in only one semester. My TF and all of the TFs I've heard about are extremely amazing and make the sections very fun and informative! Definitely recommend this class if you're interested in learning/studying Spanish.
This course is rigorous but rewarding.
The speed in which Spanish is acquired is phenomenal.
Spanish Aa is an easy but interesting course- in order to get a lot out of it, you must make a good deal of effort outside of the classroom (meeting with the TF, watching films, practicing, etc.) Alberto Castillo Ventura is a fantastic and helpful TF.
A lot harder than expected; quizzes are hard and the final exam required lots of rote memorization.
This class is very imersive and soo much fun! I became close with a lot of others in my section and it was a comfortable class structure.
This class is a good place to start/refresh. I enjoyed learning spanish quickly in a short period of time.
Spanish is a valuable asset to society and a beautiful language to learn. Jose makes the class fun, informative, and he works so hard to keep us students happy. He is by far the best proctor I have seen in the department.
This is a great course in a language that is necessary for many professions.  I have learned an amazing amount in one semester.  However, this class takes up a lot of time.  It meets 4 days a week and there is nightly homework, weekly quizzes that you will need to study for, and writing assignments.  Expect to spend at least 1-4 hours a night on this course during the week.
It is fun, helpful, and pretty easy. The tests are tougher because a lot of writing is involved, but they are graded fairly.
You will definitely come away from this class with a knowledge of how to speak, read, write, and understand basic spanish. The class sizes are always around 15 kids, which facilitates discussion and participation.  However, unless you are taking this class to fulfill a language requirement, there is always the question of whether you want to devote one of your class slots to taking a class that isn't is special or unique to Harvard; the skills you garner and the material presented in this class are similar to those you would see in a high school setting.
Me gusta espaol
Very fun class that introduces the Spanish language.
If you are looking to learn spanish quickly and meet new people through the interactive nature of the class, take it!
I learned a ton of spanish and could actually communicate with other spanish speakers (albeit probably slightly incorrectly)
Many students who have already taken years of spanish take this course, so some background in spanish would be helpful.
Very useful class, great instructor
It's easy if you pay attention.
The course does a really good job of teaching a lot of introductory Spanish - including speaking, grammar, and culture - in only one semester. The smaller class size is nice and definitely helpful.
Some Spanish experience is helpful for the course because it is easy for a student who has never taken Spanish before to become disheartened or intimidated when placed in a class with others who have taken Spanish in high school. But when comparing my knowledge at the beginning of the course to the end, I have definitely learned a lot regardless of prior experience. Spanish AA was one of my favorite classes this semester because it felt rewarding to reflect on everything that I learned over the course of a couple months.
The only thing to keep in mid about this class is that most people are taking it to fulfill the language requirement and have taken spanish classes before so if you are taking this class for fun and have never studied spanish before, you might find it a little frustrating. However, if you study a bit more than others, it will be fine.
If you already speak a romance language, this class may not be worth your time.  While the pace is reasonable, the course is not very rigorous.  The atmosphere in the class is set by people who are just trying to fill a language requirement, so it is difficult to feel like there is a strong emphasis on learning the language well.
It's a fun course. Be sure to do the online assignments each night they are assigned. This way you will stay caught up. Also, try to practice speaking with Spanish-speaking friends outside of class in order that you can actually speak a little Spanish by the end of the semester.
It helps a lot to have some Spanish in high school but not necessary. Cristina is very funny and is a great TA.
Great class! Very reasonable workload and plenty of opportunities for assistance.
For those with no Spanish or Romance Language background, this course can be hard! This course actually moves quite quickly. Be warned that this isn't high school Spanish.
- Spanish tends to be easier than other language courses and is extremely useful. Take it!- very little homework on a nightly basis (done online)- exams adequately and fairly evaluate knowledge of course material covered- weekly written assignments are simple enough- instructors are great
I personally love languages and was pleased with how much I learned in this semester putting in very little effort. I feel we covered a lot and I'm quite pleased with how much Spanish I can now speak Disclaimer: I was already fluent in Italian, so I had a bit of a head start!
Great introduction to the Spanish language. If you're really good with languages, you may want to consider Spanish Acd if you have the time for the extra homework involved. Spanish Aa was at fairly slow pace but the work outside of class was not that extensive and conducive to other time-intensive activities.
good class
Well paced instruction in introductory Spanish. The tests are very manageable, and the homework only takes about a half hour every night.
The class is great for learning basic Spanish.
Too be successful in this class you should actively participate in class discussions and activities. Also reading, and re-reading the materials in the book for each chapter will make you a success in spanish aa.
You need to study for this class! While challenging, this is the most rewarding language program I have ever been a part of.
read each chapter and do not rely solely on what you learn in class
Depending on which TF you get, this class could be very difficult for somebody who doesn't know any spanish at all prior to taking it.
If you've taken a bunch of spanish in high school take this class
Homework is assigned just about every night, but it is very manageable. Do not wait until the last minute to study for exams and quizzes and this class will be very enjoyable.
Great course.  Absolutely take it if you need a language requirement.
This class is very good at introducing Spanish.
Try to make time to study beyond the homework assignments
Good class for the language requirement
If you're interested in learning Spanish and have no prior experience, this is the place to be. There will be students who have taken up to AP Spanish in high school yet are still in this course - try not to let that get to you.
Some people in the class have already taken spanish and so you will feel behind. however, if you put in the time to study and review on your own, you will do fine. but dont expect to not do the extra at home work and be at the same level as others who have taken spanish in high school.
The homework is ridiculously unhelpful, but the TFs are great! I picked up a lot of the basics I needed--Cristina is great, I really recommend her section!
Take this course if considering a new language.  You will make a ton of progress in one semester.
This class will provide you with a solid Spanish speaking foundation.
Great introduction to the spanish language.
Obed is a great section leader who made the class very fun. Make sure to study before class, it helps a lot!
Overall, Spanish Aa is a great class. You actually learn a LOT of Spanish over the course of the semester, but you learn it in such a way that is both interesting but not rushed in any way. It is not a difficult class, but if you have no previous experience with Spanish (like me), then you will need to put in some daily work (not much) to stay on top of things and not get behind. This is not a difficult class, but I suppose it can be if you fall behind and don't have previous experience. The grade distribution is very fair, and the quizzes at the end of the chapters give you a very good idea of where you are in relation to full understanding of the material. They also have you speak out in section quite frequently to get you used to the idea of conversation in Spanish. Overall, very good class!
This is a great course in which to learn the basics of Spanish. It is not a lot of work outside of class and section is a great way to have fun and immerse yourself at the same time.
Espaol es genial!
No Spanish background is necessary but be prepared to be in a class with many students who have taken Spanish for numerous years in high school. Having said this, the class is interactive and fun.
The course isn't too difficult, but it'll only be worth while if you take it seriously and do all of the work on your own. Don't use translators, and make sure you study often in order to retain the information instead of just studying for quizzes. Also, be really active in class and use the things you learn outside of class. That's all easier said than done, I know.
Great introduction to Spanish that leaves you with a solid foundation to use the language.
I highly recommend the class because it not only fosters your language ability but also intrigues you to delve more into the language and the culture it originated from.
TF's differ widely and the marking is arbitrary. be cautious when sectioning.
It is a very enjoyable class, but if you hate foreign languages like me, you will hate it. It is taught in ALL Spanish, which isn't bad, but if you have no desire to learn it, it can be a struggle. You also move very fast, so be prepared.
There was a legitimate language barrier with my teacher - he almost spoke worse English than I did Spanish. It was a constant struggle and was certainly not worth it, especially for an Aa class. Look at other languages EVEN IF you've done some Spanish before
Very fast paced. Stay organized
If you want to learn a language in life, this is the time to do it and this class is a great way to start.
Very basic but good
If you want to take a foreign language course that is extremely useful while not too difficult, then this is the course for you.
The class moved quickly, but if you are dedicated, you really feel like you are learning the language.
Obed is the best. If you take this class take it with him.
Do the online activities and study for the quizzes.  Also stay on top of the work.
Do the online activities
I took Spanish Aa as a fifth class, and I found it to be very manageable.  I think that you will definitely get more out of the course if you have more time to commit to memorizing grammar and vocabulary, etc.  I often found myself studying the night before a quiz when it really would have been more helpful to have had time to commit things to memory along the way.  Alberto is a great TF who provides awesome feedback on all of the assignments.
Spanish is a valuable tool in life, so pay attention.
Teacher was fun and very nice. She made the curriculum as difficult as she could, but that only helps us learn the language.
Mucho bueno en la casa!
More work than expected and often times difficult to have clear instruction during the sections.
I would like to tell future students that despite being the first level of Spanish, this class is spoken strictly (usually) in Spanish. Therefore, it's difficult to understand what the teacher is saying at times, especially if you have never really heard the language before. But if you keep up with the readings/chapters then it will be very easy to understand! The readings are not difficult or long.
I took this class as part of my language requirement but learned an incredible amount. If you are looking to start a new language, this is a great option. There is not a huge amount of work but you are push in class to immerse yourself in the language, meaning you make great progress given the amount of time. Highly recommended!
It is a good class if you are trying to fulfill a language requirement.
Do not hesitate to take a language course if you don't have any prior knowledge. You will learn a lot in a semester and be amazed at your progress.
This class is amazing. Definitely read the textbook, because it is the resource the entire class is based on. Whenever possible, read before class (though it's not assigned), because then you can really participate and focus on pronunciation or sentence structure instead of seeing the material for the first time. Take the homework seriously, because although it's easy to fake your way through it, it's really helpful practice.
Make sure you get a good TF. Obed was amazing but if you get a tf you don' like, switch or suffer the consequences
This course is unexpectedly a quicker pace and more in depth than you may come into it thinking.
Take spanish!!! Somewhat similar to english and is easy to learn.
This is a good introduction class. You learn a lot of basics and by the end of the semester, you will be able to engage in a conversation with another person in Spanish. However, material gets covered very quickly. Since this class meets four times a week, you go through a chapter within a week and a half and are subsequently tested. But if you stay on top of the online assignments and weekly essays, it'll be manageable. If you want to learn the basics about Spanish, take this class!
It's definitely not designed for students who are actual beginners of Spanish.
Fun class, change of pace from the traditional courses at Harvard.
This class was really interesting, and I feel like my spanish skills have greatly improved. Also I feel comfortable conversing with other spanish speakers.
Learn spanish before starting the class.
Go to class every day.
This class is fastly moving, meaning that you learn a lot in 4 months. By the end of semester you realize that you can already have conversations in Spanish and you can understand a lot! David is a wonderful teacher, and the class is very exciting, interesting and very much fun! I definitely recommend taking this class; you will not regret this, so just take it!!!
Put the work in this class and you will not regret is at the end. You can actually made great grades with a little effort.
If you want to learn Spanish, you will. If you only care about getting your language out of the way, this is also for you. However, be aware the class is tedious. There is homework everyday that is electronically checked and weekly quizzes and writing assignments. Although not particularly difficult, can be annoying.
Be prepared for students who are much better at espanol than you!
Easy, fun, and very useful. My only regret is not taking this earlier in my college career--maybe I would have done a Spanish citation! I was an older college student in a class of mostly freshmen and sophomores, but it's totally fine if you're a junior or senior (or even a grad student).
Spanish AA is a great way to start a new language, and isn't too difficult even if you've never taken a romance language before. The work is fairly minimal.
La clase es muy divertido. Take the class to see what this means and if you agree.
Be prepared to be in a class with students who have taken 3+ years of Spanish in High School. Also, from Day 1, your TF will almost never speak English. If you never took a Spanish class before, like I did, this can be very discouraging early on. However, the class is taught in a way so that you will quickly catch up. The book is your best friend. It is expensive, but it is well written and it'll help you when you are lost.
The class was fun and helpful. Do not take at 9 A.M. because that can make the class a struggle.
These classes move so quickly! Honestly, we had class everyday of the week and homework every single day. If you miss even one day, you stand the chance of falling behind very quickly. Otherwise, section is very fun and I think this class was one of the more "chill" ones at Harvard.
This class was interesting and enjoyable.
This is a good beginner class for learning Spanish, even if you haven't taken Spanish before.  With that said, many people in the class will have taken Spanish before during high school, but don't let that influence your decision of whether or not you take this class.
Basically what you would expect out of an intro level spanish course. Lots of busy work.
Very well-explained and TFs are really helfpul; definitely way too easy for anyone who has a background in spanish.
Just your basic introductory Spanish class
If you have a good TF and a little bit of Spanish experience this class is amazing.  Very helpful and easy.
This course is great. You will feel uncomfortable at first because the class atmosphere forces you to speak and practice. However, this is good because the only way to learn a new language is to speak it and hear it all of the time. This course is taught solely in Spanish. It might be overwhelming at first, especially since this is a beginning course, but you will appreciate it, trust me!
The class is fairly easy. It is taught mainly in spanish so be ready to struggle at first.
very intense but useful.
Great beginner spanish course. David Yague-Gonzalez is great.
most students already have experience with Spanish
Participate in section, use office hours, and keep up to date with your daily activities-- they help a lot more than you think they might!
Great class, easy and fun.
Very great and fun way to learn spanish with other students who are wanting to learn the language as well.
Make sure you do your Ejercicio Escrito.
Great introduction to Spanish. I was astounded with how much I was able to speak after one semester.
Great teacher and class.
This is a great course for gaining a foundation in spanish.
It is likely that others in the class have had more than 2 years of Spanish prior to taking this course so that the class may be moving fast for true beginners.
Spanish AA is a fantastic class with great TF's. I highly reccommend it for anyone who is interested in learning a new language.
It's a good course, not bad if you have a background in spanish. If you didn't know any spanish coming in it'll be a lot of work.
fast-paced, but if you want to learn the language it is quite effective
Take it seriously and try to learn the language.
Antonio is awesome! He's such a cool guy and a great teacher. I really liked learning about the cultures of different Spanish-speaking countries in the cultural component, getting to listen to Spanish music, and watching "Volver," an amazing movie. Spanish was such a fun class: not too much pressure and not too much work, but you still learn a lot. The games were really fun too, and Antonio was so sweet, sometimes he'd even bring us little prizes and give us all some. He definitely made our class fun and engaging. I like how he only spoke in Spanish, so we couldn't help picking it up just from listening to him. If you take this class, definitely take it with Antonio!
Absolutely loved it. Gives you a great sense of the Spanish language. Is a lot of fun and I am excited to take more spanish classes in the future!
To keep up with the work and study for the quizzes.
This is an introductory language class. It can be fun and engaging, but it's a very different animal than most of the other academic courses. Keep that in mind as you study and engage with the language.
It's a great class that is pretty easy, does not consume very much time, and will give you a pretty good grasp of basic Spanish.
A great way to begin learning Spanish.
Great course! A must.
Don't take it. It's a terrible course. You could easily teach yourself all of the material and then test out of it. For the amount of time you spend in class (four hours a week) this classes teaches you surprisingly little.
This is a wonderful course. The immersion experience it provides is extremely useful and beneficial in speaking spanish fluently, if that is a goal of yours. This course may be a bit challenging if you've never ever had experience with the language. The course moves really fast, and covers nearly as much Spanish as I covered in three years of high school! Still it is very great experience. Take it!
The class moves really fast, but you'll learn a ton!  Stay on top of homework because it's so easy to fall behind.
Spanish Aa is really a great introduction to Spanish. I came in with very very little prior exposure to Spanish and am coming out able to hold simple conversations and read some passages. This course moves pretty quickly and it's important to stay on top of the work, but if you do the online assignments daily then you will earn the grade that you want.
Great Spanish class for beginners.
A lot like a high school spanish class.  I had fun, but there is a lot of busy work.  Easy if you've taken some spanish in high school
Great class! Super easy, David is the best!
be willing to work
Very good introduction to spanish
Good course, with a faster pace that I expected.
I would tell them that it takes about 2 hours of studying a night to stay on top of things.
The class moves very quickly, but it is enjoyable.
Learning Spanish will always be important and this is a very enjoyable and low stress way of going about it - and an effective one.
If you want to make sure you have a solid understanding of spanish and want to hold a casual conversation in spanish take this class because thats what it provides for you
Spanish Aa is a wonderful course, especially for people who find languages difficult to learn, because the TFs are extremely helpful and supportive!
I actually learned a lot, which is unusual for me (language is NOT my strong point), and I had so much fun doing it!
It is a great class with structure.
It is important to understand going into Spanish Aa that there are likely others who already have a Spanish background. This should not impact how you approach the class though.
You will learn Spanish.
It is a great way to get introduced to a language that is already very much prominent and widespread in its use.
I would tell future students that they will finish this class with a solid ability to be able to communicate (basically) with spanish speakers.
A good way to take care of your requirement.
The course was one of my favorite classes of the semester. My teacher, Marta Llorente Bravo, was very helpful and my classmates were also fun. The class helps you learn basic spanish but does move fairly quickly and if you're like me and have trouble with languages, you do have to put some time into it.
This course provides an excellent introduction to the Spanish language. Its amazing how much I learned over the course of the semester. By the end of the class, I could converse relatively easily with native Spanish speakers. My TF did an excellent job of teaching us about confusing grammar points, and the textbook and online resources provide a wealth of useful vocabulary and writing practice. Spanish Aa is an interesting, practical, and fun course that is a great testament to the quality of Harvards Romance Languages & Literatures department.
Don't take it at 9 am.
Very worthwhile.
You learn fast and well. Lots of integrated techniques help you along the way. Maria Jose Martinez Alvarez is a wonderful teacher in every respect!
Its a great class with a lot of work, simply because it is a new language.  However, it is manageable.
This class is so much fun! The materials and teachers are all great and really give you a good introduction to Spanish. Professor Parra was incredible, but from talking to friends I gathered that almost all the tfs were quite good.
It is boring but easy
It's a great introduction to the spanish language.
This class is a perfect introduction to a foreign language.
This class is great and well worth your time if you want an interesting mostly easy language class. CELESTE is the bomb, so try to get her if you can. It starts out very easy with no need to study, but be warned that by the end there will be some work. Take it and Enjoy it.
The class was not too difficult but very entertaining and interesting.
People around you will have taken Spanish before. An unfortunate but likely truth.
Good way to pick up the language requirement
This is a good course and you have to study more than you think. It's not super friendly for people who have no previous experience in Spanish.
Be ready to work your but off but gain so much while doing so
Tania was a fantastic TF. Class is easy especially is you have background w/ Spanish. Seriously though request she. She is helpful, friendly, funny, and smart - the perfect TF combination.
Keep up with the vocabulary.  Grammar is not that hard to learn, but you forget vocabulary very easily.
pretty easy.
While you won't become fluent after a semester, if you put the time into it you can really take a lot out of this class. I am able to understand much of what native speakers say during a conversation. I also have the tools to continue learning on my own.
It can be overwhelming to have a teacher who speaks spanish through out the class off the bat, especially when you have never taken the language before, but it is a language that is somewhat easy to pick up and questions will always be answered if you ask them!
hard to grasp but easy with study
A overall good class which helps you learn spanish slowly and without extreme difficulty.
This is a pretty good course. There is pretty much no homework, and it teaches you how to speak pretty well.
Definitely take it if you are looking to learn basic Spanish. I would definitely recommend it for students of any year who are looking for a language class that is not too intensive but one that will help them to move forward in a language.
the course picks up quickly and isn't as easy as some would think, especially if you haven't taken spanish at all before
It can be annoying going to class every day but you learn a lot
complete your homework thoroughly.
Study vocab every week!
Very fun class (if you get the right TF).
David Yague is an incredible professor. Get him if you can!
Great, easy, fun, relaxed class to learn Spanish.
Take this class if you do not feel confident in your basic Spanish abilities.
Most of the top grades in the class handed out to the grad students in Spanish AA or the students who have taken several years of spanish in high school but "forgot" the material for the placement exam.  It is difficult to speak up in class if you're a weaker student without having people laugh at you.  Section leader doesn't not speak very good English- assignments and explanations in Spanish from day one.  Section leader late on one of the days of the final exam; time cut short; students did not finish the exam.
It is a very fun and yet intense learning environment, so it is easy to enjoy.
An easy and relatively enjoyable way to fill your language requirement. And you will get pretty good at Spanish, which is a rather useful skill in this world.
Very good class. Uses activities to incorporate new vocabulary.  Very enjoyable class in a friendly environment.
This course was amazing and really facilitated learning the language. Although I would assume that the result is very proponent of the instructor. Profesora Para was absolutely amazing.
It is very hard. They actually mean to tech you spanish and you are expected to remember everything after it is told to you one time. If you are not a "linguist" be prepared for a VERY HARD course.
It's good to fulfill the language requirement. I personally am not a language minded person so I didn't love it, but you do come out of it having a basic understanding of the language. Also it's usually painless and a great easy 4th class most of the time.
It is definitely helpful if you want to learn Spanish, moving much faster than high school and challenging you to learn a great deal of vocabulary.  I think my knowledge of Spanish has increased a lot and it's not a ton of work per week.  Additionally, it balanced my heavy course load.  I would definitely recommend this course as a great way for beginners to improve their skills and learn basic Spanish.
Spanish is a great language to learn
Listen carefully!  There is a lot to take in.
Much more applicable than any other language class.
The teachers are very friendly and approachable. Surprisingly, we get through a lot of new things and while the class seems a bit high school-y, the balance that this class provides to the typical schedule is much appreciated. Take this classit's great! If you get the department head, like me, then you are bound to love the class.
Make sure to keep up with the online assignments and try to speak as much as you can outside of class.
The class is fun and not too difficult. Plus, learning a language is extremely beneficial.
I would tell future students that this is a great course if you would like to begin learning Spanish, but do be prepared for it to move quickly and there is a lot of vocabulary and verbs to learn for every quiz.  Also, if you have trouble with the pronunciation of foreign languages, this may not be the best language to take because the pronuncitation instruction is not great.  However, the course does not require a lot of time outside of studying for the quizzes and the midterm/final.
its a fun language to learn
Take a language while you can at Harvard! And if you're looking for something relatively simple to pick up and especially useful in the US, take Spanish! The only thing I regret not having done is taken this class earlier. ~Harvard senior '12
very easy course with minimum work. if you are just starting spanish, take this class.
This is very well-taught (if you have Maria Luisa-Parra--I have heard that not all the TF's are as good as her, which is unsurprising because she was fantastic). It was a great experience, wasn't too hard, and I learned a lot.
It's a great intro spanish class that does not require that much work. I was looking forward to the class every day, which tells a lot ...
If you wish to receive a strong foundation in Spanish then take this class.
Very good class in beginning spanish.
make sure you get a good section leader, the material is totally manageable
This class is fun, but beware if you have no previous spanish experience as half of my class was athletes with 2-3 years of spanish in high school.
Great class. Not too hard, you learn tons, flexible grading. Awesome to learn a new language. At the end of a semester you really can begin to speak Spanish. Awesome.
Best intro language course at Harvard
Try to take this course even if you have taken spanish before. You will learn new things everyday and your listening and speaking ability will improve more than you would think.
DOn't be intimidated by classamtes with some knowledge of Spanish. None at all is required. Pace is quite slow if you are serious about learning the language, and there's a noticable gap between people taking the course for requirement and people taking it because they want to learn spanish.
It is an amazing course.
Stay on top of the work and review the work a few times a week will lead to a very good grade.
You really need a background in Spanish to excel in this course. My teacher even noted she found it difficult to teach to people of all different levels. In a beginner's course, I felt there should be only students in the true beginner level.
It's a great and fun class.
My teacher is amazing and very helpful!
Stay on top of all course work and practice speaking Spanish whenever possible.
You cover a lot of information in this course, but whether or not you actually "learn" that information is debatable.  You should find a way to practice speaking outside of class on your own, because there are not enough opportunists in class.
Meet some people in your class and it will be fun.
The class gives you a great opportunity to learn Spanish at a fitting pace.
This class is great, and low stress, which makes for a good fall, freshman semester course for a segway into college. But make sure to always do daily work, or you will fall behind.
You can take it as a relax to devote one hour everyday come to the spanish class.
It requires work daily, you can't leave the homework till the weekend or cram before the tests, you have to go home after each class and work for a couple of hours there and then or you'll forget important things.
Seor Yague is an incredible teacher.  He makes sure the class is actively participating, with enthusiasm too!  He has a good grasp on the spanish language not just in Spain but in other countries too like south American countries and Central American countries too.  He can help you out with questions you have or if you ever need to go get help.
If you keep up with the reading, indulge in the homework, and participate in class, this course will be educational and practical for real-world application.
A TON of groupwork in class.  Switch sections early on if you have problems with your TF.  One TF only speaks in spanish- watch out for her early on. This same TF rushed through the lessons and was very HARSH with grading.  My grades were lower that those grades in other sections.
Your TF makes or breaks your grade so work with him/her to help yourself.
Not as easy as you think and some TFs grade harder than others.
It is a good class to take as an easy way to learn Spanish. Not too demanding and useful at the same time.
Not REALLY intro spanish... a lot of people had taken spanish before and it seemed like they should've been in a different class because I needed my professor to go slower than they did!!!
A fun class with a light workload, in which you learn a lot of useful material quickly.
Only take this is you took some Spanish in high school.
This is a great elementary course in Spanish.
An easy class if you already know Spanish and a good one to learn from if you dont
You definitely should read the book as often as possible.
This is truly a wonderful class that has led me to fall in love with the language.
This is a fun, engaging, and enjoyable course. The work is manageable and you do gain language skills. You won't be fluent by the end, but my knowledge was greatly improved. Take this and enjoy!
Fun, not too difficult class. Will actually give you a basis of Spanish.
This class is a great way to acquire new perspectives.
Do not take this course if you have no previous experience with spanish.
It is a fast pace class that is thorough with material
This is a great course to take freshman year.
This course moves at a very fast pace, so keep up and always be present in class.
Quickly paced, but a great course.
Stay up with the work- it all builds on itself.
Even if you can get by with a solid bank of vocabulary, strive to learn as much as you can.
It moves at a very fast pace so stay on top of your work!
Spanish is great, but make sure you're ready for what might be a disappointing class environment (depending on how seriously the other students take the class).
Amazingly fun class that brings the language of spanish to life.
It's even more enriching to learn a new language than one would expect.
The class is easy, useful, efficient. Without sacrificing too much time you get a chance to learn a new language. The classes are fun, there's no pressure. Unless you really hate learning new languages, I see no disadvantages of this class.
Wonderful intro course that can help prepare any student with functional spanish in a world that is becoming more and more diverse.
In order to grow more quickly in verbal conversation skills, it might be useful to sign up for outside tutoring sessions through the romance language department or to set up practice sessions beyond class. The effort you put in both in class and outside is what helps you learn; attending class is not enough.
it's very enjoyable and you learn a lot. helps you become conversational in the first semester!
It was very informational and helpful in learning spanish
It's a fun and relatively easy time if you want to learn some Spanish.
This course was a really fun way to learn another language quickly with a strong teacher and a good community of students.
Embrace the immersion process. Don't speak (or think) any more English than is absolutely necessary.
Good class.
Easy, painless intro to Spanish. Not a bad way to fulfill the foreign language requirement.
You will learn a great deal of Spanish, though don't expect to be able to do any more than struggle through a basic conversation. The assessments are ridiculously easy, though the TF will not speak English to you, and since you supposedly don't speak Spanish yet, this causes some issues.
This class is really fun! It is very relaxed and interesting. If you want to learn a language, spanish is a lowkey way to do it
if you have a basic understanding of Spanish, this class will help you truly develop your Spanish speaking/writing skills
This class is a good way to get your language requirement out of the way. While it takes quite a bit time to memorize vocab if you have not taken spanish before but over all its not that hard
This class is great, you will learn a lot of Spanish quickly.
It may depend on the specific section, but I found it to be an enjoyable way to learn some Spanish. The pace of the course was nice in that I felt that I was learning new material every week, but was not overwhelmed or stressed.
Take this if you want basic knowledge of spanish.
Great way to begin learning a language.
Beginning Spanish is harder than you think. The teacher speaks hardly an English from day 1 so you have to catch on to what she is saying. It can be very difficult at times.
I would recommend taking this class only if you are willing and able to devote a lot of study time to the subject.  The class is very intensive, and I would not recommend taking it if you are looking for an elective rather than a requirement.
Make sure to study a lot on your own
It was fun and easy.
Easy class but if you don't do any homework you will find it hard.
Fun, easy, laid back.
I recommend this course if you have previous knowledge in Spanish, or if you are an extremely quick learner.
Sections are great, and you learn a lot. Take advantage of online resources.
Great class, well, great teacher.
This class is a great way to get an introduction to Spanish. You will come away from the course with a definite sense of having learned the language and be able to read signs and understand conversational Spanish here and there.
Tried latin --- spanish aa is 10x easier than intro latin -- i prob should have known that from the start though.
Spanish Aa is a great class to take that has simple high school style work, and that changes up the kind of thinking you do for other classes.
it moves a lot faster than high school language classes, but you'll be happy with how much you know by the endwhich TF you have can make a huge difference
Engaging, fun and truly enjoyable!
An excellent method for studying a foreign language.
The class was extremely poorly executed. That's all there is to say.
I wouldn't take it unless you are either very good at learning foreign languages naturally or have a lot of extra time to devote to learning the language
If you want an incredibly easy but ultimately unsatisfying language course, take this.
It is a very fun and fast-paced class. You get to know your classmates and professor well, and it is an engaging environment. It is a nice break from huge lecture classes.
Great class, and the TF I had was tremendous.
It is very entertaining, a class you look forward to everyday, without having to worry about prblem sets or papers.
you will learn a lot and the work is easy to manage.
This class is low-key, plus you get to learn the basics of Spanish.
Spanish Aa is really a fantastic way to learn the basics of Spanish! You will learn a lot and the pace is totally fine!
Fantastic course and Humberto is excellent.
Winston Groman is the Best !Take this class. You'll learn a lot.
It's a great class! Language classes at Harvard are great to take!
It's a great class, and the more you put into it the more you get out of it. It's probably one of the easiest language classes offered, but it's really useful and you can learn a lot in a semester.
Stay with the pages of the book and attend every class and it will tremendously help your spanish.
Spanish Aa is fun, easy, and you learn a lot! I very strongly recommend it. Take it as an elective or to meet your language requirement - you won't regret it!
Take this class!
Spanish Aa is a lot of fun and you learn a lot of material. Humberto is also great, and the course is very fair and not difficult.
The time in class is worthwhile and necessary for learning the language. You will learn a lot, meet other students, and have fun!
This class is an awesome introduction to spanish language and culture. if you would like to learn multiple languages, Spanish is easily accessible and fits in your schedule.
Absolutely wonderful. I took the 9am class, but even though it was so early in the morning, I looked forward to it everyday. Really gets you to nail down a good amount of Spanish by the end of the first semester. By the end, I sometimes started dreaming in Spanish, no joke.
This is a very useful, effective introduction to Spanish. Relatively easy, though the tests stop being easy after the first month, and you will need to study more.
Celeste was a great teacher and made the class enjoyable and did her best to help.
A very good overview of basic Spanish that does not require too much work--but if you really want to learn Spanish, consider taking Abc. Try not to take this class at 9AM, if possible, because you'll probably be asleep through half the classes.
Make sure you attend class and look through the material outside of class in order to obtain a full understanding of the information.
you'll learn spanish
The best language class I have ever taken!
It is not a piece of cake. You will need to study for quizzes and it is helpful to know some spanish before because most students have some knowledge going into it.
It is a lot of fun. I took it as a 5th class and it turned out to be a lot more work than I thought it would be. I would definitely recommend it though!
A fun way to learn Spanish. Winston is cool.
You will learn a lot of Spanish!
Take it! If you have any interest in learning languages Spanish is a wonderful place to start (or continue!)
This is a great course if you want a basic grasp on the Spanish language, but you must be willing to put in a significant amount of work outside of class.
Spanish Aa is very easy, if you keep up with the work. It is a nice supplement to a more difficult course load.
Consider intensive spanish if you really want to become proficient. This class is excellent at giving a taste of spanish but does not go far enough in the study of spanish to make you proficient.
Good for a fundamental background in spanish.
you gotta take it... so at least try to get celeste.
Learning Spanish is fun here.
Spanish Aa is a great class to take to get a solid background in Spanish. I feel comfortable conversing with Spanish-speakers and can get by comfortably in Spanish-speaking countries now!
It's ok if you need or want to learn Spanish.  I definitely would not take it just for the sake of taking some foreign language.  My other two languages have been much more interesting, challenging, and fun.
This class is fantastic.  I love Nicole.
This class is extremely well taught and you will actually learn a lot of Spanish by the end of it.  It is an amazing senior spring class.
It is great class!  The TFs are great!  Take it!
Great class, spanish is super easy and useful!
This class will be among the best you will take at Harvard. Not only is the workload not too bad, the preceptors are impeccable. TAKE IT!!!
Great tutor. You will learn a great deal very quickly.
Spanish Aa promises to build a solid and strong foundation in the basics of Spanish for any student. You will be surrounded by fun activities, from listening to Spanish music videos to creating silly skits and acting them out, all of which will help you grow in your ability to comprehend the language. This course was a non-stressful and informative experience for me, and I am very sure it can be for you too! It has also made me more interested in Spanish culture and Latin American countries - this course is the full package.
Good class, you learn a lot. I think it takes extra effort to actually become conversational though. Also, some of the stuff you learn is not very useful. For example, there's a chapter on technology and you learn words like 'archive' which no one would ever use.
This is a great 5th class if you're very familiar with foreign languages. Just remember to do the daily online assignments.
fun way to learn spanish. David was an amazing TF.
It's fast-paced and difficult. But you do learn espanol.
You will know a ton of Spanish after completing this course!
It's really great and fun
If Celeste Moreno is still teaching, you need to take this class! Either way taking Spanish is a great language to learn. It's becoming so important in the US and is spoken all over the world. The language department at Harvard is fantastic and really interesting.
It's a great and accessible way to start learning a new language at Harvard. I had never spoken Spanish before in my life and by the end of the semester I was able to say sentences in the past tense. It's been quite a transformation!
It's easy to get by without working very hard, but I think it is worth putting the effort in to review things on your own outside of class and to speak in Spanish during the class.
If you want to learn Spanish, I would recommend taking the Intensive Spanish Acd. Regardless I would recommend this class. The teachers really care about you.
Spanish AA is a good introduction to Spanish; you will learn a lot of the language.
Awesome class. David is an amazing TF! You learn a lot and have so much fun!
Make sure to complete your homework daily, and you should be set.
This class was fabulous. The class got really close, and David is awesome. I feel like I learned a lot of Spanish without a stressful workload.
This class is great. In a single semester, I've managed to learn a ton of Spanish, and can (for the most part) understand Spanish when it is spoken around me.  If you can, get Celeste as your TF. Seriously one of the best TFs I've had at Harvard. Her enthusiasm is wonderful!
This class is fun and interactive. You will learn quite a bit of spanish in just one semester. As long as you keep up with exercises and attend class, it is fairly simple to do well on assignments and to learn a lot.
Great class if you're willing to have a constant positive attitude about it. Since it's M-Th and new material every day, being inflexible and pessimistic is the first way to fall behind and not get very much out of it.
This is a great and light course, that you are going to learn and have fun at the same time! David is awesome!
it provides a good foundation in a non-stressful, non-competitive learning environment
Great class to master basic Spanish, Celeste Moreno is an excellent instructor and always really upbeat, fun and engaging so see if you can get into her section.
Make sure the instructor is good
it seems hard as you go through the material for the first time, but by the end, it all comes together and makes sense
This course is super easy and very useful in the real world because so many people speak Spanish. You will learn a lot and enjoy yourself.
This course is so effective. By the end of it, you will be able to communicate in Spanish in writing and in speech, wherever you intend to travel.
Take it if you want to learn spanish.
Loved it.
Such a great way to begin learning Spanish! I had no prior Spanish knowledge, and I think if you put a little bit of work in, you will gain a lot!
Come in with a background of spanish.
Need to be aware of large workload
It is a really fun class and the teacher is also very fun (and good looking for what thats worth)
As long as you keep up on a daily basis, it is a breeze.
This is a comprehensive introduction to Spanish. One has to be self-driven and motivated though, to get out of the course what is possible of it.
Focus on the written portion of the course because oral is not tested nearly as much even though it may seem more important to daily life skills.
Spanish Aa is an enjoyable class, but previous experience with the language helps.
Good intro course
It is a very fun and engaging class, but be prepared to spend a little extra time studying and preparing if you have not had a previous background in the language. Regardless, the class is still very manageable.
It's a great, low stress way to start studying Spanish.
I'd say if you really don't want to take a language, but you realize you need to, then definitely take Spanish Aa.  It's not the hardest thing in the world and there are plenty of people who do speak it well that can help.
If you actually want to learn Spanish this is a great class to take
Spanish is a nice language to learn, and is similarities to English are helpful in learning it.
Spanish is definitely something you can start out with no knowledge of and become proficient quickly. The opportunities for study abroad are amazing and the teachers are extremely interesting and helpful.
it's easy
That this class is not conducive to beginners.
Good way to get the language requirement done.
It is a good class.
Great class! A lot of fun, and after a few weeks, you can already have real basic conversations!!
This is a fun class to take.  Be prepared to memorize a lot of words and verb conjugation and to feel that the environment is unfair given the people who have already taken Spanish are allowed to take such a beginner's course.
This course really is a lot of fun, especially for someone who has never taken Spanish before.  In four months, one can go from knowing absolutely no Spanish to understanding Spanish dialogue and even being able to hold a simple Spanish conversation.  The coursework, class discussions, and even the final exam are enjoyable.  This is a great introduction to further courses in Spanish language.
This class is a great introduction to the Spanish language. It proves how easily Spanish can be learned in such a short amount of time. I took two years of Spanish in high school, and we covered everything I learned those two years in about two weeks. Plus, I learned it so much better! It required less time spent memorizing vocabulary, and I am much more familiar with the language.
I would say that the online exercises and speed of the class makes it difficult to keep up with the work and give the class the quality concentration that it deserves.
You need to know Spanish to take this class. Everyone else in the class will have taken at least two years before this and if you come in, as I did, with no knowledge of Spanish, you will look like an idiot. Also, the immersion part of the course is not very helpful.
If you haven't taken a language before it is very difficult.
Enjoyable because of the small course size and good TFs. If you have a background in spanish, it will be considerably more enjoyable, because it takes a lot of work to learn a new language.
Take this course seriously, because work can pile up if you start slacking off. Otherwise, it's a fun, efficient way to start learning the Spanish language
They lie to you when they tell you all of the students are beginner Spanish students.
Ms. Palmero makes the lessons fun and educational at the same time.  They are interactive, which makes the students want to learn more, and speak better.
Spanish Aa is enough language to feel comfortable about traveling to a Spanish speaking country without being totally lost.
It is a really comfortable, low-pressure, efficient way to learn Spanish.
great way to learn spanish
This class is extremely well put together. It will enable you to learn the language in a manner that is fun, efficient, and rewarding. I highly recommend it.
Professor Liander truly loves teaching the Spanish language!
Even though it is beginning level, you seem to need an experience in spanish classes
If you do the assignments, this class should easy and fun.
The online homework is terrible.  Other than that, the course is easy and fun.
It all depends on your instructor. I was lucky enough to have a good one.
It's a fun course, Professor San Martin is very nice and understanding. If you have a language requirement that you need to fulfill, this is a good course to take.
A good course to take to fulfill your language requirement.
This class has the potential to be very easy and very difficult depending on the time that you put into it.  Prior Spanish experience definitely helps make this class a bit easier, but overall, all have an overall comprehension of the material despite prior experience.
Do not take this course if you have no prior experience with Spanish.
I think that students who have no backgroud whatsoever in the language should be warned that many students in  the class will have had 2-3 years of Spanish already which may be frustrating at the beginning.
You learn a lot!
Spanish is a wonderful language to learn, and I am definitely coming out of this class with enough knowledge of the material to hold a decent conversation in Spanish. I am very pleased with the class overall.
Knowing some Spanish first is helpful.
My teacher was beautiful!!
The class is taught completely in Spanish and moves very quickly. Don't take unless you have prior Spanish experience.
If you have never taken Spanish I would be cautious but if you have a background then take it.
Be aware that even though this is an introductory class, many of your classmates have had some Spanish before.  Still, it's a lot of fun and you can do just fine without any background in the language.
It's  intimidating the first day when no one is allowed to speak English, but as the semester goes no you realize that you understand so much more because everything has been in Spanish.
They told me that everyone who took this course was a beginner and I would be fine. However, the majority, if not all of the people in my class, had taken at least a year of Spanish previous to this course.
It is a fast paced class, but for a language class it is definitely within the realm of possibilities for those who have struggled with learning a language in the past.
Nothing in particular--simply that it is well worth it and to be patient with Centro.
This was a well taught class, and I am excited about knowing some Spanish now!  It is easy, interesting, and I have learned a lot- the best type of class!
This is a great course to jumpstart your interest in foreign languages.
It moves very quickly if you have never taken Spanish before but the teacher is aware of that and is good at slowing down when necessary and making the material understandable
its alot of work but worth it.
Make sure to read the book because the lectures are all in Spanish and if you have not taken Spanish before, there is no way you are going to understand what is going on in class at all for the first month or two.  Also, never ever get behind because once you do, it would take a miracle to get you back on track.
This class was really fun and I learned a lot. Everyone I knew who had taken Spanish in high school was really impressed at how much we learned... 4 tenses in one semester. However, even though we learned a great deal, it didn't feel like the class moved too fast at all. You're definitely in control of how well you do though: don't just depend on section to learn, read the book because the book is really helpful and necessary.
Harvard language department is excellent, this course truly proves that.
Good class. Just try not to fall behind.
It is a great introductory course for learning the Spanish language.
If you take this class, I would whole-heartedly recommend you invest in a GOOD english-to-spanish dictionary. You can learn the form of the language all you want, but your vocabulary will suck forever, so a dictionary is a necessity.
This is a rewarding class in which if you put in a little bit of work, you can see great results. You learn a lot in a very short amount of time.
If you have a free elective and want to have fun without too much commitment, this is perfect.
This is not a difficult class where you learn a lot and see yourself improve in a very short period of time.
It's supposed to be a beginner course, but many students have already taken some high school spanish. This puts the students who are truly new to spanish at a large disadvantage. I would recommend students familiarize themselves somewhat before attempting this class.
This is a great Spanish class to sharpen your Spanish-speaking skills, or to learn new information; however, the class moves fast for beginners.
It is a class you can look forward to.
It's really hard if you haven't taken Spanish before because almost everyone has taken Spanish before.
Definitely take this if you have taken some Spanish in high school but not very much.
I think this class is a really good way to start Spanish. The beginning few weeks might be intimidating for the real beginners of Spanish but the advantage that few people have for the language will even out in the next couple of weeks.
Stay on top of the work. If you don't work hard one week you'll pay for it the next.
This course is a nice break from larger lecture classes.  The workload is reasonable, and you actually leave knowing how to speak a bit of another language.
It's a great class and I would recommend taking it. The homework online at Centro is the only downfall of the class.
As long as you pay attention in class and read the text as the course proceeds, it is a fairly easy and enjoyable course to take.
I think your quality of your experience in Spanish Aa will depend upon the quality of your instructor, which you can probably gather from your first class meeting. If your instructor is fun and friendly, the class will probably be enjoyable and the learning will be easier.
Take it and you will not regret it.
Great course!  Great job!
Be prepared, if you come in expecting a class for first time Spanish speakers this class will be very difficult. The class runs at a fast pace where many students already have extensive knowledge. There is a lack of visual aid of in class problem sets to help.
It went a bit more quickly than I expected, but if you do the online exercises and sit down with the book, it's not bad at all.
This was my favorite class.  The setting was great with a small supportive class and our instructor was very good at teaching.
Learning spanish has never been so easy, quick and interactive.
Very time consuming
Be prepared for no english. Also, remember the class continues through reading period.
It is a great introductory language course that isn't too difficult but after one semester you can speak and understand spanish enough to hold a conversation.
very enjoyable class that quickly allows you to pick up the language
This class is a great intro course to Spanish.
Have Daniel Zurbano as your TF.  He's awesome!!!
A great opportunity to learn Spanish
Be sure to stay up on new grammar, and you will enjoy it. Knowing how to speak Spanish will also be a very useful skill in life.
An easy, fun, and effective class. And Spanish is an incredibly useful language. Take it!
Sink or swim.
It is not too difficult if you already have experience in the subject.
If you get placed in a section with a good TF, this could be among the greatest classes you'll take at Harvard!!
The class was easy and effective at getting me started with Spanish.  It worked well for me this semester because I was focused on my thesis, but otherwise I might have felt like I should use my time at Harvard to take a more unique class.
Great course. Great teacher. Great way to learn some spanish.
Go to the 9am section taught by the course head.  It's early but the experience is worth is. She's a fantastic teacher.
Great beginners class!
Its a great class if you like foreign languages. Its fun and you definitely learn a lot. The only thing is is that it is four days a week which a little more than other classes but that can easily be looked passed.
I suppose it depends on your section leader, but this class moved at a pace that exceeded high school, but it wasn't too fast.
This class if fun and easy but you learn a lot of spanish at the same time. You really improve your speaking and listening skills.
I would tell students to go to Jorge's section regardless of their actual section assignment.
I would say that if you have taken a year or two of spanish already, it is an ok course, but for those who have never taken the course, I would recommend learning at least a few months worth of spanish to have a bit of a background before heading in.
I would tell future students that it is a good class but at many times can be boring and can move very quickly and easily confuse the student.
Try your best to get Lotte as a teacher.
Very fun, interesting and rewarding course!
This class is difficult but highly managable.  Having a little bit of prior knowledge would be helpful but not necessary.
Always review the material you just learned that day.
I took this class having never taken spanish before and I felt that it moved swiftly through the different grammatical structures within the language.
A lot of students in the class have already taken some Spanish or speak some Spanish, so it can be frustrating if you have never done so.
Very fun class that is easy too. You will enjoy it.
It can be a bit slow at times but is a fun class.
It's a great, painless way to start learning Spanish.
It's a great way to get a base of the Spanish language, it isn't very challenging, and it can be fun.
The class is relatively fun.  Workload is on the light side.
Great and fun class that teaches you a lot!
Spanish Aa is a great class to get a solid understanding of the Spanish language quickly.  The emphasis on speaking and listening really forces the students to learn all aspects of the language.
This class offers a good way to learn the basics of Spanish, with manageable workload.
This class is great and provides a fun and effective way of learning Spanish.
Spanish Aa with Daniel Zurbano was among my best academic experiences here.  Considering the standardized format of the course across different TFs, I imagine that the class is great with other section leaders as well.
Excellent course that can be taken at any time during an undergraduate career. Workload is manageable, class lectures are engaging, and course material is rewarding to master.
A great introduction to Spanish.  Be prepared though to have many students in class who have already taken it for a year or two.
It was a really fun and engaging class that didn't require a lot of work
This class is definitely what you make of it - the information is presented very well. If you are able to absorb it, then you will appreciate the knowledge.
spanish Aa is an easy, fun class.
It's going to be difficult at first, but if you keep practicing, then you will eventually get better. Practice is key.
It is wonderful!! Take it! You'll learn a ton.
If you have doubts about taking this class, just take it. You will not regret it. I have not met one person who dislikes this class. You will learn an incredible amount, have a lot of fun, and overall just be overjoyed with the experience.
Spanish A is a good way to learn basic speaking, reading, and writing skills.  It's an invaluable asset!
if you don't know which language to take, take this one!
I think all language classes at Harvard are great in general. Learning Spanish is definitely worth your time because it is one of the widely used "foreign" language in the United States and in many parts of the world. It would be a pity to not take advantage of the superb language programs at Harvard to enrich your languages and understanding of a different culture, something that is increasingly important in the 21st century.
Spanish Aa will get you so into pSpanish that you will end up speakkng it to your family unintentionally (trust me on that). I have never had a language class where i felt so lost and yet so motovated to work harder at the same time. At times I would have no idea what I was doing, but then I would realize and go "ohhhh"!, which is a very rewarding feeling.
Future students should definitely pick an experienced preceptor if they truly want a great class experience; otherwise, you will get by, barely.
In the beginning, this class may be challenging because it is a new language, but the instructors are kind and helpful, and if you study and practice, you should be able to understand the material.
The class is fun and very useful, I've already engaged in several conversations with fluent Spanish speakers and held my own.
Good class.
I would say that it is what you make of it. If you go in with enthusiasm then you will enjoy and receive a substantial amount of knowledge from this class. One of the best classes I have ever had the pleasure to take!
Spanish Aa was the most fun I had all semester!
You should have at least taken a year of Spanish in high school or know some Spanish to take this course.
I really enjoyed this class! I was really intimidated initally by the fast-pace of the class and by only being able to speak Spanish, but as long as you try and put real effort, you'll do fine. Winston Groman is an awesome TF, supportive, helpful, and enthusiastic.
This class is extremely enjoyable and not time demanding. Class is entertaining and taught by fantastic TF's.
I would tell future students this is an excellent introduction to Spanish.  It requires weekly preparation but you will make fast progress.
this class is a lot of fun
Favorite class I took freshman year. Definitely recommend it to anyone.
This class is much easier with previous spanish experience.
The class requires you to put a little bit of work into it constantly, but if you do that the course is very easy and a lot of fun!
This class was fantastic
The TFs of this course are especially good. They are supportive, enthusiastic, and very patient!
A very enjoyable class.
Super fun! Learn Spanish! So useful, and the professors are amazing!
This class is a great way to learn Spanish, even if you have never taken it before! You will learn a lot and be surprised by how much you can actually say by the end of the semester. Study your vocab every week and don't fall behind and you will do fine and be pleased with your results! Very fun.
Winston is a great teacher and the work load is very light.
Glenda is the best TF ever!
We move very quickly.
Solid introductory language course.
More work than you think; definitely a good way to learn the language, but you actually have to put in 20-30 minutes per night on the online activities to fully keep up (and to get a good grade).
Great class for those who have no or very limited exposure to Spanish.
If you want to start learning Spanish with little or no prior background, this is how to do it.
You will learn a lot and it isn't difficult
Make friends with the people around you because they're in the same boat as you and the best way to learn a new language is by talking in a group. Office hours are also very helpful!
It definitely is a nice intro class for anyone who has no experience in spanish. We had someone to was a substitute for most of the semester but Celeste seems really nice and she has a very interactive approach to teaching.
It is a fun class and useful.
This class was extremely hard, and unnecessarily stressful for the most basic level of Spanish.
This class is so much fun! It is a lot of work, but if you study for a bit every day it doesn't seem like much at all. The instructors are amazing and by the end you will be surprised by how much you have learned in a single semester.
This class is about the best you can do if you need to fulfill the language requirement.
Very good and fun introduction to spanish
If you are passionate about languages and want to add Spanish to your language knowledge, take this course. I am not passionate about languages, but I thought that Spanish would be objectively useful. However, in order to do well in this course you really have to be motivated to put a ton of time into it, and I just didn't have that motivation because the work is pretty tedious if you aren't passionate about languages.
I loved this course! They do an excellent job of explaining cultural context and significance of the language in addition to teaching the vocabulary and grammar. This was by far my favorite course this semester, and I'm already looking forward to Spanish Ab. David Yague Gonzalez is an amazing TF if you can get him.
Spanish Aa is so much fun, and you will genuinely learn a lot if you're committed to it.
This class is great for anyone without experience in Spanish. The teacher is very helpful and the submersion lets you dive into the language in a great environment.
Don't just try to get a good grade - try to actually learn the language.
Fun introduction to Spanish. I felt like a lot of the focus was on reading and writing and less on actual speaking, but I assume more of that comes with continuing in the Spanish sequence. This is definitely a class where you get out of it what you put in - but it's structured in a way to make the experience fun if you're willing to put in the effort!
This is a good intro Spanish course, but it does go pretty fast.
The material (mainly the grammar) gets harder as the course goes along so make sure you stay solid on the basic things you learn in the beginning.
This is an amazing class! It's really interactive and fun, and you get to learn both Spanish and about different Spanish-speaking cultures. David is a great instructor, really engaging and enthusiastic, and every day was a blast!
Take it ! It is daily work but it makes you go to class and i is fairly easy and not curved!!
This class was fun, a little challenging if you really have no background.
I would tell future students to pay attention in class when new lessons are being taught because homework and tests are based off of these lessons.
Anyone is able to do this class without knowing Spanish beforehand.
It is a lot of work but that is because it is a lot of work to learn a new language. If you are prepared to do a bit of work everyday you learn a lot.
This is a very quick paced language class. It also is a lot of work so don't take it unless you're serious about taking Spanish.
It moves very quickly.
Not very hard, fun if you like speaking.
Great class, do all the homework and review on weekends.
Spanish AA is fun and easy, especially if you have taken Spanish in the past
It's the perfect class for beginners in Spanish.
Do your homework every night.
Great all-around language class. Relatively painless. Be prepared to be treated like you're in high school again, but it's an effective structure for learning Spanish. Some of the small assignments seem pointless. But you will leave this class with a firm grasp on basic Spanish.
Excellent class! Not hard at all, though there is some level of work to be involved (though this is the case with any class here). You won't regret taking this class :)
Paying attention in class makes the course really easy.
Do every online assignment and follow the syllabus readings.
It's a great course. It's taught well and I learned a lot.
If you are taking to just fulfill the requirement, take ibo or another exotic language with like 5 students. They only meet once a week and barely do any work. I took spanish because i figured that it was more practical, but its not worth meeting four days a week and doing hours of online activities.
Take this class! If you can get Prof. Gonzalez, do it. He is so gentle, funny, caring about his students. One of my favorite classes.
It's extremely tedious and unexciting, but ultimately helpful as a beginning spanish course.
interesting and makes learning a new language fun
A great way to learn spanish. At first I didn't have confidence and was afraid to participate, but once I did I learned quickly and had fun. It's better if you know like a year or two of spanish. The kids that came in without it definitely struggled, although once they put in more work it ended up okay.
This class is a great intro to Spanish. Even if you've had a little bit of Spanish, still take this class. You will learn a lot more than in other language classes in high school, as it is taught really well. All the TFs are really helpful. The assignments can be tedious but you will learn a lot.
Try to take outside Spanish beginner course before taking this.
fun course
This provides a great foundation to move ahead con espaol.
Taking Spanish AA was probably one of the best decision I made in my freshman fall. I highly recommend it. The class was a light in my day.
Its a nice introduction into a language however some classes move fairly quickly because generally students taking this class have taken it before in high school
It's a beginning language: time-consuming, sometimes frustrating, but worthwhile if you put the time into it.
If you want to learn another language, take an intro course. Spanish is easily handled and learned in a semester or two!
If you haven't taken spanish before, this course will be difficult. If you want to do well you'll have to keep up with the readings
I would tell future students that this class is very rewarding and is well worth the work.
It's a super fun class to have in your schedule! You know exactly what to expect in terms of assignments, grading, and quizzes. The time commitment is very minimal compared to other pset classes and as long as you are putting in your hour of spanish everyday after class you will be good to go!
great teachers
Take this class! It's a lot of fun and well worth the 4 days a week
Its hard but you get used to it eventually.
If you want to learn Spanish and/or need to fulfill your language requirement, this is the class to take.  It's not too difficult, but you will find that you actually learn a lot by the end of the semester.
Study hard and try to understand the material fully so that you can learn Spanish, rather than simply learning how to pass an exam.  Araceli put a strong emphasis on understanding spanish, not just being able to translate for a test.
The class moves quickly, so be aware of that.
This course offers a lot of support for people just starting Spanish.
I learned more spanish than I ever thought I was capable, especially in a course instructed almost entirely in spanish.
It's great and try to get Jose as your teacher!
Straightforward class covering basic/foundation spanish material
Natalie is the best and if you are unsure about Spanish take this
Good class, very consistent workload, you learn quite a bit!
Don't let vocabulary be your downfall.
This class was very fun and a great way to meet friends because we talk so much in class.
Jose is a great teacher and you really learn a lot.
I think this class was great and not too challenging. Mostly, I liked learning the language.
Take the practice tests online.
You learn a surprising amount of Spanish in one semester! It is a great introduction to the basic vocabulary, grammar, verbs, and even Spanish speaking countries!
If you want to learn Spanish and you don't have a background, this is a great place to start. The TAs/TFs are really helpful and enthusiastic, and make the class a lot of fun. I did not have a great experience learning a foreign language in high school, but this reversed my previous notions.
The class is demanding yet if you invest in the material, you will finish much more versed and informed of Spanish.
It is a good class especially when you have a small one. It can be fun at times and boring at times. Overall, if you study and put some effort into it, you will do well.
Spanish Aa is a great introduction to Spanish. No previous Spanish experience is necessary to succeed in this course. I would certainly recommend this course to someone who has little to no experience in Spanish and has an interest in learning the language.
Without any prior experience in Spanish, this class will be a fair amount of work and studying outside of class. But as long as you are willing to participate and be active in class, it will be a great class.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard! Extremely well taught and very well organized to facilitate language learning!
It is a great introduction to Spanish and you will be able to have a number of conversations after completing the course.
If you're not confident in your spanish speaking abilities, definitely take this course and not AB.
Very fair course.
Its a fine class to take, but theres a pretty constant workload that cant be avoided... maybe consider a different language if you dont know any spanish going in
You don't have to know anything but it really helps because this class moves quickly
Some instructors are less willing to explain and help with questions students might have regarding grammar, vocab, etc
This class is a challenging but doable introduction to Spanish for those with no prior experience.
This course is a really good way to introduce yourself to Spanish. It is engaging and is very similar to a high school course (simple exercises for homework, occasional quizzes and short compositions).
Overall this course did not spark my interest and it failed to make me excited each day. It does serve the purpose of learning Spanish, but if you are truly a beginner it is easy to fall behind.
Good way to learn another language.
It was very difficult at first, but you'll eventually catch on.
This class is fantastic.
Low workload language class. Put 30 mins of work in after every class to do the activities, spend 1-2 hr do writing assignments and studying for quizzes. Not bad.
This course is great and very useful.
You do not need any background knowledge of the language.
Its a great intro class that teaches you so much in so little time!
The course is not difficult but you have to work for your grade.
The instructor will only speak spanish or may not be fluent in english. Meeting everyday is pretty taxing but it isn't too much homework. But there's a lot of independent learning involved such as reading the textbook and learning most of the concepts by yourself. How much your spanish improves really depends how much effort you put in the course.
Be prepared for lots of work, and see if you have any prior experience in Spanish.
This is a very good course for building basic understanding of Spanish. The work you put in with all the homeworks and quizzes is really worth it in the end and helps you get a good grasp of basic spanish.
It is a standard intro to Spanish. The class moves quickly, but not so much so that one cannot keep up with the material. The work load is relatively light and the unit quizzes aren't too difficult. Overall, an enjoyable and informative class.
easy for language credit
I was and am still really excited to learn Spanish, but after having taken the class with no prior experience, I want to make clear that it is not very easy. Be prepared from the beginning if you plan on taking this class because once you fall behind, it is hard to catch back up.
It's a good class to take. It helped to diversify my course load. I'm a science concentrator so it was nice to take a course that wasn't related to science. I had fun learning and speaking Spanish.
You'll learn a bit of spanish. Fun and a good way to fill a requirement.
Celeste is a really fun teacher who makes the subject engaging. I took this class with absolutely 0 experience. The emphasis is on speaking and listening more than anything else. It's a good basic course.
It is great for first time speakers. It moves at a comfortable yet efficient pace, and I really feel capable of using basic Spanish after only a semester.
This class is fun, but also really teaches you a good amount Spanish in a pretty short time. The work isn't that intense and the emphasis on creativity in assignments is really nice. I would definitely take it again.
I thoroughly enjoyed the class.
If you're interested in the Spanish language or culture I would definitely recommend this course! You'll have a firm grasp of basic Spanish by the end.
I loved this course! Much better than any high school language course. Spanish is very useful to learn and the way you learn it will ensure you don't forget it very easily. I came in with no prior experience and really feel I got a lot out of it.
Moreno is very understanding of students' limited knowledge of the subject, and is very enthusiastic about teaching.
Great intro to Spanish. Celeste is an awesome TF and makes the class super fun and entertaining
That it will take a lot of time commitment.
Prof. Palmero is wonderful! She's so enthusiastic and encouraging!
This is a great, low-stress way to learn a very useful and fascinating language. As long as you put in the work and come to section, the class should be pretty low stress.
Don't need a background in Spanish but it would be helpful. Celeste is an amazing teacher and always keeps everyone involved and does a great job.
I think the section you end up in will ultimately decide how your Spanish experience will be. Mrs. Moreno is amazing and you'll love her but if the other students in your class are not as enthusiastic, the class will not be as fun especially because half of the class is you guys talking to each other in Spanish.
Take this class! It's a great introduction to Spanish and Professor Moreno is FANTASTIC so I highly recommend taking the Spring-Fall sequence so you can have her as your teacher. It's engaging and interactive and makes it worth it to go to 9am classes 4 days a week. The final project and exam (which is oral) are super chill and relaxed and you really get a sense that you can hold a conversation in Spanish. The midterms are very challenging however so make sure you study hard for them! I learned a lot in this class, had a great time, and enjoyed myself. I've never enjoyed a foreign language class before but loved Spanish AA!
