I would definitely taking this class - whether it is for your concentration, secondary, or if you're just looking for an elective. Daniel is very intelligent and entertaining, and you learn a lot about poetry. I was a little afraid to take a poetry class because I didn't know anything about poetry going in, but he really helps you start from the beginning and interpret poetry on a whole new level.
Daniel is a great professor. I was reluctant to take a poetry class because I don't consider myself much of a literature buff, even less so when it is in another language. However, Daniel got me excited about poetry. If you're looking to get a secondary in Spanish and need a course at this level, I would definitely recommend it.
I would tell future students that this class is quite challenging, and that they will certainly get a lot out of it as long as they put in their end of the work.  You've got to do the readings and take the time to think about the poets and the possible motivations behind their writing!
This class requires that you do not lose track of the work - the assignments are due every day in class, though are not too difficult to complete.  This course is not a spanish course as much as it is a poetry course.
Daniel is excellent and really makes the course fun and interesting to take. It does require a lot of work if you're going to keep up with all of the readings and write thoughtful journal entries, but it is definitely enjoyable. The course really makes you appreciate poetry like never before.
Take Spanish90tv if you are interested in poetry or spanish language -- in fact, take it even if you are uncomfortable with both but would like to get closer to some of the beauty and mystery in the world.
One of the best classes I've taken so far at Harvard. Interesting material and even better class discussion.
Daniel is a master of the written word!  Take this class in order to: !) glean wisdom from his musings; and 2) deepen your knowledge of Spanish poetry/the human condition/poetry in general.  While ESP 90tv is an introductory course, you can be as rigorous with the poetry as you feel comfortable with.
Take this course!!! Daniel was amazing and even if you think you don't like poetry, you really gain a newfound appreciation for it as I did.  Best Spanish class I've taken so far at Harvard!!  There are daily 1/2 page journal entries but other than that, only a final paper!
Either be a native or be willing to put in some time to understand the readings. But the class is not so hard that it is inaccessible.
I truly enjoyed this class. The workload is difficult but reasonable. Daniel is a fantastic and engaging teacher, and he does a great job of making the material accessible.
AMAZING - take the class.
I have not had a teacher at Harvard that takes his/her course material and its presentation as seriously and personally as Daniel. He is just a phenomenal teacher, which is more than I can say for any class involving a lecture, and most others as well.
Take this class! Thinking about translation provided a unique and interesting lens to take a different look at some amazing poets. Dr. Aguirre Oteiza is a great lecturer and does a fantastic job of promoting very wide ranging discussions of poetry, art, history, and philosophy
Even if you don't typically enjoy poetry, this class furnishes a strong appreciation for it as a social and historical force. In this class, you not only analyze poems for their grammar, meter and rhyme, you analyze their importance in a historical context. A well-rounded course to say the least.
What an awesome class! This course does not inundate you with reading, leaving you free to really interact with the poems and poets we study. The broad range of poets the course covers really ensures that you have a working knowledge of the field, and the relationships between poets and their work is brought to life in a fascinating manner by Daniel, who is certainly the most engaging language teacher I have ever had the pleasure to take a course with.
This is the most fun I have ever had studying poetry. However, you can't just study poetry without also learning about the poets, about their lives, their trials. The 20th century was a very interesting and turbulent one, and produced many authors and poets who have written amazing works. We looked studied the movements, the wars, and revolutions that sparked change throughout the Western society and applied that to our readings.
This class is the best class that I have taken at Harvard. I was actually sad to miss it the two times I did when I was sick. It is engaging and enthralling and interesting. Daniel is an amazing professor and probably one of the best I've ever had. Definitely take this class!
Daniel is incredibly passionate about poetry and I thoroughly enjoyed contemplating the power of words and struggling to find precise expressions in English for what I read in Spanish.  This course helped me to think on a deeper level about the words I use, not to mention the poetry is beautiful.
By far one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, and I don't say that lightly. The class was ceaselessly engaging, and I found myself returning to themes and ideas from our meetings over and over again throughout the week.
Great poems, fun activities, and amazing discussions led by Professor Aguirre.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Daniel is awesome, and the poems we read were really interesting. This course changed my perspective on poetry and translation; it requires a lot of thought, but you get out what you put in and you don't have to spend a lot of time on it either.
You will get out of this course what you put into it. It is rigorous, but potentially fascinating and culturally grounding. The improvement or stagnation of your Spanish-speaking skills through the course of this class may vary widely depending on how you approach the material and exercises.
take this if you like poetry and talking in spanish
Take this course if you are interested in poetry, love dissecting texts, and want a small, intimate class experience. If Daniel is teaching it, definitely TAKE IT! The workload is moderate (journal entries due twice a week, with varying reading lengths depending on the selection of poems), and the atmosphere of discussion is great! You learn so much about the context of the poetry, like what was going on in history and in the poet's life. One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, and worth every second of struggle trying to decipher what a poem means. I had taken Spanish 50 and Spanish 70c, and definitely felt prepared for this course.
I had never taken a poetry class before, much less a poetry class in another language, but this turned out to be a very enjoyable, challenging and interesting course. The weekly readings and responses did take me quite a bit of time, the material wasn't all that intuitive for me and I had to do quite a bit of vocab searching, but even though that took lot of effort (and I was sometimes unsure if I'd understood a poem correctly), this was balanced by relaxed discussions in class that were very helpful in getting me to think about the poems in new ways.  The professor seems very interested in what he is teaching and makes it a comfortable and engaging learning environment.I'm very glad I chose to take it.
I would tell the students that it is at an advanced comprehension level both for spanish and poetry and you should be passionate about the material if you take it.
If you're not a big poetry person, this is a great introduction to critically reading and analyzing the genre. Don't be scared! You will improve, although the class can be a little intimidating. Intimidating because of very fluent native speakers and people who have significant experience reading, writing and analyzing poetry.
