If you are comfortable reading an entire spanish novel a week and watching its corresponding movie as well, then I would recommend the class. The material is undeniably interesting, but the class itself is not well organized, doesn't seem to have a common theme, and -- most importantly -- requires an absurd amount of dedication. I am a premed, and this class required as much time as my hardest science class this semester. I just... wouldn't take it again if I had the chance to do it over.
This class is really worth it if you put the effort in. Cifuentes is an awesome professor who is really passionate about what he's teaching.
Make sure you have time to read all the novels, watch the movies, and write 600 words each week!
Enjoy it! this course is a real pleassure, you will improve your spanish language skills, learn about spanish cinema and read selected novels.
Very interesting and fun course! This was the only one of my classes I was still in love with halfway through the semester. That being said, the readings can sometimes be quite long and difficult, and the workload varies a lot week by week. Professor Cifuentes is great though, and he and my TF were always willing to talk outside of class if I was having difficulty.
This class is a great way to read some amazing books and watch some great movies while learning about the different theories that are behind the transition between a literary text and a movie. The professor is great but only take the class if you have a strong background in reading and writing in spanish.
The movies are great, though the readings can be tediously long.  Be sure you are a strong reader in spanish before you take this class.  If you are though, it's a lot of fun - prof. cifuentes is great.
Professor CIfuentes is amazing. Take any class you can with him.
my response is in between recommend with reservations and likely to recommend.
Because this was the first year this course was offered, I would like to give a more lenient review of it. Professor Cifuentes is obviously a brilliant man, but I felt like the course as a whole lacked direction or an overarching goal. There doesn't seem to be a logical progression or build in the materials chosen for the course. As it is now, every class requires a lot of preparation in order to participate and in order to keep up with writing on the forum. I think this course needs a lot of restructuring before I would recommend it. The idea behind the course is a very interesting one.
Professor Cifuentes is absolutely brilliant and you will learn so much in this class. It is pretty intense - a substantial book and a movie each week - but I would say it's worth it. It is so interesting to hear Cifuentes's insight regarding different materials, and he is legitimately interested in and open to your opinions and interpretations - something that is rare.
It's a really good class: probably the best at this level. I didn't expect to love it, but Prof Cifuentes is a very interesting lecturer, and the topic is more interesting than I think it sounds! Be warned: at times I had the thought that his points could have been misconstrued as antifeminist by the WGS department.
This class was a great introduction to adaptations studies and Professor Cifuentes is a fantastic discussion leader. You will come away from the course with a better understanding of how texts are translated for visual presentation, as well as a knowledge of Spanish culture and history.
