This was a great course, one of the best I have taken at Harvard. The texts are rather short and very interesting. The way the class is structured will help you solidify your Spanish grammar and give you a taste of Spanish history and culture as well.
I absolutely loved this Spanish course. Daniel is a great teacher and really wants you to understand the spanish language in a whole new way. You go over everything from syntax to proper grammar to common idioms. I learned a lot in this class and was always excited to come to class.
LOVELOVELOVE. Take this class!!!!
Every student working towards a Spanish language citation should take this class!
if you want to hone your spanish language skills, this is the place to do it. Great course, assignments weren't too hard and the Prof is really great. learned a lot!
This class was great! It involves a few hours of preparation for each class (if you do the readings thoroughly), but the readings really help improve your fluency. The class has a friendly atmosphere, lots of participation and practicing spoken Spanish. The study of grammar was not structured in any way (because the point of the course is translation), but we did touch upon multiple finer grammar points in our discussions of the texts. I feel that this course really improved my Spanish, and Daniel was simply wonderful in class.
This class is fantastic. If you're looking for a class that will improve your Spanish (both written and spoken), take this one. You'll be required to speak a lot and really hone your idiomatic skills, something that's really important to communicating successfully with people in another language. Translation's a really fun and interesting subject, and this class is never boring. Daniel is a really great professor - he teaches in a way that makes it fun and inviting to learn. Take this class and you might just set yourself on a path to become a professional translator or to choose a career where you will use your Spanish.
TAKE THIS COURSE. It has been an incredible journey exploring in a diversity of written works the maddeningly chorpatelic art of translation. Daniel is absolutely phenomenal, explaining the finer points of Spanish grammar clearly while bringing the entire class to giggles - I have never learned or laughed so much. Please, please take this course if you can!
Spanish 80t was one of my favorite courses in my final semester at Harvard. Professor Aguirre is warm, extremely accessible and very responsive to student feedback. I learned a lot about the history and culture of Spain during the 20th century thanks to the diverse sampling of literature we explored from week to week. On a practical level, I refined my use of Spanish and got a better grasp on subtle linguistic and symbolic distinctions between phrases. An absolute pleasure.
This class was absolutely fantastic, especially for those who know and are good at Spanish already but want a space to practice. I learned a ton but never felt stressed out because the classes are fun and the readings are short and accessible. I also felt comforable speaking up in class and I was not afraid to make mistakes and learn from them. I have never taken a better Spanish class.
This is an awesome Spanish class! Daniel is super funny and a great teacher and there is minimal work involved (only short readings each week and three very manageable exams). Also, being able to translate something is super cool! Take this class!
Take this class!! Daniel is AWESOME. He is such a fun professor - I don't think I've ever laughed so much in a class at Harvard. He also is so enthusiastic about the class it's impossible not to be engaged. The materials are also really interesting reads (and usually they're pretty short). The class is also a helpful review if you've taken some years of Spanish and you're feeling a little shaky on some of the simpler grammatical concepts, since they get reviewed as you practice translations.
This course was fantastic! I looked forward to our class each morning as a source of energy, intellectual challenge, and learning. In particular, this class helped me to understand how to structure common expressions in Spanish, how to recognize socially meaningful associations with various words, and how to translate complex ideas into Spanish. And, Daniel was clearly very passionate about what he was teaching and seemed to care a lot about our learning.
This was one of the most practical and helpful Spanish classes I have taken my time at Harvard. The texts that we translated for the most part were really interesting, accessible, and really fun to work on in class. Definitely would recommend if you want to take your Spanish to the next level in an environment where it's mistakes and work through the material together.
Take this course!! Daniel is incredibly funny, insightful, and knowledgeable. He really cares about his students and clearly wants everyone to get a lot from the class. You have to put in a few hours of reading a week, but you gain so much. My Spanish improved a lot during the course, and because of the nature of the course (translating pieces daily), I was able to pick up on some nuances of the language and of translation that I might not have otherwise. 10/10 would recommend.
Professor Aguirre is one of the best teachers I've ever had. His approach to the study of language is exciting, in-depth, and unbelievably fun (there's no other word for it). Take any class you can with him. Take this class because the art of translation itself is worth focusing on in its own right.
it's easy, not too much work, awesome class and teacher, and interesting subject
The readings and discussions can be kind of dry/random, and it's more about the Spanish Civil War than translation (or anything else). However, Daniel is great. The assignments are very reasonable, too.
This is a really great opportunity to learn more about Spain in the context of some really great works of Spanish literature.
The historical content and the teaching are fine, but the in-class work and assignments are pretty miserable.
translation parts are great, but be prepared for some detailed corrections. grades pretty holistically it seems, so don't be scared by the first writing assignment grade. some of the readings can be not as interesting or longer, though
Please understand that you will be analyzing literary texts in Spanish, and so a firm understanding of Spanish expression will be very helpful.
This class isn't as fun as most language courses here. It was pretty boring, assignments were graded harshly, and there was no continuity in the readings or discussions. The interesting part was learning about the nuances in translating texts.
Daniel is an enthusiastic professor who brings a fascinating perspective to the course as a Spanish citizen and a translator himself. Take this course!
Have extensive attention to detail in all work that you submit.
