I would tell them that the work is certainly not easy, but that the readings are absolutely incredible and that they have changed the way in which I engaged with Spanish literature on a whole.
This is a really great Spanish course! Lectures are organized very well and section is also helpful (particularly with a smaller section). There is a worksheet due before every class which may seem frustrating but they are really helpful in the long term because they force you to do all of the readings thoroughly which helps you understand the course better and helps you be better prepared for the exams.
This class was really interesting. Daniel and Juan are both incredibly smart and really approachable. I'm not a literature person, and yet, I never felt like any of my ideas or interpretations were blatantly shut down or anything. I felt comfortable speaking in class and asking questions, which made the class really enjoyable. Most of the texts are really great, and the movies have become some of my favorites. The "informes" due before each class take time: about 1 hour (at least) + reading time, so keep that in mind, but they make it easier to work through your thoughts/interpretations and make it easier to study for exams.
A great course!  By the end, I really felt like an expert in the subject matter.
It is a really interesting class but if you aren't a native speaker it is really difficult.
Professor Aguirre and Juan are both wonderful teachers! They also seem genuinely interested in making sure that everything is clear to each student and the level of literary analysis is advanced and can be applied beyond the course itself. My Spanish reading abilities definitely improved in this course, as well as my vocabulary. The readings for this course are very complicated and can be hard to understand/take a lot of time to get through, but the lectures help provide some clarity. Additionally, the course includes historical context, which is crucial and so informative. So take this course if you are willing to put in a lot of work that comes with a big pay-off through how much you will learn.
The instructor speaks quickly, the homeworks are complex (but interesting and fun to read) Spanish stories, and many students are native speakers. If you think you know Spanish well enough to understand difficult vocab, take this course.
Great teacher and topic!
The readings are difficult, and the informes take a lot of time, but this class is engaging, especially if you aren't afraid to participate. Juan and Prof. Aguirre are both approachable and willing to help
This is a great class with interesting content and a fantastic professor.
Absolutely incredible course. I recommend any course with Professor Aguirre-Oteiza without reservations. He is a rockstar, full of energy, truly caring, absurdly good at synthesizing (something like 500 years of Spanish history in 5 minutes), and really appreciative of his students. Juan's sections will make you think more in-depth about the texts, form an opinion and understand better both Spanish society and literary works. The two weekly reports do take some time, but studying for exams after that will be a piece of cake - you will have read all texts and summarized all main points, so thank Professor Aguirre-Oteiza after midterm 1. Just take the class!!!
This class is a great opportunity to speak Spanish with other students but requires a real commitment to analyzing the material in order to succeed.
I wouldn't really recommend this class.  I found the structure (1.5 hours of discussion/slides and papers due every class) to be tedious.  The readings and films were not engaging.  Also, there were native speakers in the class, which didn't help the learning process for others.
It is a good class if you are interested in varying forms of Spanish arts--paintings, poetry, prose, etc.
It is not too stressful, but is still intellectually stimulating.
This is a great survey course - but it can be fairly tough and annoying at times. You have to go to every lecture and sometimes writing the response papers can be not so much fun. Also, I would beware if there are more than 15 people in the class.
This class is very interesting and enjoyable. The readings and films are varied and the discussions are very good.
This is a great chance to practice Spanish in a more relaxed environment with interesting topics. The regular response papers keep you from falling behind, and as they are the only written work, this class never overwhelms you.
The amount of reading seems daunting at times, but the class itself is amazing. Don't be afraid to participate!
This course has a strange dynamic in the fact that there are native speakers and also relatively intermediate/advanced speakers in Spanish. It is hard to feel confident in speaking if you are not as strong a speaker as some of the native speakers in the class.
It is an interesting class that is pretty painless.
The professor is great and the course is engaging, but only take the course if you are prepared to do the work and are pretty proficient at Spanish. Also, some of the material (readings, movies) is kind of disturbing.
