Take this class. It is fun, vibrant, eye-opening, and special.
This class was the definite highlight of my undergraduate career. Not only is the teaching staff incredibly knowledgable, receptive, and funny, the coursework and materials are fascinating, beautiful, and relevant to our present-day society. It also benefitted from having a racially, ethnically, and gender diverse classroom, which is not something that's typical at the College. It cements the need for more Latino/a Studies classes, Latino/a faculty, and an actual Latino/a Studies department at Harvard. While this course is phenomenal, it cannot be asked to do the work that an entire department would be expected to do at an institution of this caliber. TAKE THIS CLASS!
This class provided a wonderful space for community and study of Latino identities.  As a Nuyorican and Ecuadorian American, this class exposed me to different ways to reconcile being Latinx in the US, which empowered me to embrace my ethnicity and always be reflective of my identity.  Moreover, by studying an array of "performers" of latinidad we were able to consider the political implications of the term.  Lorgia is a fantastic, supportive teacher who will take the time to understand where you're at and if you have any questions/problems with your own identity.  The class is simultaneously theoretical and hands on (You get the opportunity to work with a performance artist that you study IN CLASS!).  Highly recommend this course and I hope more latinx studies classes will be offered in the future.
Take this class. It will be one of the best decisions you make in your time at Harvard. It opens your eyes to structures of power and inequality, makes you question things that you took to be "normal." and makes you appreciate things that you took for granted. People got emotional at times in this class, and that was because a lot of the academic work that we talk about in class spoke so closely to their own lives - I think we have a tendency to stigmatize this kind of learning on campus, but this course (both in the way that it's superbly organized and the way it inspires its students) shows that the political classroom is perhaps the way that we all walk out with an understanding of the world that we need as people who will be change-makers in society.  Lorgia and Rebeca are simply the best. <3
Performing Latinidad is amazing. It is not just a classroom, it is a community that is trying to break with typical conceptions of Latinidad and explore the complexities of identity for minorities within the United States. Discussions are rich because of the relevance of the topics and the personal experience that many students are able to bring into class. I loved this class, and I would take it again in a heartbeat.
This class is at the center of the movement to bring Latino Studies to Harvard and will prepare you to delve more deeply into the field and also help you critically analyze Latinidad both from a personal and academic standpoint.
the BEST class I have taken at Harvard. LATINO STUDIES is so important for our understanding of how minority studies is carried out in an institution like Harvard, and where Latinos fit in the studies of ethnic oppression. As a minority student, I felt incredibly comfortable, welcome, and engaged in this course and its material. Lorgia is a truly phenomenal professor, and treats us like family in addition to making us better students.
This class is so amazingly important to take, especially if a student of color.  On this campus, there are very few spaces in classes where students of color are able to learn about themselves from both professors of color, and from a perspective where they are not seen as objects to be analyzed.  This course was inspiring, challenging, and absolutely necessary.  It's a shame students don't have the option to take other courses like this.
This class will feed your soul.
It is a MUST take... all Harvard students should be exposed to the topics touched upon in this class.
There needs to be more classes like this. We need to learn about Latinx history and culture because it is central to expanding your worldview. This is one of the only safe spaces for students of color in an academic setting.
Profe designed an incredible intro to Latino studies course that emphasizes "performance" of identity in various contexts. The syllabus beautifully brings together representations of various Latino experiences, with some classics (Down These Mean Streets) as well as works reflecting experiences of subgroups (Afro-Latinos, Brazucas). The workload was manageable with a reasonable amount of readings and films to watch, 3 short papers, a final research paper, and a performance art piece designed in collaboration with Josefina Baez. Overall, the course was an incredible interactive experience, and profe provided the necessary historical and social context to make the literary and visual sources meaningful. But I would warn students that the survey flavor can be frustrating if you really want to delve deeper into a particular Latino issue, but without more classes in Latino studies at Harvard, it is understandable that this course must be broad enough to cover all of the requisite Latino studies bases.
This course gives really fascinating, personal, and at times heartbreaking perspectives on the experience of Latin@s within the United States, and the world. Really changes perspectives on things. The students and the prof definitely make the class. At times I wished the course would harken back to the readings and theories we were studying/how those applied to the larger framework we were working with. Some assignments also felt like busywork. Overall, though, great course!
TAKE THIS COURSE. The professor is amazing and so are the topics. I wish there were more classes like this at Harvard where the professor cared so much about making personal connection to her/his students.
If you want to feel empowered take this course! It was great to study authors and thinkers that are excluded from the classroom taking front and center. They too have academic and literary value. We had very candid conversations about race and identity in the latino community. All the readings - like every single one was SO INTERESTING and the readings don't drown you. There aren't that many. What I found hard were the papers. They make you think critically about what we are learning. You feel your brain expand- definitely allot a good amount of time to thinking about what you are going to write and then actually writing it. We did an art project with Josefina Baez which was so fun and EMPOWERING my voice was all over the campus. That was so memorable- she came in and taught us about her performance art and we read her work and then we did it around campus. If you want to learn about your identity as a Latino or just educate yourself about all the other Americans living in the country and their experience take this class.
I would tell them this is basically an Intro to Latino Studies class and that's an excellent class. This was one of my first times really engaging in and learning about different facets of Latinidad. I think this is very useful and important class that everyone should take. On top of that, Lorgia is an amazing teacher and so down to earth.
I really enjoyed this class!  I have a particular preference for interdisciplinary courses that still engage substantially with important topics, so I loved being able to look at cultural issues of identity and belonging through the lenses of art, performance, history, literature, documentaries, and media in dialogue with critical texts. I leaned a lot about the presence of smaller, often-ignored minority groups within the grouping of "Latino" like Cuban Jews, Brazilians, etc.Also, this is the first time I've been in a class where every student has been so excited to speak and share their thoughts, to the credit of both the students and the professor (for facilitating great discussions).  I learned a lot from my peers about their own experiences/thoughts on Latino identity, performance--all of which made the course all the more powerful.Regardless of what political/social background you come from, this class will really challenge you to think about "the other side(s)"--Professor Garcia-Pena is very good at playing the devil's advocate.  While she does have her own perspectives, so many of the issues we look at are so complex (particularly educational rights of immigrants, challenges to ethnic studies, issues with current Latino representation in media/film, if "Latino" is even a good term) that there's no one good answer/solution; she does a really good job with facilitating discussion and making it a great space to share our thoughts.
I think this is a great class that finally reflects the realities of being Latino in America. For the first time we get to engage with Latino literature instead of it being pushed to the margins. The critical lens with which we engaged helped reveal new modes of thinking and understanding these social realities. I recommend you take the class for English credit so that you are better able to engage with the sources instead of being bogged down with the language and can focus on ideas. WE NEED MORE COURSES LIKE THIS!
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  Its interdisciplinary approach provides a space for fascinating and relevant conversations each class.  You can learn a lot (about history, literature, history, sociology) in an engaging setting without overloading yourself with work.  The class is also an opportunity to study Latino literature/history that exists almost nowhere else academically on campus.  And Professor Garcia-Pea is absolutely incredible.  Take this class!
This was an incredible class, and I would definitely recommend taking it!
This was an amazing and eye-opening course, regardless if you identify as Latino or not. The interdisciplinary nature of instruction and the syllabus made it accessible to people from all academic backgrounds. A must take if you are at all interested in how identity is both historically, socially and culturally embedded.
This class is excellent for those interested in Latino Studies in particular and Ethnic Studies in general. If you are curious about the relationship between literature, art, critical theory, and social justice, this is definitely a course for you.
