A great Spanish class because it finally breaks from the mold of all 'regular' Spanish classes.  AKA no more grammar checks and all the mundane aspects of the advanced language classes.  Really allows you to delve into the topic while improving your Spanish skill.
This course provides a wide variety perspectives on the US-Mexico border and the border's culture. More importantly, it pushed me to consider the meanings of borders in general and how they affect people on both sides.
This is a very important course, one that should be taught every year.  An advanced Spanish class allows the opportunity to engage with issues relating to the U.S.- Mexico border utilizing texts in Spanish as well as English. Considering the state of immigration in this country, the devastating impact of neoliberal policies and U.S. intervention in Latin America, and other issues., we need more classes that raise awareness about these realities.  Based on the high enrollment from this class, there seems to be a high student interest as well.
Great professor and TF!
I initially signed up for it to fill a concentration requirement and wound up thinking it was one of the most interesting classes I have taken in college. Unlike some language classes, this class doesn't just improve your spoken or written Spanish but also really does cover fascinating subject matter that would be worth learning about in Spanish or English.
very easy, though people in the class did not have the level of spanish one would expect in a discussion class
This course is great overall, and especially relevant to students who have personal connections to the US-Mexico border.
TAKE IT. I loved this course. It's a lot of reading (mostly all spanish -- so you need to be comfortable in the language), but the material is really fascinating. Also, professor Delgado is amazing.
The course serves as a great introduction to advanced Spanish classes, with manageable readings and lax response papers that allow the student to understand and develop a workable knowledge of border culture and literature.
Pretty chill class, just make sure you participate. A lot of the readings are in English, so it's not bad, though doing a response paper every week gets pretty annoying.
This was one of my favorite courses I have taken so far at Harvard - Sergio Delgado is brilliant, engaging, and easy to talk to. My understanding of the US-Mexico border- and of borders in general - has completely changed. The readings were chosen carefully and built upon one another - though many are in English, and I wish I had more exposure to academic writing in Spanish. However, due to the subject matter of the course, this made sense. I feel confident that I can take on high-level Spanish courses and writing more extensive essays in the future.
Professor Delgado is a great instructor. You'll learn a lot from him in terms of how to use art and literature as a way of understanding the world. But if your goal is to improve your Spanish reading and speaking skills, this may not be the best class for you.
This is one of the best and most critically engaging Spanish language courses at Harvard that I've taken; you will learn so much.
Take it! You'll learn a lot.
Sergio is an incredible teacher. He is smart and really good at asking thought-provoking questions. The class was discussion-based so although there was a range of Spanish levels, if you're looking for the chance to just talk about interesting topics related to Latino migration between the US and Mexico (and there are a lot of them!), this is the class for you. It was great to get comfortable speaking aloud in class. Sergio was also totally receptive of people just coming to office hours and chatting about this or that. Also, because he always graded the short reading responses we had due every week with thorough feedback, I felt like not only my speaking improved over the semester, but also my writing. However, it's hard to improve a lot in a foreign language with only 3 hours a week. That said, I love speaking spanish, so the class was what I was looking for after a summer spent in Chile.
I took this because someone said on the Q guide "take this-- you won't regret it." I want to pass that on.
This course is AMAZING! Sergio is one of the best professors I've had in my four years at Harvard and this course is so much fun. Definitely take it!!! Not too much work and it's so worth it!
This class is an excellent seminar class with really great readings. Sergio is brilliant and says a lot of really interesting yet subtle commentaries about the readings, so make sure you pay attention.
This is an awesome course, it covers an incredibly important topic in a very unique and meaningful way and really transformed the way I understand border issues. Many of the readings are in English (though we discuss and write about them in Spanish) which was a bit strange at first but makes sense considering the nature of the course material. Workload is very reasonable, the response papers each week are not too time consuming and reading amount is just right, though definitely it is best to have time to carefully read everything since the readings are all very important and meaningful. The content covered is quite varied and had potential to feel disjointed, but I felt it was joined together very effectively. Profesor Delgado is amazing, he is very relaxed and class is really fun and interesting.
This class is very interesting if you want to learn more about the culture at the border. You will be introduced to many interesting materials in a variety of forms about this topic. The workload isn't too bad. You will have readings to do each week and a one-page response paper. I wouldn't recommend this class if you don't feel comfortable talking a lot or have bad listening comprehension because the entirety of the class is spent discussing the readings as a group and everyone has to do a presentation at some point during the semester. As long as you feel comfortable with that, I would definitely recommend the class.
I hope they make this a more rigorous class, but it's interesting if you want an easy Spanish class.
often dull; response papers could be grueling
This class is absolutely amazing. It pushes you outside of your comfort zone by calling you to question the institutions you've grown up in and which run the society in which we live. It causes you to question how you perceive space, time, identity and how you know what you know. The class not only improves your Spanish, but improves your understanding of the complicated and nuanced fluxing and flowing structures of power that permeate between and within socially established borders.
You have to speak in class. Make sure to do all the readings/viewings because they were really well thought out, and they really make you think.
EXCELLENT course.  Prof Sergio is great, interesting, engaging, funny. I really loved this course.  If you're sick of lit courses, this is the course for you- you will look at a broad range of medias to think about the US/Mexican border- poetry, performance and installation art and music.
Brilliant professor. The material is a solid mix of fun, depressing, and eye-opening.
Sergio is a fantastic professor! This class addresses more than just the physical border itself - we spent a lot of time discussing psychological borders/ injustice/ discrimination. I learned a lot and can say that my worldview expanded because of this class. It is very flexible in terms of work/ assignments, too. highly recommend.
Take this class if you get the chance! Sergio is brilliant and wonderful and he will change the way you see the world.
This is a fantastic class because the material is really interesting. I was really annoyed with the lack of structure of the class and ran into some issues with the required material not being posted on the iSite early enough to complete things by stringent deadlines, but the class is definitely worth it. So many of the RLL classes are just so...poetry related....and it was awesome to take a class on such an important subject that just happened to be in Spanish (and from the Spanish-speakers perspective, also). I'd take it again.
Although the professor seemed a bit too busy for the course, I still really enjoyed the readings, documentaries, and movies we watched. As someone getting a citation in Spanish, this had been my second favorite Spanish course at Harvard. I'd highly recommend this course to anyone interested in the material, but you MUST be comfortable conversing in Spanish about the material--class participation is a huge percentage of the grade and we talk about complex topics. Great class!
Great course on the border! It focuses on art and culture rather than strictly politics and that was a very nice perspective. Delgado is also a great professor who is very interested in his students! He really encourages student participation and gives very good feedback on assignments. If you take this course take advantage of office hours! Having a good grasp of the language is important. I wouldn't recommend taking this class just to practice Spanish. You should take it because of the content!
Definitely take this course, lo recomiendo altamente!! Although it is a lot of reading (mostly in spanish) the material is incredibly fascinating and you want to do all the reading. The course pushes you to think beyond the definition of "fronteras" - extending from the most literal definition to reflect on one's own innermost borders as  an individual. Professor Delgado is a great professor - really approachable and facilitates engaging discussions during class!
