I did not learn much or get anything out of this class.  It was unfocused and boring.
The work load is pretty light during the semester, but be ready for a larger work-load over reading period dedicated to a final paper AND a final project/presentation.
Material was very interesting, class was logistically mediocre.
I liked the class but it can be a bit unclear at times. Take it if you have a genuine interest in learning Nahuatl and a lot of patience.
Take this class if you are in the Latin American Studies track of RLL, especially if you have taken/are taking SP 71a.  It complements the course well, and enhances the understanding of the cultural context of Latin America.
This course is interesting but very specific. If you don't think reading Aztec pictographic texts like maps, lineages, and foundational histories would be interesting then maybe this course isn't for you. Also, several alphabetical texts are in Spanish, so you should be able to read Spanish pretty proficiently. I definitely liked learning Nahuatl more than the history and culture aspect of the course, but it's 50/50, so be aware that you'll be learning both. Professor Rabasa is great, very knowledgable, and easy to talk to. However, sometimes his lectures go off on tangents and the topic he is discussing becomes hard to follow.
Nahuatl is so much fun to learn, and Rabasa creates a great teamwork atmosphere. It is very difficult at first, so it is important to do the readings so that in class you are a little more on board. Do the readings to be prepared for culture days, you'll enjoy the discussions a lot more.
This is a great class! Nahuatl is so much fun to learn and the language component by far was the best part of my semester! And I dont even speak/study languages other than English.
Professor Rabasa is an amazingly stimulating teacher in whatever he teaches. He is able to almost transfer his passion for things into you. Take anything he offers.
Anybody interested in questions of performance, cultural negotiations, and indigenous languages and religions before and during the Spanish Conquest, should definitely take this course.
While the materials can be somewhat intimidating, there is no reason to stress out about this class. Some of the concepts are pretty complex, since you are dealing with something completely different than the Western mindset, but if you put effort into it you will be happy with your grade at the end of the semester.
Prof Rabasa is brilliant, patient, engaging and humorous. He makes really tough topics seem manageable
If you need to fulfill your foreign lit requirement for Hist & Lit, I recommend this class because you can take it in English though the material you are working with is in Nahuatl. It is also a fascinating topic, and learning to decode the Nahuatl is very fun. If you are interested in indigenous and ancient cultures of the Americas I would also recommend this class. Professor Rabasa is super nice and very laid back, but sometimes the classes are a little scattered and it is easy to zone out during culture lectures. Shop it, see what you think.
The course is very useful to someone with a preliminary interest in Nahuatl culture and the Spanish colonization of Mexico.
