This is an amazing course. Shaun is an awesome instructor and the material is fascinating. If you can take this course and you can get in, you should totally do it.
This was definitely my favorite class at Harvard! Highly recommend taking if you are interested in the cutting edge of neuroscience and its intersection with technology
This class is phenomenal.  Shaun is so personable and a great teacher!  I highly recommend this class.  One of the best I've taken.
Best class I've taken here. Could not recommend more. Shaun is phenomenal, the material is great, and you'll be more excited about neuroscience than you've ever been before. You'll also become a bit of a crazy mad scientist :)
Wow, what a fantastic class! It's a gem, do take it if you have the chance. The topics are really fascinating and connected to current events and advances in technology. You'll learn about all sorts of topics in neuroscience that you never even knew existed.
Shaun is an incredible teacher, is super fun, and teaches about amazing concepts. You learn a great deal about current neuroscience, and just listening to Shaun ramble about NIH grants and the like is as informative as any paper you'll read.
The papers can be very difficult to understand, and you may have to read them a couple of times. However, it feels amazing when it all clicks, and you finally can write your response paper. Dr. Patel is an amazing instructor, and wants to help his students do well in the class.
Great tutorial. Shaun is a great tutorial leader.
This class is a fun and easy way to engage with a wide breadth of neurobiology subject matter.
Read the papers very in depth, you will get more out of the course
If you have the opportunity, take this course! It is absolutely fantastic. Shaun is a talented researcher and even better teacher. This class is really about learning the material and broadening our horizons about the breadth of research happening in the field. It was refreshing to take a course that didn't focus on the grade, but instead focused on knowledge and our exposure to the next front of neuroscience. The readings are really interesting and Shaun makes the literature accessible. Also, there is an underlying theme to the course that you don't even realize until the second half -- each paper and lecture builds upon the previous one to put together, like the pieces of a puzzle, a provocative idea about neuroscience and the possibilities of the field. If I could take this course again and again, I would! Take full advantage of Shaun and his expertise in neurobiology -- ask him questions after class, or take him to a faculty tea. He is really quite interesting and knows quite a bit about research, but also other fields. Also, definitely read every single paper, even if to skim, and come with questions. Shaun is really good at answering difficult questions about neuro papers that would take hours to find the answers to online. Enjoy the final presentation, it is a dare-I-say-it fun experience that is a culmination of the readings we've done and you can really put your own spin on it. Ask, ask, ask questions of Shaun about the newest neuro research or complicated neuro concepts, and take this course! Recommend with the highest enthusiasm for anyone interested in diving into single-neuron and invasive neurobiology topics with a supportive and engaging teacher.
A fantastic course focusing on the functional sides of neuroscience with an emphasis on electrophysiology and understanding the brain at a high resolution. Take this for a great way to fulfill the tutorial component and learn about exciting advances in the field today.
This class is a great way to learn about new research in the field of neurobiology and talk about the implications of this research. The work load is very light, and Shaun is great at facilitating discussion and raising very interesting points about the papers that I wouldn't have thought of. There is also a component of the course involving Python where you learn how to spike sort, which is a common practice that comes up in a lot of the papers in the class.
