I liked getting to know the teacher and students well enough to be able to discuss scientific concepts in a more casual setting. It would have been better if there were more students interested in going into research, but the class community was great!
The tutorials in general are a great way to get used to reading primary lit, which is a very relevant skill in the sciences. I also enjoyed going in depth into a topic I don't think I would have learned about otherwise.
if you're not interested in learning about touch, this course is probably too specific for you, but Amanda is a really understanding and knowledgeable section leader and the assignments are fair to say the least
Amanda is Amazing! It might sound more difficult and time consuming than the other tutorials at first (I think in our first class she said "If I see you put a lot of effort into the PSET, you'll probably get an 8/10"), but the class ended up being a gem! You do have weekly psets but they really help you to understand the papers better and get familiar with the jargon. Take this tutorial! I loved it so much, that as the year went on, I began to wish I joined a tactile sensation lab.
Love the class. Great intro into a difficult Neuro course.
This course is very engaging and you come away with a lot of knowledge about the touch system and how it relates to other pathways - which is a lot more complicated than it sounds! Amanda does an excellent job of facilitating discussions, and break out groups to brainstorm potential neural connections are a lot of fun. Would highly recommend!
Emily and Amanda create the perfect learning environment to explore touch and everything that comes along with it. Honestly, but the end of the course, you will feel so good because you will have started to master an area of neurobiology that really is taken for granted by most people. From lab field trips, to the community that E & A create, this tutorial really did make me a more confident and better critical thinker and scientist.
Touch is a modality that often gets cursory coverage in other Neuro classes, and I did not realize how significant the findings in this field were until I took this class.  I found that in and of itself, sensory motor processing plays an important role in everyday life in functionalities that I never really thought much of.  Additionally, we learned that there exists a high degree of overlap among all modalities and touch is one that acts a major contributor to our ability to perceive the world around us.  So, if you are interested in learning about a division of neurobiology that you will likely only encounter tangentially in other courses here at Harvard, strongly consider taking this course!
I definitely recommend this tutorial! Amanda and Emily are incredibly helpful, and you'll get a lot of feedback along the way on all of your assignments. Touch is also a really cool topic - I didn't know much about it before coming into this class, but there are a lot of really interesting things that tie into it. Take this class if you can!
this course is phenomenal. emily and amanda are great instructors and really care about their students. you learn so much about touch, and basically leave the course with a comprehensive understanding of the field. You also learn so much about how touch interacts with other modalities. this class makes you a better thinker and scientist
This course is fascinating. Sometimes, it is easy to get bogged down by papers and methodology, but the instructors and my fellow peers were always open to clarifying methods and concepts in discussion.
This tutorial is amazing! I loved the class, Emily and Amanda are great, and the topic is fascinating. At the end of the year you will be amazed by how much you learned, both about touch and about how to read/write/understand/think about science. I would really recommend this to anyone looking for a great tutorial. It isn't a tutorial you can ignore the work for, but it also is a manageable workload and so worth it in the end.
