Take it. Richard is great! You learn a lot about India and cinema ... and capitalism.
This is a great way to learn about the Bollywood/Indian film industry and Indian cultures.  It's also incredibly interesting and stimulating to talk about social and political issues in India through the lens of films.  I highly recommend this class to anyone with an interest in any of these things!
Take this class! Richard's course offers an in-depth look in to the importance of the Bollywood industry. Whilst an interest in Bollywood films is necessary, the course covers so much more than just films. The course really challenges and encourages you to think about Indian culture, globalisation and capitalism more widely. The classes are always well-taught and interesting, and Richard always ensures that you are reaching your full potential through questions on presentations, to suggestions about extra reading and one-on-one chats about papers. You don't need any prior experience with Bollywood films- just an interest to watch and analyse them!
Take it - it's fun, but also really a great experience. It challenges you to contextualize a popular form of entertainment in culture and history.
If you would like an insight on the south asian movie industry, how the directors think and how certain movies are created and made and overall how history of a country is reflected in movies.
This class is very enjoyable for people who are interested in Hindi cinema. The class discussions are very chill, and the films are very entertaining to watch.  Although the readings are not required, you still need to do some of the readings each week in order to write a weekly response paper (max. of 2 pages).  The major requirement of the semester is the final paper (10-15 pages).  I would recommend starting that as soon as possible, since there are not a lot of guidelines/directions on what to do for the final paper.  It may save you a lot of stress at the end of the semester to have already figured out what your topic/sources are.
This is one of my favorite courses I've ever taken at Harvard.
You do not watch the films in class time and the films can be long! This means you have to dedicate 3hrs of your weekend to watching the film (the movies are long!)
This is a great film course. I learned a lot about watching and critiquing film. It also helped me in my individual concentration perspective because I was able to use methods from Sociology and apply them to themes in the weekly responses. The final paper is very rewarding to write, and Richard ji was a great support in the whole process. The films are great, and it's good to just talk about them in class while coming to understand Indian culture better.
This is a great class, and really teaches you how to look at cultural artifacts like movies and other texts and mine them for really meaningful socio-cultural-political information.
If you are looking for a Hindi-Urdu citation, do this course and do it for language credit!  You learn quite a bit in 1-on-1 sections and discussions purely in Hindi.
Richard ji is an absolutely wonderful professor. The class was so interesting, engaging, and entertaining. A great elective.
This class is wonderful and provides an excellent exploration of Bollywood and the historical context and themes of various films. Watching the films can take some time, but other than that the workload is quite fair. The weeks can get a bit repetitive, but the films are great and discussions enlightening so overall the class is highly recommended. It certainly helps one think about films - and culture and various topics in general - from a variety of angles.
great course! very low workload and it's amazing to watch these movies and talk about how they represent the India of the time period in which the movies were filmed.  I managed to learn a lot about India and its history, which i'm really happy about.  This is def. the class to take if you are interested in indian culture, because bollywood is a major part of it.
This is a true gem at Harvard.  I had so much fun with this class.  We were forced to sit down and watch a Bollywood movie a week.  The work outside of this was minimal and the discussion was very enriching to the movie.  I learned so much about Bollywood and its place in both India and outside, which I found to be very valuable.
I absolutely love this course and would recommend everyone to take. I looked forward to class every single week.
My favorite class at Harvard - Richard is a great teacher, the movies are enjoyable (though very very long), and I actively looked forward to class discussion every week. I learned a surprising amount about Indian Culture, history, and (perhaps most surprisingly) Marxist theory in this class.
Richard is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard. The content, discussion and topics are great and very nuanced. Definitely take this course if you can.
This is a great introduction to Hindi cinema and Bollywood.  However, I would advise you to be patient in this class because the South Asians in this class often dominate the discussion, especially because the discussion is about Indian history a lot of the times (which is definitely relevant in discussing the evolution of film) and those students simply have a lot of background in Indian history.  If you really want to contribute strongly, you might want to do some internet searches about the relevant events that were going on that may have influenced that film and sort of push your way into the discussion!  The Professor will not expect this of you because it's not required of you for the class, but it will definitely enrich your learning in the class, and I'm more than sure that Professor Delacy would appreciate it.
This is an incredible class to take to gain exposure to the world of "Bollywood". You have the chance to watch truly entertaining movies as coursework and learn about the Bollywood film industry (and all of its intersections with socioeconomic and cultural fabric of India). This is one of those classes that you won't forget after leaving college because it exposed you to an entirely new world in a nuanced way.
Richard ji is an amazing professor. Class discussions are great just make sure you watch the movies. We can tell when you don't watch the movie.
Fantastic class with an enthusiastic and caring professor. Richard ji is amazing and this course serves as an excuse to watch some classic Bollywood (?) movies. You will also learn a lot - the class provided me with a much more nuanced understanding of the film industry and its influence on society which was really eye-opening.
This class is absolutely amazing, and I encourage anyone who is thinking about taking it to do it! You will enjoy watching the movies and critically thinking about them in your responses each week. The movies are a bit long, but class discussions are really interesting to learn about Indian history and culture. The final essay is also completely open-ended, so I really enjoyed writing it.Sometimes it may feel like Richard is imparting his views on you and the class should take it as fact, but I encourage everyone who takes this to ask Richard why and to challenge his views. That was the most rewarding part of the course for me.
Amazing class. If you grew up watching Bollywood  (or you just have an interest in film) definitely take this course. It's engaging, it changes the way you think about film, you get personal feedback from the professor, and it's just a fun class. Definitely worth considering.
Very chill class and you get to watch a ton of great movies!
Richard ji is an amazing professor for this course. He provides one-on-one feedback for the essays and meets every week with students to discuss the readings. He goes out of his way to meet with students and discuss ideas for the final paper. This course is so fun and very interesting! I would highly recommend it to anyone, especially students without any exposure to Bollywood or Indian culture.
