If you're interested in the lives of the working class in India, I'd definitely take this class. The class is manageable and you will learn quite a bit from Shankar--he's quite relaxed and seems to know what he's talking about. The weekly responses are no big deals and the readings are not too dense. The films and skype calls we had also made for interesting learning. I'd probably go to more office hours if I could and engage with Shankar's book that is highlighted throughout the course even more. Keep your notes organized and do ask for feedback if you need.
This class is NOT an overview of India. Do not take it if you want to learn about the issues facing India generally. It involves more social theory than you might think. Still was an interesting class!
This a great course to learn about capitalism and cosmology in India. The South Asian Department tends to only offer a few courses related to India each year, so this is definitely one of the classes you cant miss. Shankar is an amazing professor!
This course is a kind of a roller coaster ride about India and the people in its cities. We learn extensively about urban living, urban poverty, migrations, and the intimate experiences of urban residents in India. The course sensitizes us to humane ways of looking at India's poverty, and also helps us appreciate the efforts of those tying to both document experiences and help make conditions better.
There are few courses at Harvard that have the ability to make you critically think about some of the deepest problems complicating the world outside of the American borders - and this course is definitely one of them. Professor Ramaswami's thoughtfulness in terms of his syllabus and his guiding questions added depth to my otherwise surface-level and barebone understanding of capitalism and the poor in India. If you're looking to take a course that will teach you to navigate various sources of evidence or commentary about the state of India's capitalistic economy, this one is definitely it.  If you're looking to hear amazingly detailed and thoughtout analysis then Professor Ramaswami is definitely someone you need to know. Although I personally never got a chance to go to his office hours during the semester (only during the end), he is highly accessible and giving with his time to students because he is truly invested in our understanding of the material. What I found particularly intriguing was how quickly the class felt comfortable - a weekly 2 hour meeting became a cohort of classmates that were very open in building off of each other's comments and also constructively critiquing other comments - and I think that's because of the atmosphere that Professor Ramaswami really helped create. If I could take one class at Harvard again and again, this would probably be it because I think the relevance (for those interested) coupled with how much it teaches you is a great backdrop to have as one considers how they might want to engage in the dialogue of developing India. Take the class if you ever get the chance - you won't regret it!
Shankar selected a fantastic array of texts about the poor and working class in India, and was constantly challenging us to think critically about modern notions of development and the strivings/constraints represented in the texts. Very enjoyable class, it's a shame Shankar will not be here to teach it again next year.
Shankar is a phenomenal lecturer!! Definitely take this course. He does such a good job of making everyone in the class, South Asian or not, very comfortable with the material, which at times can be challenging in terms of language. This course really challenges you to think, and reflect critically upon required readings that build upon each other as the semester progresses. I have nothing but great things to say about this class.
To all students who plan to work in India - you must take this course. This course should be mandatory for all colleges in India.
South Asian Studies 196, when taught under Professor Shankar Ramaswami, was an amazing course! The class discussions were thrilling, the readings very interesting, and the whole tied together in a very talented manner. That said, I feel this course more than any other I've taken in Harvard depended heavily on the personal characteristics of the teacher. I wouldn't feel I'm well prepared to give a recommendation regarding taking a course with the same content and title if taught by somebody else.
This class is really great! Shankar is a wonderful professor who's great at leading discussions. You can tell that he knows a lot and is passionate. He also genuinely wants to get to know all of his students. He encouraged everyone to meet with him and set up extra office hours before our final paper was due.The classwork itself is what you make of it. You can come to class unprepared and not do any of the readings, and you'll still be fine. So, it's very self-driven. But, I think it's a better experience if you do all the readings. I wish I had.There's only one paper due at the end of the semester. There are reading responses due every other week, but they're one page and you just give your thoughts on the readings. They're graded holistically and not a big deal.
This course was absolutely fantastic in every aspect. Completely engaging and enjoyable.
Shankar is one of the most caring scholars, and this class genuinely gives great exposure to issues facing poor and working class people in modern India. The readings are super interesting and ones that no other course could have exposed me to. This was genuinely one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard!
