Make sure you leave enough time to watch the films- some of them are really long and you don't want to leave it till Sunday when the response is due. This is a really great selection of films. You learn a lot by just watching them, and even more by discussing them with Shankar and the class.
Shankar's feedback on your reading responses can sometimes be frustrating, but he is a very smart man, and you'll learn much from him if you're willing to push through such frustration. Seek him out in office hours--he can do much to help you refine your writing and/or critical-thinking skills.
More work than one would think for a "movie class" but at hte same time far more eye opening academic experience. Very worthwhile.
This is an amazing course that offers a glimpse into Indian cinematic history as well as into the inner workings of Indian cities and how social class/caste affects the people who live in them. As a non-Indian, I was a bit intimidated by this course, particularly since none of the films were in English (though they all have subtitles!) but it was accessible and I feel like I now have a better understanding of Indian culture and the challenges facing Indians today. Take it! It is so so so worthwhile!
Great class. Shankar is amazing and so willing to help students learn. He is readily accessible outside of class and puts in a lot of effort into each and every class meeting. Definitely take this class! You'll learn a lot.
This is a great class!  While Professor Ramaswami can be a bit long winded at times, he has profound insights on Indian Cinema, and offers up fantastic interpretations of each week's films.  I would definitely take this class because the workload is very manageable and it was my favorite class of the semester!
Take this if you have a serious interet in India and in film. Just because the course 'readings' are primarily movies doesn't mean that it will be a light time committment; watching three-hour films in a foreign language, while taking notes and researching allusions/allegories (to write a reflection afterwards) is a lengthy process.That being said, you will have a good time. The films and readings are superbly selected and quite compelling - and Prof Ramaswami knows nearly everything there is to know about them. Discussions are engaging and very thought-provoking; class time will pass by faster than you want it to! If you are seriously interested in SAS, this course is definitely worth taking.
