This course is demanding, but if you want to learn to read, write and eventually speak Burmese and you are willing to meet its challenges, the class will set you up for future success.
I've had a great experience with Bahasa Indonesia. I recommend it to anyone who has spent time or has  a strong interest in South Asia
The class is unique because some students were at different places, but if you can get used to that you have a lot to benefit from the diversity of knowledge in the room.
I have loved my Burmese language coursework. This course is so wonderful and I would recommend it to anyone interested in Burma studies or Burmese language. However, the language is difficult and so I would only recommend it to students dedicated to the subject matter.
This class provides a great continuation to learning Bahasa Indonesia! It definitely requires some prior knowledge, but the class environment is highly interactive and enjoyable.
This course is a really easy way to start learning a language with emerging importance in the world. The workload is incredibly light. It's a great fifth class.
A great course to take if you have spent time in South Asia or are interested in working there on day.
Indonesian language tutorial is a great opportunity to learn one of the most spoken languages in the world in an intimate setting, where you don't have to feel uncomfortable or like the class is leaving you behind.
Practice using the language as much as possible. You get lots of opportunities to do this in class.
Take Burmese! Charlie Carstens is one of the nicest, most helpful teachers I've ever had. I really enjoyed learning from him.
Considering the lack of textbook for this class and the fact that it was taught for the first time this semester, I commend Veronika for her efforts in teaching; she was always very understanding. There are improvements to be made in terms of the consistency and content of this course, but I am very confident that Veronika will make these changes over time. She has a lot of potential as a teacher.
This is a great introduction to Indonesian language, with a focus on grammar and building vocabulary.
The class size was small so the instructor paid more attention to our individual progress, adjusting the materials used and the syllabus accordingly. The instructor was also creative in using different methods to spur us to talk in the language.
I would suggest this course to any students interested in learning Burmese. As with any beginner language, the material is hard, but the class is fun and engaging and allows students to learn without being overly stressed about it. The quizzes and assignments help greatly in terms of mastering the material. By the end of the semester, I felt so accomplished because of all that I had learned.
Take this class. Burmese is offered only at one or two other places in the US, and the chance to learn from someone as experienced and helpful as Charlie is rare! There are plenty of reasons to learn the language when Burma is changing so rapidly, but beyond that, the language is beautiful in itself, and you won't kick yourself for putting a small seminar in among all those anonymous lecture classes and sections.
Go for it - my best decision at Harvard!
Take it! It's wonderful.
I would strongly encourage students interested in learning Tamil to take courses with instructor Jonathan Ripley as his teaching is excellent and he creates a very comfortable classroom environment conductive to learning.
Veronika is leaving, so I don't know what it will be like in the future, but bahasa Indonesia is a really interesting and cool language. Indonesia is the world's fourth most populous country and the largest Muslim nation in the world, it's a very diverse and pretty awesome place, learning about it is always a good idea plus then you have a reason to go there.
This class is easy and interesting if you want to learn Indonesian
The class is a bit unpredictable and is very relaxed, but fosters an unusually productive academic environment.
Indonesian is a great language and really fun (and relatively easy) to learn!
If you are interested in Indonesia and willing to understand the dynamics of not only the language but also the culture, you will find this to be a great course.
I think learning Burmese with Charlie is an incredible experience. He is very patient and very good at explaining things. He is able to cover two years worth of material in one year without overwhelming students. Really recommend this.
I would recommend this course for anyone wanting to learn Burmese! Although an obscure language, I learned so much in this course about Burma, history, and culture. It was the perfect environment to begin studying the language and it has instilled within me a deep desire to continue to pursue Burmese.
I hadn't taken a language course in years and forgot how much time is required to memorize vocabulary. While the instructor was accommodating, I would not recommend this challenging of a language course on top of graduate studies.
This has been the only experience I have had at Harvard that has lived up to my expectations upon application and has been justifiable relative to the school's reputation. The class, led by Veronika, is facilitated by Patil and the SAS dept, which, in my experience, has not only been the best, but often the only, department at Harvard that has any interest in educating undergraduates.
This course is an opportunity to improve your Bengali. If you have no exposure to the language in advance, you will probably need to be pretty diligent in working through the book outside of class (Teach Yourself Bengali by William Radice). We had two one-hour classes per week. In one, we would simply practice Bengali speaking. In the other, we would present Bengali writing we had done outside of class to Mrs. De and she would correct it (and we would continue practice writing while other students reviewed with her). Sometimes we would do lessons on the board on the alphabet, verb conjugations, or particular vocabulary depending on what students were interested in.
I highly recommend this language tutorial for anyone interested in learning Burmese language. Charlie is an excellent teacher and the personalization of the course is a huge benefit. He is also the perfect person to learn from because he knows the difficulties and trials of learning the language himself. He creates a very supportive and motivating learning environment!
Favorite class.
This class will give you a second level understanding of communication in Indonesian, with a sophisticated level of cultural understanding and a generally better understanding of language and syntax as a whole.
What an awesome class! With Reza teaching, you will learn an incredible amount about Indonesian language and culture through examining a wide (and really interesting!) variety of materialfrom feature films to songs to poems written by national heroes. And importantly, this class also makes learning the language entertaining and enjoyable!
