Kim Sunsaengnim is amazing. She makes sure that everyone understands the material and is very enthusiastic about the class. She is also very nice to meet outside of class and is very understanding.
I honestly enjoyed this class so much! Kim SSN is a delightful teacher, and she makes it so easy and fun to participate in class. The work is never too much, and I definitely feel that my Korean skills have improved as a result.
This is such a fun class. If you've taken Korean, I very much recommend you continue and take this class as well. You get to learn more about your own identity and interesting aspects of Korean culture that you don't really get from the intro year. Kim teacher is an excellent teacher and makes every section very fun.
great class and amazing teacher
THIS IS THE BEST CLASS EVER!! I literally left every class feeling a little bit happier. Kim ssn is just the best. She is also very fair and lenient yet so on top of things. You learn so many interesting tidbits about Korean culture too. It really cleans up your life bc it's a little bit every day and doesn't feel like much but by the end you learn a ton.
It was an absolute joy to learn from Professor Kim. She connected the Korean language well with the lifestyle of many students with her notable humor. Great class! Highly recommend.
Kim SSN is amazing and super funny and very down to earth! Honestly my favorite teacher at Harvard. She is one of the reasons why I continued taking Korean. The class is also very structured and what is expected of you is very clear. You will also get lots of individual feedback and Kim SSN also makes class time very enjoyable even though the grammar can get a bit tedious at times.
I loved the discussions we had in class about not only the korean language, but also the culture and what it means to be a korean american here at Harvard.
Great class for heritage speakers! If you want to improve your Korean (particularly in terms of grammar and writing), it's a great course. You get a lot of practice and feedback, so your Korean really improves a lot. Kim SSN is also supper supportive and understanding. Also, Korean class is a lot more relaxing and fun because of the smaller nature of the class. You really get to know everyone in the class which makes going to class feel more like just speaking with friends than going to listen to a lecture or drilling grammar points. The exams and assignments are also very straightforward and Kim SSN has very clear expectations, so the overall course isn't stressful at all as long as you do the work.
Yes. I would recommend other graduate students interested in learning or improving their Korean! The teacher and course was extremely flexible and accommodating, yet also rigorous and challenging.
