I had a great time in this class. It helped me strengthen the weaknesses I had in Korean and helped me become more comfortable talking and writing to others in Korean. The only reservation I have is that having class five days a week can get a bit tiresome.
This is a great class if you want to solidify your language skills, and definitely sets you up to become more proficient.
You learn a lot of Korean. Professor Hisun is super supportive and a great teacher. The class is great for heritage speakers! The best classes are where you learn a lot but don't have to be too stressed out over the class, and this is one of those types of classes! If you have any wish to improve your Korean, I would say just take it. There's no reason not to. Fun and you learn a lot!
Fairly reasonable course load. Lessons are fun. Overall similar to what one would expect.
Would recommend ONLY to those with a great, great deal of prior experience with Korean.
The course is made for native speakers, for whom it will be quite easy. Not being a native speaker is a handicap for this course.
Heeyoung Jung is an amazing professor, you can really tell how much effort and heart she puts into teaching this class.
Jung Seonsangnim is the kindest, best teacher, and this course will really improve your Korean. By the end, since this class meets several times a week, the atmosphere is great and people feel pretty close. It's a truly fun way to learn Korean, and the best time I've had studying a language. Having this class that feels immediately applicable and not burdensome balances coursework nicely.
This is a great class! Professor Jung is very nice and understanding if you're busy and need to push some work back. It wasn't too difficult, but I still learned a lot of Korean.
This is the best language class I have ever taken! The Korean teacher is patient, kind and knowledgeable. The classes were conducted in an interesting and fun way, combined with games, videos, and Korean food!
Such a fun class! I had no formal background in Korean, only from spending a summer there and watching korean dramas, and it was definitely manageable. Prof. Jeong is a great teacher and the class is what keeps me waking up before 10am every day. Take it if you're genuinely interested in Korean language/culture, and are willing to put in time for homework + vocab quizzes.
This is a phenomenal course. As a Korean-American who never formally learned Korean, my speaking ability has improved leaps and bounds from just one semester. I highly recommend this course for anyone who is looking to improve your Korean ability through a pretty rigorous, but fun course.
This is a fun class that opens you up to a new culture and teaches you a language! However you should be willing to put in some work to memorize words and practice pronunciation. Also the workbook can take up a bit of time. Overall it is completely worth it though.
If you want to learn Korean with a class that has good background knowledge and foundation in the language with the sweetest teacher, then this is the perfect class for you!!
Not for people with absolutely no previous exposure to Korean.
If you have a basic background knowledge of Korean (the alphabet, some cultural expressions/ references, basic spoken Korean) then this class is for you!! TAKE THIS CLASS!!The professor (Jung Heeyeong) is absolutely amazing and you learn so much from this class. Any language class you take will require a lot of work, so obviously this course has a lot of work. However, Professor Jung provides extensive feedback on everything, which is extremely helpful. The work is all really fair and really helps you learn and solidify what you learn in class. Plus, classes are always fun and are something to look forward to! Professor Jung is the kindest and most effective language teacher I have ever had, and the individual sessions you get to have with her are really great for developing your own spoken Korean ability.Personally, I knew spoken Korean and the Korean alphabet coming into this course because my grandparents do not speak English. However, it was very basic Korean and I did not know how to read or write. Though it's only been one semester, I have already developed my spoken Korean so much, and I am able to write and read sufficiently. If you are debating whether or not to take this class, take it. You WILL not regret it! I originally wanted to take only a year of a language so I could fulfill the foreign language requirement that Harvard has. However, after this semester I now want to earn a Korean citation. That's how much I loved this course.
It's a great class for Koreans who grew up speaking English!
Great class. Awesome professor. You will learn a lot of Korean.
Great language course to take; you learn a lot in a short period of time.
It's great if you are looking to learn Korean in a short amount of time and if you have some background already.
A great class that really improved my Korean skills.
good class.
fast paced but great for those serious about learning korean
For all students who can speak Korean at a different degree, this class is good in sharpening and improving the skills necessary to become more fluent.
You should have some basic Korean language experience.  If your parents aren't Korean this course will be hard.
best class ever!!!!! i am soooo proud of my improvement!!
If you want to learn Korean and you're good enough to take the accelerated course, then by all means take it
This class is very rewarding, especially if you grew up speaking the language but never knew how to read or write, as many students start out in this class in that role. However, you'll be surprised to see how much progress you make and by the end of the semester, you will undoubtedly be reading and writing. However, I do warn you that (unless the time and frequency of meeting changes), this class is rigorous in that you must wake up early every day.
This is an amazing class and you get exactly what you take of it. This is one class you should be taking advantage of so learn a lot and really improve your Korean.
It is a relatively easy class if you have had some previous Korean experience. It starts off much easier, but speeds up very quickly.
This course is meant for people with previous experience in korean.  The class is doable for those with very little experience but are at a disadvantage to those students who come from backgrounds where they spoke korean at home.
Bxa is a great course that delves into all of the right foundations of the Korean language. It is perfectly tailored for those who have listened to Korean all of their lives, but never were able to speak it properly. The class's format is very well structured and classes become something you want to go to rather than a chore. Note that there's no shortcut to assignments and they do take a good amount of time. However, they are far from difficult and do well in reinforcing the material learned in class.
Fantastic course. It's a lot of fun and you learn a lot
AMAZING CLASS!! TAKE IT!!!! As long as you can understand and speak a little Korean take it. It is easily the most fun class I've had at Harvard, and the teacher takes you out for lunch after the final.
This class truly benefits from its small class size and accelerated pace.
Korean Bxa moves quickly
