Korean 130b is significantly harder than Korean 130a and future students should be aware (beware) of this.
This is a very fun class--the instructors provide an enjoyable atmosphere for learning about the Korean language and culture.
If you want to improve your Korean writing skills, this class really helps you do that. You also learn more about Korean culture and learn higher level vocabulary.
An excellent base in more advanced Korean, particularly in vocabulary.
The professor and section leader are absolutely wonderful and work very hard, but what happens in section is not conducive to language learning. Practice away from books needs to take place, but didn't.
Be able to listen to Korean!
Professor Kim is awesome. I would recommend this class with 100% confidence.
Very fun, interactive.
The most fun class I've taken at Harvard.
This will be a very rewarding class if you work very hard.
This was my favorite class this semester! The debates were on really engaging subjects such as online dating, necessity of marriage, college degrees, etc. They really helped listening and speaking skills. Jung ssn is so nice, accessible, and works so so hard to teach you well and give you great feedback. Also, the people in this class are my favorite. I literally want to be friends with them forever. Put the time in to get to know your class! It makes learning and studying SO much more fun.
Jung SSN is the best teacher ever. You should definitely take this class.
This class is awesome- hands down one of my favorite classes so far at Harvard. The teacher's wonderful, funny, kind, and so incredibly willing to help her students and willing to take time out of her schedule to answer questions and make sure her students are doing well in the class. I've made so many good friends in this class and it's just a lot of fun. Also, it was awesome learning Korean in a foreign language context which I had never done before.
This is the most fun class I have ever taken at Harvard! You will also improve your Korean speaking ability significantly.
Korean is a course that you will get out of what you put in. The baseline workload for this class is very light, almost no homework besides writing journals. Feedback that you get is great and detailed and Jung SSN really took the time to follow up individually. The best part of this course though was getting to know your fellow classmates. If you make the effort you can create a really tight community and it makes the class so much more fun.
Was a really fun tight knit class
Take it! ..... but of course, not without taking 130a (and hopefully 120ab) first!
Professor Kim is really great!
Korean 130b is fantastic! Kim SSN is an amazing instructor, and the class was  always fun and interesting.
Korean 130 is a great class where you will befriend nearly everyone. You really learn a ton of vocabulary, but it never seems excessive and is really well done. You will find yourself just naturally using more sophisticated Korean. I would wholeheartedly recommend this class.
Regardless of which section you are in, you will be challenged to push yourself in all aspects of Korean -- reading, speaking, and writing.
rewarding class but requires hard work if you want to take your korean to the next level.
Kim SSN is the best teacher in the Korean Language Department, so definitely take it if she is teaching it. She will make it fun, but you will also learn so much in one semester. 130 is the level where some native Koreans or almost fluent Koreans start taking Korean language classes, so depending of the background of the students, the class may be harder. If everyone is not fluent at Korean, then the class will be slightly easier and you will move more slowly through the lessons. It is a big jump from the 120 level.
The Korean program here is a great opportunity to get to know not only Korean grammar, but also gives a fun introduction to Korean culture and society.
If you've taken up to Korean 120 or are already pretty good at Korean and want to take a Korean class, take this!!!! Jung SSN is the BEST and learning Korean under her is an amazing experience. Be ready to put in the time for lots of vocab, reading, and writing, but also be ready to reap the benefits of a very productive semester and a lot of learning for Korean.
TAKE THIS COURSE! The Korean language department at Harvard is wonderful.
Korean is so much fun!
Great class! Well-structured and you learn a lot. No surprises and very straight forward. Definitely take if you want to continue learning Korean.
Best class ever. Jung teacher cares about your learning and has a lot of awesome and interesting material. She's kind and compassionate and knows how to teach.
The Korean department at Harvard is truly wonderful -- all the instructors are super sweet and dedicated to helping their students succeed. Also, I would recommend this class in particular because it's not too time-intensive but I still felt that I learned a lot, especially about Korean culture and history, and was able to speak about these topics in Korean.
This course was a fun way to improve my Korean skills. In particular, I feel that my writing skills improved a lot this semester. The lesson topics were interesting and Jeong SSN is very nice and supportive. Students had a very wide range of speaking abilities in the class, but I generally wasn't penalized for not being able to speak at a heritage level, which I appreciated.
Standard language class, but it was great! Really walked out with a new sense of comfortability around Korean as a language. Teachers are both amazing.
I think it's gotten high reviews in the past because of the old professor. Jung SSN hasn't been very helpful this year, and I think a lot of us had problems with her teaching methods. It's entirely memorization at this level of Korean, which is frustrating.
The work can be tedious, but its manageable and you can get a lot out of the class.
Take this course if you want to continue learning Korean.  Definitely improved quite a bit this past semester in terms of speaking which Korean 130b seems to stress a bit more.
