Awesome professor willing to help who is super accessible.
This class was easy to do well in without doing much work at all, but if you slacked off completely (like i did) it was very easy for your grade to drop. Barely any assignments, but the vocab quizzes were brutal because they were on 60 words in one sitting instead of 60 words over two non-consecutive days like first year had. If you don't put in extra work/have a good memory, then it's really easy to forget vocab. However, Professor Lee was great and non-condescending, which made messing up sometimes totally okay.
Lee Joungmok sunsaengnim is nice, a true master of the Korean language, and a great teacher. Great class.
Korean 120 is a fun class and your Korean will improve significantly! It is a significant jump from Bb. Lee SSN is very supportive and a good teacher. Assignments are fair in this class although they can be difficult.
I have nothing special to say to future students.
Korean 120 is a good extension from elementary Korean. You learn more grammar structures and vocabulary. I think, overall, it's a solid course, and if you're looking to improve your Korean skills, you might as well take it. Overall, a positive experience.
If you are genuinely interested in learning Korean, whether it's for a language requirement, for a citation, or just for fun, you are likely to find this class enjoyable and informative.
Mi-Hyun Kim is one of the kindest, wisest teachers I have ever met. She really tries to give attention to every student and is someone everyone can connect to.
If you truly want to learn Korean, this course is great. Although many things seem repetitive, there is no other way to learn a language. Plus, the instructors work very hard to make the course helpful to the students and learning Korean with classmates is always fun.
The Korean department is phenomenal! Keep taking Korean! :D
Such a fun class to take. Be prepared for a lot of work--there were definitely a couple times during the semester where I felt overwhelmed. But when you get to the end of the course you realize how much progress you've made, and that makes everything worth it. In the end, any amount of time you spend learning a language is never time wasted. Korean 120a was a really fun course, and, while it was hard, it was really enjoyable.
This is the BEST language class I've taken. It's a lot work, but also a lot of fun and you will definitely see improvements in your language skills throughout the term.
At first I was really turned off to the idea of having a language class everyday, but this class turned out to my favorite class of the semester. It was the most fun and the one I most looked forward to each day.
Good course.  Meets every day: MWF for class "lecture" and TTh for Drill sections.  Lecture is when you learn most of the material, and sections are where you actually practice the material.  There are "daily phrases" that everyone in the class will do 3-4 of in which you present to the class a Korean phrase (proverb, slang, figure of speech).  There is a partner Korean culture project that you present to the class.  There are occasional "interviews" with Kim SSN to practice speaking Korean. I found these a lot of fun.  There is homework due pretty much every day: either worksheets due in sections or listening comprehension or writing assignments due on MWFs, but don't let that deter you.  They're not all that bad.  Do be warned, however, that sections are in Vanserg, which is a bit away.
This is an outstanding language program! Take it if you want a fun, small class and you want to learn Korean language really well.
So much fun...If you want to learn Korean and have fun, here's your class.
Kim SSN and Joo SSN are amazing, and you will definitely enjoy the class even though there seems to be a lot of assignments and quizzes. The course is very manageable. Definitely take it if you are interested in continuing to learn Korean.
I would highly recommend this class! The professor is one of the best I have had and this class really does a good job of improving your overall korean skills. It is also one of my favorite classes at Harvard. It is small and you get to know everyone in your class and it is also very fun!
Take it! It's an awesome class! Awesome people, awesome teachers, awesome fun!
Korean 120a is an awesome course! Kim ssn and Joo ssn made the material fun to learn. Kim ssn's lectures were challenging and rewarding, and Joo ssn's sections were effective and fun as well. The Korean language department at Harvard is amazing!
The Korean language program at Harvard is great, with friendly teaching staff and a welcoming community. Even though you'll learn a lot of Korean in a short amount of time, the workload is pretty manageable. Class is usually laid-back and fun.
