If you like Korean food and Korean songs, this class is for you, but make sure Kim Mi-Hyun is the head instructor.
engaging and interactive way for one to learn basic Korean
It's fun. Kind of repetitive at times, but learning vocabulary and drill is usually like that. Great if you want to learn Korean...
Take Korean!  The Korean program at Harvard is wonderful, and too few people know about this great class!  There is tons of individual attention, and you will learn very quickly through the many different types of materials in class.  It is a very fast-paced, engaging class and more people should take advantage of such a great program!
Korean Ba/Bb is perfect for students interested in Korean culture and learning the Korean language. With some of Harvard's nicest professors, this  class, though challenging, is a great way to develop conversational abilities in Korean, while learning more about the culture as a whole.
Great East Asian language course. No background necessary but you will need to put in time to review and drill.
Korean Bb is definitely way more fun and laughters than Ba because you actually start to understand and become more familiar with the ability to listen and understand! Also, lots of clips from Korean drams ; )
So fun!! The students in the class had gotten really close by the end of the year, which made lectures and section that much more fun. The first semester was difficult conceptually just because you're getting a grasp of a totally new language, but the second semester will be really rewarding if you put in the time during Ba.
Take it! Language classes in general are so fun, and the Korean department is small and amazing.
Take this class before it is discovered! It is so much fun, so small, and taught so well that it is only a matter of time before everyone will want to take it. It will give you the rare chance to develop a truly close relationship with your classmates and professors and learn an interesting and enjoyable language.
This is a wonderful language course! Very fun and the teaching staffs are amazing!
You will really learn a lot within a semester and you will have fun doing it.
Korean Bb is a really fun class! Expect to do a lot of projects though, and it helps to do the homework assignments little by little than all at once.
If you have any interest in Korean culture, particularly pop culture, you WILL enjoy this class.
If you're interested in Korean culture, this class is a must! You'll get to hang out with others that have similar interests and do a lot of fun things while learning the Korean language. What have you got to lose? A lot, if you don't take this class!
Study! Bb takes it up a notch from Ba. Drill section is helpful but sometimes regular lectures felt like they went too fast and didn't really teach much.
You should only take korean if you truly want to learn the language.
The material could be taught very quickly, simply, and reinforced very efficiently. However, the course is designed to make for a lot of busy work and not-so-engaging activities. More teaching and less "independent discovery" would be better, maybe.
The lectures were not too helpful, but the practice obtained in drill section really helped me learn the material in the course. Often there is too much homework, and it gets to a point where the homework becomes more of a time sink than a tool to help you learn.
Korean Bb basically took a lot of the fun out of Korean.  The material is a bit harder than Korean Ba, but the quality of teaching is not adequate enough to keep the material interesting.  It's a lot of busy work that doesn't add any value to the learning of the language.  You can read the textbook, do the exercise in the textbook, and go to drill section and be completely fine for the tests.  Lectures are pretty useless because the they're so poorly taught and pretty unengaging.  You have to learn a few Chinese characters in this class, but the professor doesn't even write them correctly half the time. Students only go to lecture because they have to.  Oh ssn does not inspire this class to learn Korean nor makes this class interesting at all.  Reading the textbook and going to section would be just as useful and much less time consuming than going to lecture three times a week and going to section.Section however actually adds value to the class.  Ha ssn explains everything so clearly and quickly too.  She is patient, caring, and works so hard to teach us students.  We all really appreciate her efforts to teach beginners every single day.  Section is so much more enjoyable and valuable than lecture.
This class was fantastic. I learned so much and can actually have a conversation in Korean now.
Be prepared for a lot of homework and daily classes, but you will learn a lot of Korean!
KOREAN! YAY!
Be ready to work hard, but you will be rewarded for it.
I would highly recommend taking this class. For those who are interested in Korean culture, this class is a nice opportunity to further explore your interests, or for those who are curious about different languages, I think that this Korean course is a nice introduction into Asian languages.
Take it if you want to learn Korean and have a fun class!
It's a difficult course in that you have so much homework and material to cover, especially in the latter half of the course towards finals.
The most enjoyable language course I have taken
Korean Bb is great!  However, it is significantly more difficult than Ba so be prepared to put more time and effort into it.
This is a great course and those who took Korean Ba should definitely continue with this! By the end of the semester, everyone in the class knows each other and the Korean department community is very tight, with occasional get-togethers with the other Korean classes.
It's a fun class! If you are into Korean, I feel that you should definitely try it out.I can't really gauge how difficult it was because I am Korean, but I can say that if you put in the work, it works out.Plus our drill instructor and professor are cool.
I would only take first year Korean if you plan on taking further years of Korean.  The material taught in the first two semesters ALONE is not extremely useful.  However, it was an enjoyable experience and not very time-consuming or overly difficult.
If you have interest in taking a East Asian Language course, I would highly recommend this class. Only thing is there will be new teachers, and Oh SSN and Jung SSN really made the course enjoyable. However, regardless of the teacher, I'm sure this class will be just as amazing.
It's the only option to learn Korean at Harvard, but the quality of teaching pales in comparison to the Chinese and Japanese departments. After finishing Korean Bb, I don't feel like I can hold even a basic conversation with someone in Korean, which obviously should be one of the objectives of the course. More emphasis needs to be placed on speaking in the course. In addition, the instructors spoke to us in English most of the time, which makes it hard to work on listening comprehension.
It is religious but you leaky become conversational in the language due to the  shear number of grammar lessons and vocab.ulary.
Korean is an amazing language. However, Professor Oh and Professor Jeong are both retiring so I am not quite sure how the class will be next year.
You make lasting friends and join a family by taking Korean Ba/Bb.  It is so much fun and definitely worth it.
Oh SSN won't be around anymore, so it's unclear if this course will be the same amount of insane fun, but the course materials are really great and useful.
Take the class! This introductory series makes learning Korean seem fun and in the end it mostly is. Some of the busy work the class has people doing can be frustrating and stressful. At times even to the detriment of actually learning Korean. However, the support from the professor and TF is unparalleled. Unfortunately, both are leaving after this semester and I don't know what Ba will be like without them. They are the warmest, funniest, and most supportive human beings to ever teach a language course at Harvard.
It may be a little bit disorganized, but the classmates that it attracts as well as the professors are worth it. You'll learn a lot about the language as well as the culture!
This class was a great continuation of Ba. The grammar was more complex and the class in general took up more time this semester, but Jeong and Oh SSN as usual were very supportive and I really feel like my Korean improved significantly.
It's a good course that will teach you the basics of Elementary Korean. I felt like I learned a lot.
The course moves pretty quickly, but the instructors are very good about responding to questions and requests for meetings. As long as you put some effort in, you won't have any trouble and will learn Korean!
The teachers are amazing and you really bond with the other students.
For a student who has a familiarity with other East Asian languages (i.e. Chinese or Japanese), I would both encourage and dissuade them from taking this course. As it is rather slow paced, one will have a very good grasp on grammar and vocabulary by the end of a year. However, it may become frustrating exactly because it is quite slow, and it often feels as if more progress could be made over the course of a semester. The professors are incredibly kind and well-meaning, but lecture sections frequently drag and could use better organization.
If you took Korean Ba, expect more of the same, which hopefully is a good thing!
The professor is really nice and so is the TF. Korean is a great language course because they teach it really well/effectively. They don't make it harder than it needs to be like some other languages do. You end up learning a lot of Korean pretty quickly, I'm really happy with the class. Take it!
If you've taken Ba and want to continue improving your Korean then definitely do so! You learn to say much more than in Ba and all of the constructions are extremely useful. Some of the vocab seems less so, but when it comes to language, there are always certain things you wish you could say over others, right?
The class is extremely enjoyable! The instructors are really nice and always ready to help you.
I thought Korean BA was easier, but I definitely continued to really enjoy Korean and feel like I improved tremendously.
If you took Korean Ba, you should have a pretty good idea of what to expect. The only new thing is an introduction to Chinese characters, which was a tiny part of the course, though my least favorite. Otherwise, the new sentence constructions and vocabulary are marginally more difficult than in Ba, but still a fun and relatively easy break from psets.
It's a lot of fun, pretty easy, all you do is memorize a few vocab/grammar patterns every week. Had to take for foreign language requirement but maybe just maybe it was fun/easy enough that I may consider doing higher level korean..
This is such a great and fun course! Great way to learn Korean better. The language department at Harvard is so supportive and strong!
It has been so exciting to watch myself grow in this class. I have developed language skills that I can now use, and I am so excited to continuing taking Korean in the future! I have also been able to meet so many interesting and kind friends in this class - it is a great way for freshmen to meet upper-classmen. The Korean teachers are very accessible and want you to succeed!
This class is well-paced and fosters language "absorption"-- it just feels so natural to learn new vocabulary and patterns with Kim and Ahn's style of teaching.
This is a great class if you are interested in Korean even in the slightest. The course is taught really well. Even though there isn't much work load, you'll learn a lot of Korean by the end. They also host a lot of cultural events outside of class that were lots of fun.
This is a great way to fulfill your language requirement. I took spanish originally and found this so much better!! Its not the default language, so people are generally way more engaged in the material, and the teachers are great and very enthusiastic. I had an awesome time in this class and felt really connected with the classmates. They go out of their way to arrange lots of cool stuff for students, like get togethers with food, etc. Would highly recommend:)
This class is fun and easy if you stay on top of vocabulary.
If you have any interest in taking Korean, I highly recommend the Harvard program. The intro class is very welcoming and supportive, but we still learned a significant amount. Meeting every day really helps drill material, and the assignments are varied and interesting. There's a lot of opportunity to practice and use the material.
Take the course! The teaching staff are so wonderful. Though classes are five times a week, you really come out of the course with a solid foundation of speaking, writing and reading skills in Korean. The course itself isn't difficult at all and the grading is designed so that you could do well.
Korean is a beautiful and beautifully intuitive language, and the teachers are amazing.
The teachers are very helpful and encouraging.
I would tell future students to be ready for a rigorous course. Although it is an introduction to Korean a lot is learned in a short period of time. The course is enjoyable but it is not a language class to take for just a simple GPA booster.
Great class and a lot of fun overall. Even though I took this class solely to fill the requirements, the teachers and classmates made it a lot of fun. You will make friends in this class.
This class is low-key a lot of work but it is definitely worth it! The best class I have taken at Harvard thus far.
One of my favourite classes I've taken at Harvard so far. The teaching staff is amazing, you learn a lot and have fun whilst doing it. Cannot recommend this class enough!
lots of hw and memorization, easy A though because the professors are kind and understanding. as long as you show up for class on time everyday and participate and at least try hard then they will give you a good grade
Korean was my favorite class this year! I made incredible friends through the course, while learning a foreign language.
The teachers are fantastic, Korean is super fun to learn, and you really pick up grammar structures that are the most useful in conversation.
Literally the best part of my day was going to Korean BB. Both professors are so kind and so enthusiastic -- you'll learn a lot.
This class is very fun! All intro language classes are hard work, but this one is definitely worth it.
I literally loved this class so much. It was my favorite class by far, and the teachers were absolutely amazing. Highly recommended.
