The class is well organized and well structured. For those concerned with taking this class after 120b, it is a huge jump from the 120 level to the 130 level. However, Jung SSN takes this into account and you are not evaluated directly against your peersyou're competing with yourself and the level of improvement that you see in your own ability. She's a great instructor and really tries to facilitate discussion. It can be frustrating to see how far ahead some other people are (especially those who are linguistically fluent but just need some grammar and/or writing practice), but Jung SSN does her best to make sure that everyone's involved.
Keep up with all the work.
Definitely take this if you want to continue learning Korean.  It's a bigger step up in difficulty than Korean bx to 120, but you'll learn a lot and class is still pretty fun everyday.
This class is run backwards. You're given all these vocabulary words from the textbook, and then told that only some of them will be on the vocab quizzes. But what are in all the readings? Those other words. And what is on the lesson quiz? Those other words and also other grammatical expressions not even mentioned in class! Listening expectations are also ridiculous.
How much you get from the class depends on how much effort you put into it. You can do the bare minimum and easily get an A, but if you put in more effort in the journal writing (eg writing on more difficult issues using the newly learned grammar patterns and vocabulary), making use of the weekly 30-minute individual sessions to work on whichever aspect you wish to improve on, you will be able to take a lot more from the class. Professor is also very willing to support and help if you wish to make the extra effort!
This course is much more difficult than Korean 120, so just be prepared to make much more effort in studying and preparing for this class.
Be prepared to study almost every day!
THIS IS A GREAT CLASS. If you've already made it through years one and two of Korean, take this again because A) you get Jung SSN who is amazing amazing amazing and B) you might as well because you've learned a lot already and in 130 you'll learn so much. 130 is where you begin to practice lots of reading, writing, speaking, and debating, and striving to get closer to native proficiency.
The class material is a huge step up from Korean 120, but because of that, the learning environment is less encouraging and helpful for second-language-learners.
Korean is so much fun!
Korean is great and very under-appreciated! Continue taking Korean languages classes because they keep getting smaller and you learn more and more each year.
Try to keep up with the diary entry schedule. It was by far the most time-consuming part.
Even students who grew up speaking Korean at home struggled with this class. The coursework is reasonable for a language class, but the lesson quizzes are significantly harder than previous levels of Korean. If you want to be challenged, this is the class for you. Also, the content of the class itself focused heavily on traditional Korean culture, so if you are interested in modern Korean culture, you may have a hard time paying attention in class... that is, if you understand what is going on in class in the first place.
How easy you will find this course will depend on your experience level coming in, but Jung SSN is very understanding and accommodating of all ability levels, which makes for a relatively stress-free class experience. Definitely recommend to anyone looking to improve their Korean.
Korean is the best language in the world. SSN Jung is awesome and you'll love Korean 130a!
I liked this class.  The preceptor was great and really nice.  This class was my least worrisome class and I felt like the assignments were reasonable and helped me to improve my Korean.
If Jung SSN is teaching it, run for the hills. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. The jump between 120 and 130 was ridiculous. The tests are impossibly long and hard. We learned nothing. Literally, we spent several weeks on a story that talked about sorghum stalks, thatched roof houses, and reed flowers. Yeah, I don't know what those are in English, either.
Ms. Kim is one of the best professors that I've ever had.
The teacher is great!
keep pace with the course; don't think about cramming
Kim Seonsengnim is great! She facilitates discussions so easily and is a very fun individual. She genuinely cares for her students and she is always willing to help.
The class is really interesting. You do not only learn the language, but  also learn the culture by preparing presentations and reading related materials.
Be prepared to work hard and still do poorly if you are not a native speaker.  Class is fun, though.
Be prepared to learn a lot, but, especially if you are not a native speaker, to put in three times as much work as native/"heritage" speakers as this course moves very quickly.
This class is great!  It is fun and is a great way to practice and further learn Korean.  You will get ample practice through homework, essays, quizzes, as well as presentations.
If you're enthusiastic about learning Korean, this class will really strengthen your writing skills and advance your knowledge of your Korean.
If you love learning the Korean language, this is an excellent course.  If you are looking for an easy elective, your time is probably spent elsewhere, as it requires dedication to avoid frustration.
