This is one of my favorite class at Harvard. The teachers are wonderful and every class is well-prepared and well facilitated. The assignments are designed in such a way that your learn Korean very comprehensively and improve your language skills in terms of vocabulary, reading, writing, listening, pronunciation, and even idioms and expression and learning about Korean culture.
Fighting! Aja aja
Korean 120b is amazing! Kim ssn is an amazing teacher. I learned so much in this class, and I looked forward to class every day.
Kim Mi-Hyun SSN is awesome! Take advantage of her as a teacher before she might have to leave Harvard. Your language skills will definitely improve after taking this class.
The Harvard Korean department is excellent; very warm and inviting, a nice community. And taking a Korean language class is a great way to learn a lot about Korean language and culture and to meet awesome people!
the teachers teach extremely well, and it is a very fun class. you learn material quickly and fairly thoroughly for the pace.
It's awesome. Kim SSN and Joo SSN as so professional and wonderful.
Take it and any other course offered by the Korean Language Program! Not only will you learn the language well, but you will also make lasting friendships both with your classmates and the teaching staff as well. There have been days in which Korean here at Harvard is the one thing that has kept me happy and sane, so I especially recommend courses like this one to students who are in large, nasty, cutthroat lecture classes, such as Life Sciences 1b or Chemistry 27.
Definitely take the course because it's extremely enjoyable and you'll learn a lot, but be prepared to suffer with the heavy workload.
This class is a must-take. Amazingly fun, awesome professors, and effective curriculum. The workload is generally very good, but be careful about getting behind. The tests are fair, and you definitely learn. You won't regret taking it.
Take this class before more people find out how great it is!
It's a fun class, but a lot of that depends on your interests and your fellow classmates. It's a lot of work, but it is rewarding. There are many moments where you may feel frustrated, but you get through it.
It's a fun class. You become close with the instructors and your classmates because you meet every day, but it's rough. The assignments take a lot of time actually, and you have homework pretty much every day. But overall a lot of fun, and I think I've definitely improved my Korean. Warning: Hanja (Chinese characters) is a focus of this class.
Korean is more than a class. It's a family (full of drinking buddies)!
It's a great class! Take it if you're interested in learning Korean. (But to native speakers, you should think more about taking 130-level and not 120).
awesome!!
Great class, although it really is your peers who make it so.  Learned a lot.
This is a great class and a wonderful way to learn a language!  The Korean department is terrific, and people should feel welcomed and take this class!
Prof. Kim is awesome.  Take her Korean courses!
it is a very fun class where you learn a lot but in a very stress free environment-i'm especially glad i took it freshman year.
As a less popular language to study, Korean classes can be better tailored to individual students' abilities and learning styles.  To really progress in a language, of course, you really have to devote yourself to the material beyond anything that's formally required by the course.
Korean continues to be one of my favorite classes at Harvard. The classes are small and you have a lot of chances to interact with your teachers outside of the classroom as well. My love for Korean culture has continued to grow as a result of taking this class and I feel comfortable interacting with Korean students and natives in their language.
good way to fulfill a language requirement or citation
It's a lot of fun - but if you're serious about learning the language, you'll need to put in a time on your own outside of what this class requires of you
Make sure to practice listening A LOT
This course is a really great continuation of 120a! Lee SSN is fantastic and you will genuinely learn a lot.
I generally enjoyed this class. I wish it was a bit more rigorous, because I still think that, with the grammar and vocab we went over, I should feel far more fluent than I do. Lee seunsangnim is really lovely and chill and made the class amusing but almost too chill. I think I learned a lot about both Korean language and Korean culture from this and that's what I'm taking it for so I'm about 90% satisfied. They really took feedback from last term into account, so I think that this class is flexible with improvement!
For someone who is interested in Korean language/culture/history/etc, it is nice to have the background language knowledge. However, you may become frustrated with the speed of the class.
it is a lot of class time, but necessary for this stage in learning a language
Nice class and cool teacher. Should supplement with home study if really serious about improving Korean.
