One of my favorite classes - I love the teachers and the people I met through the class were all amazing.
Korean is very fun, and a relatively simple language when compared to other East Asian languages. It's a lot of work and memorization, but the professors make it interesting and amusing. They are also very willing to help outside of class (I enrolled just before the add/drop deadline and needed a lot of help catching up). I learned A LOT in a few short months.
One of the best language courses Harvard has to offer :).
It's a lot of work, but you learn a lot in a short period of time.
Definitely don't shirk on this class. It may be a language course, but it still requires time and committment to memorize all the grammer rules and vocab.
This course is not as rigorous as some of other intro language courses at Harvard, but it is still a comprehensive introduction to Korean and really helps students master pronunciation and intonation at the early stages of language learning. Also, the teachers are amazing and incredibly kind and supportive.
This class is so much fun, I highly recommend taking it. The teachers are great, everything is very well organised and you really feel like you are learning a lot.
it requires you to be attentive, but if you are interesting in korean, it is worth it
Although there is a class for native speakers, I think that this class was challenging enough to learn something new every time you go in a class (which was everyday).
If you like to have fun and learn a language at the same time, do take this class. One of goos thing about it, there is the Korean Language Program that organizes movie screening with delicious Korean food!
This is a fun class to take - it is a little difficult (as are all entry level languages) but definitely worth it!
I'm not sure I like the idea of words I enter into a webform coming back to haunt me. That said, I would tell them I enjoyed it, but it has the property that most foreign language classes do in throwing off your work schedule with daily assigments.
Korean Ba is a fun, interactive class that enables one to gain a greater understanding of the Korean language. The class is well-taught and informative, and Professor Kim is a wonderful professor.
Kim SSN is one of the most amazing teachers at Harvard. She makes Korean easy to understand and fun to learn. You get a chance to explore all aspects of Korean culture from music to subway maps to food.
Take Korean!!!Beginning Korean offers a supportive and fun learning environment, a small class size with tons of attention, and a very rewarding language learning experience overall!
Korean is a wonderful language to learn and Korean Ba is a GREAT class to take!
This is the best class ever :)
It's a language class so expect work every day.
I think I was one of the only people in the class without a language/EALC requirement, Korean heritage, or a Korean S.O. - I just felt like taking a language class and chose Korean pretty much arbitrarily. Still, I think it's a great fifth class - it was fun, not too much work, and I still feel like I learned a lot.
My first recommendation is to take a language at Harvard. My second recommendation is to have it be as seemingly weird as you want--don't worry about usefulness. My third recommendation is to take Korean. This was a wonderful class!
This is a fantastically run class and you will learn a lot. Learning Korean is a long haul, but this course will put you well on your way.
Structured well so that you really do learn a lot in one semester. The professor is great, he's funny and really kind and makes sure you're learning. Workload isn't bad, there's a lot of worksheets and 2-3 light vocab quizzes a week. Helps if you're Korean and have heard the language before, even if you can't speak it. But no background or familiarity with the language is needed.
Highly, highly recommend this class. It was a ton of fun, and I feel like I learned a lot. It can be a lot of work, but at least the workload is pretty consistent throughout the semester, and the work is actually mostly pretty fun. Possibly the most enjoyable class I have taken in college so far.
This is a fun course and it's not too difficult. If you're interested in learning Korean, this is a great, relatively laid-back way to pick up some useful language tools, though this level of understanding won't be sufficient to really hold up a conversation. Bottom line: it's a good start, it's not too difficult, and it's fun!
Great class. Very fun
If you have to fill a language requirement, this is not an awful class to do it with. If you have some deep abiding desire to learn Korean, then nothing I say will change your mind. But if you're looking for a fun way to nab an extra credit or two, you could do better. The work isn't hard, but there's a lot of it, and it never stops. So be warned.
This class is fun and you really learn a lot in a short amount of time.
This is an awesome class! Definitely worth taking. It is very easy going and fun.
For students who have no prior Korean experience, this will be a very good class to learn intro Korean. Most of the people who take this course are not heritage speakers, and the progress in their Korean that I've seen throughout the semester is quite remarkable. For me, since I've grown up with Korean my whole life (I was never able to speak or write, so I wasn't able to take Bxa, which I kind of regret), this course was extremely easy, probably a little too basic and not challenging enough for me, but I still learned a lot of grammar and vocab as well.
This class is SO MUCH FUN! I actually learned a ridiculous amount of Korean, though there was a lot of work. Jeong SSN is amazing in section and Oh SSN is also really good at conveying and explaining things during lectures.
This is the most well-run language course I've ever taken.  There are tons of learning resources made available, the pace of the course is not too fast or too slow, and the professors are really kind and patient, yet good teachers.  Even though I've previously only spoken Indo-European languages, this course made learning Korean a really approachable, interesting, and fun task.
This class is great if you want a beginning level of communication, reading, and writing in Korean.
It takes some time, but it is a great course and language.
This was an intensive yet relaxing introduction to Korean. Oh SSN and Ha SSN are both incredibly caring, precise, and supportive for each and every student that tries. Be studious and timely with your homework, come to class bright-eyed, attend to each word with deliberate concentration, and soon enough you'll find yourself loving your improvement.
Awesome! yay korean!
This class is absolutely amazing! The teachers and material make acquiring a new language fun and easy. I highly recommend this class, even if you are just using it to fill a language requirement!
This class is amazing! The teachers are very kind, helpful, and great at explaining Korean grammar; because of them, class is fun and interesting. Before I began this course, I barely knew how to say "hello" in Korean. Now I can have a full conversation! I learned so much this semester and had a great time doing so.
A very manageable class, esp. if you just want to study Korean for fun. (E.g. if you like Korean pop, you have a Korean girlfriend, etc.) It seemed that the instructors were trying hard to be lenient, to not give students too much homework or stress. Which was just fine for me because my other classes kept me really busy this semester. But I sometimes got a little frustrated at what I perceived to be a lack of rigor, e.g. I wish the instructors held us to higher standards in grammatical accuracy, accent, pronunciation, etc. So yes, the instructors are very nice (and I like them quite a bit), but I wonder if they might not be too nice to be effective language instructors, especially for those who are hardcore about language learning. (I have heard, however, that it gets more rigorous during the second semester.)
Super fun class with great teachers and classmates! Must take if you want to learn a new language!
Whether you have some experience or no experience, whether you need to get your language citation done or you just like languages, Korean is a great language with an interesting culture.  Moreover, the teaching staff for this class is fabulous.
The Korean language class is a gem among Harvard classes - if you have any interest in an East Asian language, definitely look no further!
This course is so great. The teaching staff is very helpful and approachable. You will really learn Korean! Put in the effort of studying even just a little bit every night and it will pay off.
YOU WILL LEARN A LOT - it is a great and fun class!
This is a very good and fun class.
This is a very fun class!
Because my classmates and I were interacting on a daily basis as with any language class, we've developed great friendships!
This class takes a lot of time and studying. In the beginning, there are a lot of quizzes, but it gets better. I would recommend taking it. It is a lot of fun. The sections are really helpful.
This class demands a lot of work and effort, both in the classroom and between class meetings. However, the experience of learning Korean is very rewarding and interesting, and I would recommend this course to anyone considering taking an Asian language.
Very fun, laid-back, and worthwhile, and great teaching staff
If you want to learn an Asian language that is Easy (at least in comparison to other East Asian languages) and fun, then you MUST take this class!
Friendly class. The professors are so passionate about teaching the course that they make their own video materials with themselves as actors.
This class really was a lot of fun, and not too much work.
Make sure you have either a light schedule with your other courses or know Hangul
