This is a great class to take if you're remotely interested in learning the language. It's fun and not too demanding (would suggest actually doing the homework on time though it would help)
Even if you have no experience with the Hindi language, you'll be absolutely fine. Richard ji is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard so far; he's immensely passionate about the language and you'll look forward to going to class everyday.
Fun class with a wonderful professor who was so engaging that many students are taking the intermediate course solely because they want him to teach them for another year.
Not the easiest language class if you're trying to fulfill a language requirement. Grading is at times opaque and its tough to really know how you're doing. I took the course as an elective because I wanted to learn a language that means a great deal to me culturally and had a good experience.
This is probably the best class you'll take at Harvard. You will learn a lot of Hindi-Urdu very quickly and if you put in the effort, you'll find that the class is actually a lot of fun.
This is an excellent way to fulfill a language requirement. The course is challenging but very manageable and Richard-ji's teaching will make you want longer class periods.
The professor is amazing and makes class very enjoyable. He is incredibly knowledgable about Hindi and current issues regarding not only South Asia but also the state of South Asian languages. Learning the language is very fun. I took the class because Hindi, which my parents never taught me, is my mother tongue. I'm very excited to go home and be able to communicate with my family in our language!
This course is a lot of fun! Richard Ji is a phenomenal teacher who so obviously cares about Hindi. He is very knowledgeable, and he does whatever he can to make this course both informative and fun. It doesn't have too much explicit work, which is nice for the weeks where you are overloaded with other classes, but you do need to put in a lot of extra time to really learn the language - but that's true of any language course. There is also a lot to cover, so be aware that it won't be as easy as the first semester of the course. All in all - if you want to learn Hindi or are just undecided on which language to learn, this is an amazing course!!
Very reasonable workload and flexible instruction, but Richardji likes to move quickly.
a fun and engaging language class
Richard ji is a great teacher and the class flies by-- definitely keep up with the workbook assignments
Richard ji and Iris ji do an incredible job teaching Introductory Hindi/Urdu. The course covers all but a handful of Hindi's complex grammatical structures and gives a great foundation in reading, writing (in both the Devanagari and Nastaliq scripts) and speaking. Work is very manageable, but there are always opportunities for challenges for students willing to take them on.
Difficult if you don't have prior knowledge.
The teaching is excellent.
Nicolas and Amy are great because they start teaching urdu and Hindi from the very beginning and simplify grammar and verbal concepts so that they are super easy to learn if you practice and keep up with homework.
This course is a great way to learn Urdu/Hindi. It meets every day of the week and you get assigned homework every day so be willing to manage your time and get the assignments done. If you are falling behind, go to OFFICE HOURS!! Both Nicolas ji and Professor Bard are helpful. A background in Urdu/Hindi would be helpful but isn't necessary but if you don't have the background, be prepared to do a little more leg work. Also, the classes tend to be small so make use of the opportunity to ask questions. Study hard and don't procrastinate.
Not an easy course especially if you haven't had some experience with the language before, but very rewarding
