If you want to progress in Hindi-Urdu, you must take this course. Richard-ji is one of the most passionate and dedicated teachers I've ever had, and he's there whenever you need to challenge and help you dig deeper.
Studying Hindi-Urdu at Harvard is an incredible experience where you get to engage with professors who are so passionate about the language and South Asian countries, and your fellow students are so dedicated to studying the language and are there because they want to learn more. Hindi-Urdu 102 is a challenge coming from Hindi-Urdu 101 but the professors and your classmates are there to help you every step of the way.
Professor Delacy provides an excellent atmosphere to develop language skills.  Strong focus on written component of language.
If you are enthusiatic about Hindi-Urdu and want to build upon your first year knowledge certainly take this course. The professor is knowledgable, effective, and approachable.
Richard ji is an extraordinary instructor. In-class readings in this class are fun, yet challenging, and help you learn a lot of new vocab and sentence structures. If you have any trouble and need help, Richard ji is always willing to assist outside of class. If you took Hindi-Urdu 101 and enjoyed it, definitely take 102. It is a blast.
If in doubt, take it.
Recognize that his year is not as relaxed as 101 and the pace definitely picks up! But once you understand that and prepare yourself, the course is amazing.
This is the most amazing language course ever with the most amazing professor at Harvard. He is amazingly understanding and committed to helping you learn. He is also incredibly flexible in order to ensure that you actually learn the language.
This is a great class in which you will learn the language at a great pace.  Small setting helps, and the Professor is very invested in his class!
Take initiative in this class. Richard ji is very chill and let's you take control over your own learning BUT you only get out as much as you put in.
Go to Delacy's office hours if you need help!
This course is great! I learn so much every class and Richard ji is amazing. You should definitely take this course to improve in you ability to read and understand stories and to improve in grammar and speaking.
Professor Delacy is one of the most understanding and effective teachers at Harvard. He puts a lot of effort into making sure that his lessons are clear. However, second year Hindi-Urdu requires the consolidation of a lot of material as well as lot of time spent on fluency and practice. I would strongly suggest getting a textbook to supplement the assignments, because there is no assigned grammar guide and you will need one in order to effectively review the work that you have learned.
100% recommended given that A) Richard Delacy is teaching it and B) The time gets changed to later in the day.
Learning Urdu-Hindi from Richard-ji is a pleasure as usual. He really takes the time to ensure that everyone can take something valuable away from the class.
If you are interested in continuing Hindi, this class is the clear next step. Richard is a great teacher who is clearly knowledgable and excited about imparting his love for Hindi to students; however, much of this class falls on you as the student - how much time you want to put into it largely determines how much you will get out of it. It's easy to coast, but in that case the class has very little output.
This is a wonderful class with interesting readings and a great instructor.
Requires lots of time and commitment. Delacy is very helpful and understanding.
Take this class! Richard is a great teacher.
Be prepared to put in a lot of work. The more effort you put in beyond the required assignments, the better you're going to do.
Great way to continue with your learning of Hindi-Urdu.
Great course. The workload is manageable, class is fun, and you build your knowledge of more advanced grammatical structures in Hindi-Urdu.
It is challenging but worthwhile.
Review your Hindi before you take this class.
Richard-ji is awesome. Be prepared to lose part of your weekend and at least one week night to doing assignments for this course. It is totally worth it! Work with friend, and it'll be really fun. Visit Richard! He is a stress reliever and a motivator. He just wants you to succeed.
Professor Richard Delacey is the best person to learn Hindi from. The course is not only superb in the technical delivery of linguistic proficiency, it is also a lot of fun.
This class helped me to read Hindi/Urdu a lot better. Not only did it help me practice reading, but also understanding grammar constructions and appreciation for forms of poetry and prose. This is a great class that you must take if you want to continue language study in Hindi.
you will get out of it what you put into it
This is definitely a jump from Urdu 101 but, if you're up for it it is totally worth it and much more rewarding. You'll learn grammar that makes you sound extremely sophisticated and you'll be able read things and watch things that are extremely interesting.
