If it's given, make sure Jason Stanyek's teaching it. Though that might be difficult given that he's actually a faculty member at NYU.
such an amazing class! take it!
This course is so fun, interactive, and the professor is great.
I know Shakespeare can seem intimidating at times, but to those I would recommend this course all the more.  No matter the level at which you enter, you will leave with a much deeper understanding for and appreciation of Shakespeare and Verdi (among others).  Do not worry if you specialize in either Shakespeare or music, but not both: one will more than suffice.
Dr. Albright is kind, brilliant, quirky, and hilarious! This course provides a fun/ unique way to analyze Shakespeare. Take this course!
A brilliant class with a brilliant professor on how music+text+drama interact. But a very flawed seminar. Prof Albright left far too much time of the course up to presentations from the students. Perhaps the format will change next time it's offered... Also, the level of the musical conversation was very low. But it is wonderful to engage with Prof Albright's ideas.
sometimes lecture parts of the class are a bit dull, but albright is brilliant and has a lot to share, and is also very nice.
This is one of those must-take courses at Harvard. If you are interested in Shakespeare, this is the best Shakespeare course you can possibly take. If you are interested in opera, this is a great way to study opera and learn a lot about Shakespeare and the adaptations of his plays into operas. It is a fun course, and by simply reading the plays (about 1 every 2 weeks), you will have a lot to contribute in lecture (which is small) and section.
great way to learn shakespeare through music
This class covers broad thematic strokes, and is dependent on the expertise of the students who enrol. There is the opportunity to have fascinating discussions about Berlioz, Verdi, Britten, and Shakespeare, but the preparation requires effort!  Study the music carefully with the score, and bring lots of ideas to seminar, where everyone will benefit form them
Albright takes a historical approach, lectures are packed with information.
This is possibly the most enjoyable course I've taken.  Professor Albright is a unique genius and an inspiration.  If you have any interest in Shakespeare or Verdi, TAKE THIS CLASS!!!
one of the best cross-concentration classes you will take at Harvard. if only there were more...
I would only recommend this class to those people who really enjoy Shakespeare, which is most (and self-explanatory), I suppose...
Easily the best Music 19_ I took.
This class was incredible. I learned so much and was honored to be able to participate in discussion with full-fledged professors!
this was a rare and incredibly valuable experience to spend an entire semester with several of the most brilliant scholars working in american musicology today. not to be missed!
Unfortunately, this class is not replicable - if something like this is offered again - TAKE IT!
Great atmosphere and fascinating topic
This class is amazing! Try to take as many courses with these two professors as you can during your time here. In teaching this course together, Shelemay and van Orden opened up an incredibly intriguing historical-contemporary musicological dialogue that has forever altered my perspective on musical topics. I learned so much from the participating graduate students, too, and also through careful engagement with a wide variety of case study examples.
Great opportunity to become familiar with the major literature on music and migration, and to pursue a project of interest to you.
Classes like this make harvard special
Fantastic opportunity to meet people working as musicians in the world
I will remember this course for the rest of my life. What a treat it was! To learn from such a knowledgeable professor and TF, to hear the stories of professional musicians from all around the world, to be invited to become a part of the SilkRoad family in a way--this course is everything a Harvard course should be. In the process of learning about performing musical difference, I guarantee that you will also discover things about yourself as well. Take this class if you can!
Any class that you can take with Kay Shelemay is a class worth taking, but this class is unlike anything I have taken at Harvard.  Definitely worth considering.
This course was amazing, but it was definitely an experiment this time around. The chance to meet and learn from members of this ensemble was extraordinary, and the personal conversational nature of this course is unparalleled. However, they were still clearly working out the kinks, and some of the assignments and basic logistics needed more structure. If it's offered again, though, TAKE IT, because it is an incredibly special experience and they'll have hopefully nailed down the details a little more.
This course is a wonderful opportunity to gain exposure to eminent musicians and thinkers the world over. I would particularly recommend this course to students rooted in the Western classical tradition who find themselves struggling to find the relevance or necessity of their work. Having entered the class with that kind of background, I was blown away by the insights that this course offered. My conception of music, the role of a musician, how musicians can impact communities, etc. radically changed and expanded.
This is far and away the most transformative class I have taken at Harvard.  Professor Shelemay is an amazingly talented teacher and discussion-leader, and students of all academic and extracurricular backgrounds will be enrapt by the testimonies and discussions facilitated by the professor, the TF, and the visiting artists.  You will address challenging topics, such as artistic and cultural appropriation, musical exchange, advocacy, and even immigration.  I have never felt so inspired by a class to go out and DO something--to change the world in whatever way I can, whether using music or any other artistic medium.  If you have the opportunity to take this course, do go ahead!  You will never regret it.
This class was phenomenal. It was so amazing seeing all the Silk Road Ensemble musicians playing their respective instruments for us, and then talking about the ethics and implications of cross-cultural music exchange. Professor Shelemay and the musicians were all phenomenal instructors and drove the conversations in fascinating directions. It was clear that a lot of work went into the creation of this course, and it really paid off. I could not recommend this class moreengaging, interesting, and fun.
This was one of the greatest classes I have taken here at Harvard. Prof Shelemay and Matt did such a great job running the class and Christina, Shane and Cristin (our most frequent guests) were amazing. All the members of the silk road ensemble are inspiring. If this course is offered again ("Exploring Musical Difference" with Silk Road ensemble) you must take this class. A truly unique Harvard experience.
this course will challenge you a lot, but it's taught very well and the subject matter is very interesting!
