This is a good class that introduces you to a broad range of people in the field, which is really exciting. I don't think I learned a whole lot about the topics outlined in the syllabus, but most weeks it served as a great reminder about why disability studies can be so exciting and valuable. The community partnership was also a good experience that wasn't excessively demanding.
Definitely take this course if you're interested in social issues of music at all. Community partnerships outside of class do tend to take up a lot of time, but they're really valuable to learning and can be refreshing from the drone of psets and readings in other classes.
This class is so great!  The teaching staff is amazing and you can tell that they really care about the material we discussed.  The guest lecturers are also really great and provide a variety of insights.
TAKE THIS CLASS. it's so easy to do well and you get to learn about a topic that is so important. This class has a community engagement aspect where you leave campus to participate in a community music ensemble. Forcing myself to leave the Harvard bubble was so refreshing and I was doing it for class credit! what more could you want?
This is a fantastic course that really challenges you to confront your subconscious biases about the disability community you didn't even know you had. It is really fun and you learn a lot from andy, jenny, emily, and the guest lecturers -highly recommend this course!
This is a wonderful, important class that illuminates an important area of study that is often ignored in academia or Harvard in general. The engaged scholarship portion is also very exciting. I learned a lot and found each class meeting to be thoroughly interesting and thought provoking. Take it!
This course is more of an introductory sampler course for disability studies. Music is only one of the many topics the course covers. We also learned about education, music therapy, other disability arts (theater, dance). The broad overview is useful to form a working knowledge of disability. I first took it thinking it would be require low-time commitment. However, the workload is much greater than it first appears to be: six trips to community partnerships (on your own time), lengthy midterm paper, final presentation and paper, 500-word blog post, 3 sets of 3 substantial journal entries. Often deadlines fall on the same date. All in all, I learned a lot--one of the most meaningful I've taken at Harvard.
Participation is not to be taken lightly in this class.
I've never been in a class where the teaching staff was more receptive to student feedback than M176R.  Professor Clark, Jenny, and Emily were each genuinely curious about our feelings and opinions and genuinely valued everything we had to say.  They have given themselves fully to putting thoughtfulness into this class, and they each constantly communicate about things they still need to work on.  They seem to put in more than what is expected of them.
This class is incredible it will completely change the way you think about disability and its relation to music.
Get as involved in community partnerships as you can!
This is one of the most rewarding and interesting courses I have taken at Harvard. It does a phenomenal job about talking about topics that usually stay under the radar.
This was probably the best course I've taken at Harvard. We covered important issues that I didn't even know I had been oblivious to before this course.
MUSIC 176R is a interdisciplinary exploration of the intersection of music and disability. Inquiry into society, art form, and self are prioritized through reading, discussion, and community-based learning.
We need more classes like this at Harvard, and we need more students actively engaged in them. Bring your enthusiasm and your open mind and you'll leave both grateful and fulfilled.
This course is really necessary in understanding inequities outside the parallels of just music and disability.  I believe this course really challenges indoctrinated bias.
I got the most from taking this class in comparison to every Harvard class I've taken up to this point.
This class was incredible on so many levels! It surveyed the intersection of music and disability in a way that was so thought-provoking and truly transformative. The breadth of the material was great (you'll definitely find something that piques your interest), the guest lecturer series was incredible, the service-learning component was so much fun, and the assignments (especially the final project) were very enjoyable and fulfilling. I took this class as an elective and was surprised at how much I enjoyed it and got out of it. Seriously, take this class!!
This class is a unique interdisciplinary experience that will expose you to new perspectives and change how you think about disability and the arts.
