This course represents, in my opinion, a terrific preparatory course for a graduate seminar in medieval music, and, moreover, offers a great way to enhance one's range of knowledge in preparation for general exams.  Highly recommended.
TAKE THIS CLASS.
This was a great course! Professor Clark's choices of reading, handouts and mini-lectures were all excellent. One of the best things about this course was its size, since small seminars tend to facilitate good discussion and individual learning. The subject matter, 13th century motets, is also fascinating and enchanting. Even aside from medieval music, though, I learned a lot about the development of musical notation, the philosophy of composition, the music of the Church, some rich cultural traditions in medieval France, essay writing in music classes, and methods of research in the humanities. Overall, this course was both entertaining and engaging.
This class would be an excellent small group seminar.  The greater the number of people, the worse the individual experience.
This course is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  I recommend it unconditionally.
You better find chant interesting.
You can get a lot out of the class if you engage with the reading, or you can get nothing out of it.
While the material was good, the class was hard to sit through b/c we were being taught most of the time, and when we debated, we weren't given enough background information first, so it made it hard to follow sometimes.
For concentrators looking for a very advanced course, alas, it turned out not to be so.  Extremely introductory.  Perhaps an effect of the large number of non-music concentrators admitted to the seminar?
It's a great way to learn a lot about chant studies.
Even if chant is not a particular research interest of yours, it is imperative to have at least a  general understanding of the topic for any research into later sacred music topics.
I cannot recommend this course more strongly. Professor Clarke is an amazing teacher and you will learn a lot.
This class will introduce you to a style of music unfamiliar to most. If you put in the time to do the readings and participate fully in the discussion, you will get a lot out of the class and push your own understanding of medieval music, as well as your analytical capabilities. Suzie Clark is a wonderful professor and lecturer, and I would highly encourage taking a class with her.
This is a musicology course, not music history, ie. you need to understand and enjoy music theory and analysis.
This is a superb course that teaches research skills applicable to any area of study.
I would like to tell students that regardless of their particular research interests, Professor Kelly's class is invaluable.  It is a wonderful class on Medieval music, but it is also a great introduction to musical research in general.
