TAKE THIS CLASS. Whether you are a musician or someone completely unfamiliar with music, this class will give you the vocabulary you need to talk about music and understand its evolution from the middle ages to the 1800s. As someone with a large musical background, this class has profoundly increased my appreciation of music and my analytical listening skills, and has additionally allowed me to challenge myself by attempting to perform different kinds of musical excerpts for the class. The most important part to succeeding in this class is listening to the course CDs and paying attention to the terms introduced in lecture.
If you like music this class is extremely enjoyable and interesting.
Be wary.  First off, don't take this because you think it's "easy."  It's easier for individuals with a average knowledge of music.
My favorite class that I've ever taken at Harvard! If you have any interest in music, this class is a must!
The second half of the course--Handel, Bach, Haydn, Mozart, and orchestration/opera--was much more fascinating to me than the first half of the course--Gregorian chant and the origins of performance music-- mainly because I was more familiar with the names/works of composers in the second half of the semester. This is not a class without its challenges, so don't be fooled into thinking you can breeze through without studying!
I recommend taking this class, especially if you have any interest in classical music or experience playing it. As a smaller lecture it's a nice break from big lecture courses. The lectures are relaxing, you listen to music while Professor Edwards explains it to you. Don't let the gregorian chant at the beginning scare you away.
It's really interesting. The papers aren't too long and the tests are mostly on vocab and memorization, which aren't too bad if you put the effort in.
Music 1a is really a fun class with a super teaching staff! You learn so much about early music history.
You learn about music you would otherwise not learn about. After taking the course, you really see music in a different way, especially if you had very limited knowledge of music
This is a great intro class for anyone interested in. Professor Edwards is very knowledgeable and passionate about teaching his class. If you have no musical background, I would be a little cautious about taking this course because you have to put in more effort to learn some of the notations and jargon.
If you have any interest in music, this course gives great insight into the origins of many facets of Western music (e.g., equal temperament, tonality) that we take for granted today.
I absolutely loves Music 1a. I think everyone should have a music history background in their repertoire. It is really interesting tracing western music all the way back to Gregorian Chant and seeing how music development all the way up until Mozart. Professor Edwards is a great teacher who clearly is passionate about the coursework. The class is a great way to satisfy the AIU gen-ed. Though the midterm and final require a lot of memorization of songs we have studied, you are given a review sheet with everything you need to know, even the essay questions that will be covered. This is a great study aid and makes the process of studying enjoyable as opposed to stressful. Take this class!
This is a really great class even for the not-so-musically inclined.  The survey is broad but informative, there is a lot of engaging in class listening and examination, the course staff is very helpful, and I feel more cultured having taken the course.  Work load is low (although be prepared to put time into prepping for midterm and final) and this course is a great way to fulfill a gen ed.
It's definitely a cool music course. The earlier part of the course is a little more boring in my opinion though as you talk about the very beginnings of music with chorale music and such.
If you're interested in music from 800-1800, this is a great way to survey some of the most important works and gain a greater appreciation for the composers that span this time. Background in music is incredibly helpful, not only because it makes the course material easier, but also because it makes the course material more interesting.
Keep up with the work all along and make sure you take notes on everything covered in lecture in section as it will be helpful down the road for a midterm or final. Often times what is covered in lecture and section only scratches the surface of the material, so you probably want to supplement your learning by reading the textbook and fact checking Wikipedia. The most work is spent preparing for the midterm and the final.
Medieval music is significantly more boring than you'd think.
The lectures are all powerpoint but can be broken up with videos, recordings, class singing sessions, or performances (mostly by students in the class). Perform in class if you can--it's pretty fun and helps you get more out of the class culturally. Learn the course music as you go so that you don't have to cram before the midterm and final. That said, don't take the class if you don't want to analyze music and learn a lot of history.
A background in music gives you a huge advantage
Make sure music history is really something that you are interested in. You will have to invest a fair amount of time bringing yourself up to speed with basic theory.
Make sure to keep up with the reading and the listening for the class. It offers and great way to stay with the lectures and explores the topics further.
I think that this is a pretty decent course that you should take only if you really appreciate music already.
Wonderful gen ed!
If you would like to take a fun, stress-free AI gen-ed, this is the one!  The teaching staff is excellent, enthusiastic, and more than willing to meet with you one-on-one if you need help.  The first quarter of the class may seem tedious but that is because most people have never been acquainted with such early music.  Once you get to early Baroque and Baroque music, the course is really enjoyable.  In terms of work, the essays are graded fairly and the exams are not too difficult, provided that you do all of the listenings (don't cram the listenings) and be familiar with the music vocabulary.  Overall, I can't think of a better way to start off the day than with some early music!
If you are at all interested in music take this class.
This is a great class! Take it if you have any interest in music.. There are in-class performances of music you study (by students in the class who would like to learn a piece or two) pretty frequently, which is wonderful. And it's great if you're a musician and you want to play some medieval music!
This one of the best ways to fulfill your AI gen-ed requirement, I am sure.
This class is not THAT easy, but it is interesting and gives everyone insight into where the music they have heard all their lives came from
Great class!  I already had an interest, which made me really get a lot out of it.  Assignments were fun but not too hard.  Great elective, or fifth class.
Make sure you do the listenings as the course goes on because it is impossible to learn them at the last minute.
This is a great course! Professor Edwards teaches the material extremely well, and Emerson is just as kind, thorough, and as great of a TF. The short papers aren't bad at all, the listenings are fun for the most part (distinguishing the Gregorian chants from one another was a bit rough...), and the live performances were definitely one of my favorite parts of the class. Easy, enjoyable way to fulfill a gen ed!
TAKE IT!!
You have to be very interested in music
Professor Edwards and Emerson Morgan made this class incredibly enjoyable. The class effectively taught me exactly what it was supposed to.
This class was a really fun addition to my courseload -- not too much work, and lecture was great because you get to listen to music and learn about its context.  The live performers were always fantastic.
Music 1a isn't just about the "great" composers (Palestrina, Bach, Mozart); it's about music as a process, with many transitional figures working to develop new styles.
Musical knowledge is useful. Most of the people in the class will have some background in pitch instruments, thus you will be disadvantaged even though the material is not dependent on that knowledge per se. Exams are not that bad, but the range of material is incredibly vast (IE 21 page single spaced study guide for final - which was not cumulative) - unless you keep apace, you will not sleep the night before.
This class is great for general education. The subject matter is interesting and the class is enjoyable. The assignments are not very difficult and are graded fairly.
The class is a great survey of music history.  It's generally pretty easy and fun work but the assignments come in spurts and during busy weeks, it can get a little daunting.
Music 1a offered a great introduction to classical music spanning over ten centuries, from medieval Gregorian chant to Haydn and Mozart. The workload is not too rigorous, but the material is very interesting. However, I feel that most people came into this course with some background in music, and I would imagine lacking that would make the course more difficult. For those with musical experience, this course also offers opportunities to perform in class, which was fantastic and low-key. Also, Dr. Edwards really tries to make the class as engaging as possible- he  plays lots of listening samples and even brings in performers to play the music live for the class.
