I liked this better than Music 97a.
I loved doing the homework for this class, as it was just me listening to recordings of music that I love. Class discussions were pretty painful a lot of times, though, as there was a substantially different musical background across the class. Some people were extremely accomplished musicians and scholars, while others had never listened to Beethoven before. While there's absolutely nothing wrong with this, it makes for pretty tough discussions of Beethoven.You also spend, at most, 30 minutes on each composer. Our discussion of Mahler, for example, was that he existed, and wrote 9 (or 10, depending on how you count it) symphonies, that were loud and had lots of trombones. Schubert and Schumann wrote songs, and Beethoven had 3 periods. Stockhausen and Xennakis are weird, and Debussy and Ravel were influenced by the orient. Reading "The Rest is Noise" by Alex Ross - or really any 19th/20th century music history text - will probably teach you as much or more than this class, without 2 hours of sleep-inducing discussion each week. That said, the TFs and the professor are good and know their stuff. It's more the conditions of the class (taking a whole bunch of people from different backgrounds and trying to discussion 250 heavily packed years of music in a semester) that make this a poor course.
TAKE IT NOW
To be willing to open up your tastes and preferences so that you can discover lots of great new music. I found that opening up my tastes meant that I had a greater appreciation for the pieces/styles that were previously outside of what I would choose to listen to.
Amazing class! Teachers are enthusiastic, and subject material is fun and taught excellently. My favorite of the Mus97 courses thus far!
Not worth taking.  You may as well just read the textbook and do the listening on your own.  not worth the time.
It's definitely an interesting course, and a great start for those who want to see the progression and development of music from Haydn to the present day. It does move very quickly, and you don't spend more than a week on each section. We covered a great berth of music, and the class did expose us to many different genres I don't think I would have listened to unless I had taken this class. Prepare to discuss music with a very analytical scope.
If you love music and are curious to learn more about the genre in depth, this is the course for you. It is taught magnificently by the professor and TFs and the passionate teaching comes through.
Take this class! Professor Shreffler is a wonderful, thoughtful, and engaging lecturer who loves engaging with amazing primary sources and has a passion for the subject and just as big a wealth of knowledge. Just be aware that the course requires TONS of texts, some of which are superfluous. I think this may be changed for next time, though.
This class is a very well-taught, well-organized overview of the Western canon in classical music from the last two to three centuries. Expect it to cover a lot of material in a short amount of time, and for it to be almost completely Western-focused and classical music focused. You don't need to play an instrument or have a great music theory background to keep up with the course (I think they will let you take it if you place into Music 51a on the theory placement test, but you'd have to ask). However, you do need to have a good ear for remembering music and hearing the different qualities of classical music (such as the differences in the sounds of different instruments and the form/structure of melodies and harmonic changes), because you'll have to identify and talk about those things in coursework and on the final exam. The more time you can devote weekly to going back over the main historical concepts that came up in reading/lecture, and checking on how well you know and can recognize the assigned listening for the week, the more confident you will feel throughout the course and the easier it will be to prepare for the final. The workload during the semester is very manageable and the lectures (both by Professor Shreffler and by the section TFs) are interesting and cover a variety of topics. I highly recommend this course if you're interested in getting some knowledge of Western music history or filling in gaps in the picture of that history that you already have, because it will give you a working understanding of a broad time period but do so through some very specific examples of composers and pieces. And if you have to take this course for a music concentration requirement, I think you have a lot to look forward to!
A whirlwind survey of rather a lot of music history.
97b is a lot of fun! I loved the material, and Professor Shreffler presents it in an exciting way that really helps contextualize pieces that are accepted as part of the canon.
I really hope this course is redesigned and made more rigorous, otherwise it'll continue to be that required concentration course that takes a bit of your soul away because it wasted your time.
I really enjoyed my experience in the class, but if you are a Music Concentrator I think you should try to take it earlier in your career if you think it's what you're really passionate about learning this. It is inevitable that you have to pay your dues in studying music by studying repertoire broadly, and this case we tried to study the repertoire of Classical music broadly. I guess I felt like I had already done that in my theory and other repertory classes, but the truth is that every class has a unique light to shine on this matter - and looking at our favorite Classical as well as contemporary composers always has new things to show us when we look with fresh eyes. The assignments were very meaningful and fun. I enjoyed the perspectives on research and writing that I gained in doing them, and I almost wish I had been exposed to before my senior year.
Definitely take this 97 class! You are exposed to some amazing music that you otherwise may never study, and the assignments are challenging yet extremely rewarding.
97b doesn't teach very much about how the music works; Prof Kelly in 97a more consistently supplies that sort of insight.
Be prepared-some of the music you will love and some of it you will not, but that's just part of it.
97b is a solid course.  It's a huge survey of a ton of music, so be ready to be swamped with material at the end if you can't keep up with the weekly listening.  If you want a gut course, take Music 1; if you want a class that you can engage with and apply to your life, go for 97.
The course is really great in terms of giving you lots of information about composers throughout history, but sometimes it fails to address the causal factors of new advances in music and tends to focus more on details than on the larger picture.
It's fine if you have to take it - the material you can hardly go wrong with learning - but it just wasn't particularly engagingly taught.
It covers a lot of material but this comes at the cost of not deeply understanding any of it when all is said and done. It presents a good overview though. I'd be likely to recommend this musically inclined non-concentrator, especially those who have a modicum of theory knowledge.
I really wanted to like this class. It covers a lot of fantastic music, yet never goes into much depth... it is a good survey, however. Assignments, in the form of 2-page papers, are extremely frustrating/taken a bit too seriously. I'd sooner recommend the music department's theory courses.
This is a comprehensive survey of the post-Baroque canon, but the instructor can place emphasis however she/he likes. It would behoove you to read the syllabus carefully at the beginning of the course to avoid surprises (e.g. weeks upon weeks of opera, which some students weren't expecting).
Great overview of Western music from 1750 to today
It's a load of work, but if you push through it you leave the course a more confident musician.
It's a good class. Definitely came out with a broader sense of classical music history than before. However, lectures could be better and more interesting. Additionally, there was way too much 20th century material.
This class is very informative about a fairly narrow repertoire of musicians from 1730 to 1970. It definitely will expose you to new composers and increase your understanding of familiar composers. This is a class that I would suggest only to concentrators (it is required).
Be prepared for a great amount of work, but also to be rewarded with a solid background in Western Classical music history/repertory.
If you are looking for a course that will give you Western music in its best fullness, this is it.
Take it if you either don't care about your grade, can memorize a lot of music or have a natural talent for remembering music you hear.
It's more work than the average music history class, but you also get a lot more out of it, and the assignments are really enjoyable!  They're all very different, so it keeps you thinking creatively, rather than just saying "write another research paper" or "compare these two pieces" or whatever.
Music 97b was a fantastic survey of music history from the Classical Period to today. The readings could be quite heavy at times, but they were well worth it. Stay on top of the readings and the listenings, and you'll be fine!
This course is a must for those interested in music who feel that they don't have a very comprehensive understanding of the big-name canonical composers (and other lesser-known voices!) from the 1700s onward. It's a lot of reading and listening, but I can guarantee that if you put in the work you will have an understanding of music history at least on par with most music concentrators here.
This is a great survey course but has a lot of work in terms of weekly readings and listening assignments. Very informative and learned a lot, but now that the music curriculum has changed am unclear as to what the future of this course will look like.
not difficult at all, but a good course if you want a very broad intro to music history
This class is interesting and worth taking (actually required for music majors).  Helpful to learn music history when playing/performing the music.
It is so much fun!  The best of both worlds: History and Music!
Unfortunately this course is a waste of time for serious musicians. If you have even a relatively superficial knowledge of western classical music you are unlikely to take much from this class.
Be ready to read alot, yet enjoy a quick adventure through a vast time period of music.
I didn't particularly like Professor Shreffler's teaching style. The class is pretty boring but was pretty easy. No midterm or final, but lots of papers.
If you actually LOVE learning about classical repertory, take this class! If you don't, don't. It's not a fun elective, but rather a solid concentration requirement. It was fairly interesting for a music history course, however, and did provide a good survey of the last few hundred years.
This is a good class, but it's very dry at times.
