This course is very interesting and easy, and it is not time-consuming in the least.
I really enjoyed the class! If you don't have any background in music but you are interested to learn, you should consider taking this class.
Very relaxed way to gain a basic knowledge of recent music history.
This was probably the most enjoyable class I have taken at Harvard so far. Take it and you won't be disappointed.
Dear children, this is a worthwhile course.
I would take this class if you have an interest in music or becoming competent in music; however, do not take it simply as an easy gen-ed course.
unless there is a significant change in the course, don't take it. Yes, there is not much work but overall it's not worth it.
Its a compelling overview of the romantic, modernist and post-modernist periods and the composers who dominated these schools. The listening choices are great (and thats most of the workload) and the readings are actually pretty interesting. Don't treat the class like a joke and you should find it pretty easy.
This course is very enjoyable and informative. I looked forward to lectures and enjoyed writing the few (and brief) assignments asked of us.
You will learn a lot from a man who speaks very grandiloquently; however, take it if you want an easy gen ed.
Professor Drew Massey is a great lecturer, so you will enjoy the class. He always performed a piece, or we listened to a recording, so it's different from any other class you can take at Harvard. Really enjoyable and relaxed, with open book exams, and light readings, this is a class to sit and enjoy while learning about music and its history.
If you like music or know a little bit about it, this is an enjoyable class.
Music 1b is unreal!!!  I can't say enough how refreshing it is to take a course that is so different from your other courses.  Doing the homework is a treat because it doesn't really feel like homework.  The lectures are entertaining.  The work is very manageable.  Taking a music course is truly at the heart of what it means to have a liberal arts education!  And if you like this course, definitely check out First Nights!
This class is engaging, educational, entertaining, and extraordinary. It fits the Gen Ed requirements perfectly, especially those which indicate the class should be designed for non-concentrators. Most importantly, the Music department houses the kindest and happiest people on campus, bar none. This class, and this department are unmissable. If you turn down the chance to take this course, you are seriously missing out.
A good, manageable survey of Western music 1800-present, just as advertised. If you're a musician, you might be a bit bored, depending on your knowledge of repertoire, but you'll still learn things and/or fulfill a gen ed.
excellent professor, super nice tf (sarah), excellent material and class, can be useful at a cocktail party!
Music 1b is worth taking insofar as its easy and learning about music even a little bit is very worthwhile. However, the course isn't well run, the sections are useless, and the lectures are dull. You won't learn all that much in this class, but It's not at all stressful and I'm already appreciating classical music in new ways.
Prof. Massey is a great lecturer and keeps the class engaged in the material.  The music selections are also good and interesting (if not always pleasant to listen to).
Great class if you're interested in music at all. No musical training background necessary. Manageable course load, gets heavy before midterms and finals, but not too demanding otherwise.
The introduction you'll get to the western musical tradition is solid, but the grading and assignments are pretty arbitrary. If you're taking it as an elective and have little background knowledge in music theory, you should take it pass/fail. You'll enjoy the class better, and you won't get mad about the grading.
Unless you like music history a lot, go with a different music gen-ed class
It's a great class, and the material is really interesting! It's a great way to fulfill a Aesthetic and Interpretative Understanding gen ed.
This class is a good one to take with a heavy course load because it does not require a great amount of work from you. The class is generally pretty interesting, but towards the end, it starts to get a bit strange when you get into all the modernist music. However, the class overall was pretty good.
Don't expect to hear much good music after Beethoven.
Take this class if the previous professor comes back.
Fun class!
This class is fairly easy, but the assignments and such are very vague and strange.  You'll like the music and that part, but get frustrated with the course organization and written work.
This class is awesome, but be warned about modern music. The professor makes up for all the dissonance with his awesome dynamic and great lectures.
A great introduction to modern music for the classical enthusiast.
Really good introduction to music history.
Great break from your normally hectic schedule. It's fun to take, fun to partake in, and fun material to work with. It's simply great.
I've never enjoyed a course more.  Lectures are never boring and the historical and musical connections you begin to be able to make are fascinating.  You come out feeling very enriched and thankful to have attained such knowledge.
A little musical knowledge might be helpful, but this is a really great class that is taught exceptionally well and is not very difficult.
This course is generally not very demanding, but it is still intellectually stimulating, which makes for a great combination. It is definitely possible to take this class regardless of your musical background, but it may be most beneficial for those who have some degree of musical experience and want to learn more about its history.
Highly recommend if you are at all interested in music.
The first half of this class is very enjoyable. The second half is not so much. Lectures are okay, but not particularly enthralling. Section depends on the TF, but Louis was very approachable and skilled at synthesizing everything we learned in lecture. That said, exams are easy and there are not too many assignments, so it's a relatively light workload. If you want a general survey of Western music from 1800-present, go ahead and take it. However, don't expect to learn much about popular music, and don't expect to learn about many popular composers or pieces.
The class was very interesting and taught me a lot. However, parts of it are frustrating, and sometimes I felt at a disadvantage because of my lack of music background. However, overall, I am glad that I took this course.
This is a fun way to fulfill your requirements. It was more interesting than I expected, and I really enjoyed it. Lectures were fun to go to, and sections were both helpful and painless.
A great introduction to some of the most well-known composers and a better grasp on the evolution of music in the past 150 years!
Good easy Gen Ed for those who know some music theory. If the professor is a GREAT performer, then you are in for some amazing performances during lecture. Nonetheless a great course for learning some knowledge about classical music that will stay with you for much longer after the course is over.
Only Massey can make Beethoven boring.
This class is fun!
If you have no musical background it will require much more effort than other students but the class is very rewarding
I know what you're thinking: you have one elective and you know nothing about music and would like to become more literate on the subject.  This course will make you more musically literate, but possibly at great expense.  IT IS NOT GRADED IN A WAY THAT IS APPROPRIATE FOR AN ELECTIVE COURSE FOR PEOPLE FROM AN OUTSIDE CONCENTRATION.  If you are tone deaf, don't take this course. If you don't think you'll be able to memorize the sounds of pieces after studying, don't take this course. Take it if you don't care about your GPA, but otherwise--if you're a musical novice--this might not be the best way to explore your interest in music. The teachers will tell you that they are teaching to the novices, but they are grading to those with experience. There is no curve because musical experts are in the course and they throw off the grading for all the new people. Literally, there are musical geniuses and well-renowned performers who will take this: how can you possibly compete with them in terms of musical knowledge when you enter knowing nothing.  DON'T TAKE THIS COURSE UNLESS YOU REALLY DON'T CARE ABOUT YOUR GRADES!
The second half of the course focuses on very modern music, which is painful to listen to
It is great class for gaining a broad overview of western classical music in a non-intensive manner.
I was worried that it's going to be a tough class for me since I did not have any musical background, and I knew people in HRO taking it also. It was a steep learning curve and I struggled a little bit when I first encountered the terminologies, but I survived and did pretty decent. Try to ask your friends for help at the beginning and go to your TF's office hours. Try to get Louis as your TF. I didn't have him as my TF, but I did go to his review sessions for the midterm and final, and it was really helpful.
If you know music or are interested in it, this is an interesting and very low-commitment class.
Great for students looking to be educated listeners.
I took this class because I sat down in lecture and the Professor presented the material in an engaging manner which caught my attention.  However, I never listened to classical music before and I have never played an instrument.  In other words, I had zero background in this subject.  Other people in this class played in the HRO and had "perfect pitch." So basically, I was very  nervous about how this would turn out.  Because let's be honest, taking an interesting class is all well and good but at the end of the day it's about the grade. So I can say that I honestly learned a lot about classical music, broadened my horizons and even managed to do well in the class.  The material was definitely presented in a way where anyone could do well as long as they worked hard.  So take the class seriously and definitely don't be afraid to take it if you haven't been living, breathing, and dying classical music your whole life.  You'll do great.
You will be competing against a lot of students who took music in high school and have at least a basic working knowledge of the composers we learn about in class. Keep up with the readings and listening but especially pay class attention and take good notes during lecture, make sure you understand the "things you should know from this lecture" don't let the low workload fool you about the difficulty of this course though the material is very interesting
I learned a lot and am really glad I took this course!
Lot of fun, not too much work.
A fun way to fulfill a Core requirement. If you want to explore music since 1800, take this class.
This was one of my favorite classes that I have taken at Harvard.  Massey is a great lecturer and the work for this class is minimal.  Definitely take it!  It's a lot less work than some other gen eds.
This course makes you feel like you actually learned something applicable to your life.
This course is such a funa and great course, especially if you love music.
If you've ever taken a music course before, whether in theory or history, take something higher up in the department. If you're a musician, or a listener of "classical" (not necessarily Classical) music, take something higher up in the department. If you truly know little of "classical" Western music, by all means, go ahead.
It is so easy your grade my suffer from lack of motivation.  Other than that, very interesting.
Memorize the music early.
Take this class! It is a great way to round out your schedule!
Do not underestimate how much material you are going to cover in this class. The class involved copious note-taking, replaying the songs to familiarize how they sound, writing commentaries every other week. It's not stressful because it's music, and it's pleasant and interesting to study, but it is not a course you can bullshit.
Great course!  Do not need to know anything about music.  Lectures were extremely entertaining and useful.  At the end of the course, you will have realized you've learned a lot.
This is a very useful course to take.  It will improve your knowledge of the history of western music, which is important both for cocktail conversation and for your own listening enjoyment--in the concert hall or in your bedroom.  It presents information that every educated person should be exposed to.  However, the course was quite persnickety in its grading, particularly on the exams, where close listening and arbitrary details about the excerpts seemed to be prized over thematic ideas about the evolution of music.  I studied very thoroughly for both exams and was somewhat dismayed by the way in which they were graded.
I thought it was a great class. Fun, informative - just a great thing to learn about and know about im life. Such an incredible opportunity to learn about music and listen to music.
If you want an overview of romanticism and modernism with regards to music, this class is definitely worthwhile. Section was sometimes unhelpful, but I definitely feel like I now have the ability to engage on a variety of levels with music.
This was a very fun class for anyone- it doesn't matter if you had previous knowledge in music or not.
I loved this class - looked forward to it!
Really fun class. Prof. Massey is dope. Section is great. Minimal work.
I thought this was a great class, especially with Professor Massey. I really enjoyed going to these lectures twice a week. The readings were very short and you only needed to pull out the main points. Also, the exams were pretty easy if you had listened to the pieces a lot before the exam. And although the professor says this is a course for beginners, I still think that people coming in without a music background are at a severe disadvantage because it is much easier for those with a musical background to do well in this course.
easy way to knock out your gen ed requirement. interesting at first, but becomes a bit tiresome after the first midterm
This is an amazing class. The professor and section leaders are great, and they really make this class wonderful. The material isn't hard, the concepts are well taught, and you get to listen to really interesting music that is very different than what you would expect!
This was a great fun class. I thoroughly enjoyed the lectures, and the sections were worth going to.
This is an amazing class! If you want to learn about different types of music and musical movements, take this course! No previous knowledge of music is necessary at all.
In some ways I wish I had taken a theory class, but it on the whole wasn't too bad. The readings are only somewhat necessary. Make thorough cheat sheets for the midterm and final and you will have no problem. A relatively painless way to knock out a gen ed.
You should definitely take this class. It's really well done and very refreshing. There are definitely a lot of douche bags sprinkled around though. But it's easy to ignore them.
This is a good class overall.  You will enjoy listening to the first half of music, but the atonal second half is hard to listen to.
I enjoyed this class, but not as much as I'd hoped I would.  The class spent too much time on the twentieth century at the expense of the nineteenth century.
The first half is super fun, but the second half (modernism) has some really strange music. That said, if you're willing to stick it through, then it's a fun and probably easy class. I got through without ever doing the readings, but paying close attention in section and lecture when my professor/TF summarized a key reading.
If you are interested in having a basic knowledge of Western music, this is absolutely the class for you. It is interesting, fun, and not too much work.
This is a great way to fulfill the Aesthetic & Interpretive Understanding Gen Ed.  It's a very easy class if you have a musical background, but a music background isn't necessary to do well.  Professor Massey is one of the best lecturers I have had at Harvard, and class is always enjoyable as he plays on the piano or shows media clips often.  Awesome course!
A great class to take if you're interested in connections between history/social thought and music! I took this class while I was completing Social Studies 10a and 10b and it literally blew my mind! So many interesting connections to make between the two...The work load's very light (it took this as a fifth class and it wasn't a hassle) and it gives you a lot of freedom for expression in assignments. Overall, very enjoyable.
Do the readings, and write 2 or 3 sentences about them so that your final cheat sheet is not difficult to put together.
This course is easy, and you'll hear some great music (and some incredibly *&($^&#& music). However, be aware that the grading system is pretty retarded, and you can get screwed over without realizing it.
This class is much more focused on music history as opposed to music theory.
This class is easy. Don't expect it to be life-changing or capable of giving you the background in classical music you never had. But it is really easy.
Fun class! I always looked forward to lectures. Professor Massey is a great lecturer. Take good notes in class so you can use them to make the one page cheat sheets allowed on the tests.
The class is a lot of fun.  It's a great addition to a stressful schedule.
Fantastic course that really taught me how to be a more aware member of the concert-going public.
GREAT CLASS!! You learn a lot about music history in an extremely painless way
Interesting core class with a relatively light workload.
This is one of the best classes offered at Harvard.
An excellent introduction to Western music since Beethoven.
Don't let the grade/challenge daunt you, this class is AMAZING and one of the most useful classes I've ever taken.
Great course but be prepared to put more work into it than any other core. It takes a while to listen to and learn all the music!
A wonderful class; an excellent of how the lecture-based teaching method can succeed brilliantly.
It is a fantastic course, but your experience can be mediated depending on what section you get.
good class if you are interested in music
Quite a lot of work for a core.
It's a lot of fun to listen to this music.
Fabulous course, fabulous introduction to music from early romantic to the present, and a fabulous professor.  Terrible written assignments; vague, and open to completely subjective grading.
If you like music, especially Classical music, this is the perfect course for you. I took this class to gain an appreciation for Classical music, which I did to some extent, but instead of appreciation, I felt more inadequate than anything else. It's difficult when you have such a varying spread of musicality, but it was a definite problem for me.
The things you learn are great, lecture is very enjoyable, and I think it's the kind of class where what you learn stays with you for a long time afterward.  But I do think it needs to iron out a few kinks in terms of organization, making expectations clearer and making sure it really is fair to students with less of a background in formal music analysis before I could fully recommend it because I did often find it unnecessarily stressful.
Fantastic!
Amazing!!! This is a must-take class.
The course is great and you really learn a lot, but it definitely requires work throughout the semester. We were always have small written assignments, listeing quizzes, etc. Also, I would encourag them to keep up with the listening.
This really is fantastic course -- all small issues aside.  It was so refreshing to listen to quality music as course work, and it kept me sane for much of this semester.  It's an enriching course that is a great way to fulfill a L&A Core requirement, and I had a great time in lecture, section, and listening to classical music for class preparation.  It is a huge class, however, and I found sections a little difficult -- mainly because of the attitude of people in the section, though.  The class is confusing in that I'm not sure who really takes it -- it seems widely varied, and some with much experience created a kind of stifling section environment.
It is difficult, especially for those without a musical background, but so engaging and educational (ESPECIALLY for those without a musical background) that the difficulty is worth it.
My favorite aspect of this course was watching Professor Gallagher play piano during lecture.
This is a great course for someone who wants a broad overview of the important composers and events in the past 200 years.
A great course to audit or take pass/fail.
It's not easy, and there is a good amount of work. But if you put in the effort, you'll get a lot out of it.
Go to lecture! Don't miss out on it; not only is it very helpful for the exams and quizzes and papers, but it's also the best part about the course. Gallagher is an *amazing* lecturer. It's not just a gut class; you actually have to study for the quizzes and tests. That said, the studying is sooo much fun, so go for it! Meet with your TF if you need more guidance; they are very helpful and knowledgeable, and doing so really helped improve my *listening* skills. Enjoy!
It's harder than it seems, but is worth it.
If you go to every lecture and do all of the listening assignments, you'll enjoy this course enormously!  But if you fall behind, it will just be a burden and you'll stress out over the listening quizzes.
I never thought I would take this class but it ended up as one of the better ones I took at Harvard.  A friend dragged me to the first lecture during shopping period and I was completely sold by Professor Gallagher - I could not imagine a better lecturer!  This course truly deserves the 4.9 it got last year - what an excellent professor!
Great class--all I could have wanted from a music survey
You will learn about music, but the class will probably be harder than you expect.
The lectures are amazing and the class is generally satisfying. Great way to do a core.
Without previous music experience this class is rather difficult to do well in
It is a fun, but challenging class.
I would tell prospective students that the lectures are amazing, but to look out for the papers if you don't know music theory.
It was a good overall course. Decently easy if you already have musical background. A not-too-painful Lit-B core.
I would tell students who want to take a challenging course and learn a lot about music that this would be a great class for them.  I would warn them that it is difficult and is especially difficult for those with little musical aptitude or experience.
Very talented professor.  Very enjoyable.  Allows you to better appreciate "classical" music.
The course is a good introduction to classical music and a good way to fulfill a Lit and Arts B core. The first two-thirds are significantly stronger than the last third, but in general I would suggest that if one is willing to listen to some unpleasant modern music, the course will be quite enjoyable.
Keep up with listening when possible.
It's an interesting class, and you should really try to discover the world of classical music because it's really enjoyable. However, don't expect a good grade because there's a lot of people in the class who already know all the material and are music experts; these are the people who will do well in the class.
This class is not a breeze.
The class becomes more difficult once you get past Stravinsky.
I would tell future students that the class rekindled my interest and appreciation for past western music. They will thoroughly enjoy learning about a variety of different pieces, some they may like and others they may dislike.
Unless sections are more organized and standardized, lecture, although interesting and informative, seems wasted since there is little relation.
Wait till they get that old TF back (I shopped Music 1A, and the TF they had for that was brilliant.  He knew what the fuck he was doing.  I really try to repress this memory, though, because spending time thinking about the parallel world in which Music 1B teaches you how to analyze music in addition to exposing  you to great music and letting you hear the professor's wonderful lectures if just too painful.)
Great music in this class.
Great lectures, not-so-great sections. Tests are not really centered on the lectures. Exams are all about memorizing tiny details about pieces.
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard!!! It is fun, dynamic, interesting, and will be useful outside of college.
As long as you're willing to work for it, you will learn a ton. But don't let the mellifluous chords of Prof. Gallaghers voice beguile, you will have to work for it.
harder than what appears on the Q guide
Stay on top of the regular listening.
interesting, painless way to fulfill a Core
if you don't like the subject matter, the course is not going to change it. instructor is boring and monotonous.
It is very interesting but is challenging.
It is not easy, but very much worth it.
The lectures are inspiring and will enhance any passion for classical music.
The course is stimulating, thoroughly enjoyable, and provides exposure to a subject that most students don't encounter elsewhere at Harvard.
Be prepared to work hard, but it's worth it.
Take it! If you're not a hard-core musician already, it will change the way you think about music.
Do not take this class if you already know a great deal because you will be bored.  I feel this class is best aimed at student with a moderate/low understanding of classical music.
THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST CLASSES AT HARVARD. Sean Gallagher is a God among men and you should definitely definitely take it. It has changed the way I hear the world and given me a lifelong appreciation of music. Even if you aren't taken with it the way I am, the lectures are great. The one thing is that it will take a while at first to get used to doing listening the right way and writing papers on music, so your first quiz and short paper (which don't count for much) may have bad grades.
It is an excellent introduction to Western art music of the last two centuries, with fantastic listening, and excellent lectures.  Getting a chance to see Sean Gallagher lecture is worth it in itself.
Great lectures. Lots of fun
I think that this presents a great introduction to music, although it is more work than first anticipated.
If you actually love Classical music, and know something about it, then stay away.
be sure to stay awake in lecture!
It's worth the struggle.
One of the best Harvard courses I've taken!  It allows for a much deeper understanding of music than one could ever gain alone.
This course is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
Definitely a good introduction to western music.
one of the best classes i've taken at harvard. gallagher is wonderful
That Music 1b is a fair amount of work, but the music listening/appreciation skills you take away from the class make it worthwhile.
It is very hard.  Interesting, but graded and tested very hard.
Please take this class.  Especially if you are the guys who live next to me and it will stop you from listening to Ludacris for 20 seconds each week.
Both easy and interesting.
Amazing class but too much work.
The lectures are great; there is quite a bit of work, particularly if you'd like to keep up with all of the listening and do well.
The class is large and unwieldy.  You should take it pass/fail and then just listen to the music you like and not try too hard on the assignments.  That might make the course much more fun.
It is a good class, but it also demanding.  You have to keep up on the listening requirements to do well.
Be sure to have the ability of taking something that resembles nothing and finding an artistic and intelligent interpretation.
one of best classes i've taken, incredible professor, amazing music
Listen to the music with an open mind and try not to think whether you like or dislike the music. Being able to connect different pieces not only helps with exams, since you can remember the pieces more easily and come up with more interesting theses for essays, but it was also one of the most rewarding parts of the class. One of the main strengths of the course was that it linked composers together; we didn't just study each composer separately.
Learn to get the hang of the assignments and quizzes early on so that at the end you aren't cramming.
The best class I have taken at Harvard. Take it!!!!!! Or at least audit. It is really incredible.
Yo. Near the end of the class, all that contemporary shit perpetuated my constant use of b/s in essays.
Music 1b is a great introduction to the history of classical music from Beethoven to today and a good way to fulfill a Lit B core. It is interesting, fun, and you'll learn a lot.
The content is interesting, and the lectures are fun, but after the exams you will feel like an idiot.
I though the course was amazing, but I would warn people that the listening exams and quizzes are very difficult.
Lectures were fun and music is great.
Take a lower level section unless you have had a LOT of music background. Consider taking pass/fail... lectures are fantastic but it's just extremely hard to do well if you don't have much formal music background.
Great option for a Lit B (a minefield of a core requirement, in my opinion).  I really enjoyed doing the work for the class, and it wasn't too taxing.  I listen to a lot of the music all the time now because it's so beautiful.
Be prepared, if taking this for a Core, to do a great deal more work than what is normally expected in a Core class. Also, be prepared for a degree of freedom (as in, the TFs are not particularly helpful in directing paper writing or listening assignments)
Take it only if you have prior musical skills.
It's a great course with interesting subject material and an amazing professor, but the workload can be a bit much at times.  Personally, I'd also warn potential takers about the last third of the course where music starts to go a little crazy and is impossible to follow.
Once should take the course if they are strong in listening to music and memorizing it. It is a very hard class if one has not taken music history or learned to listen to music before.
Professor Gallagher is incredible!
this course is a great way to become not only familiarized with classical music and composers but also to understand the motivations and situations that drove composers to create such works. I think it is a wonderful class that requires much individual engagement and dedication from the student but delivers a great amount of knowledge about music.
The course cultivated an appreciation of music, and art in general, that I hope will endure well beyond my years at Harvard. I learned about some of the best works of these two centuries. The course also gave me a new angle on the history of the last two centuries.
It is fairly easy. It wold be an OK core course, and that one should pass/fail if taking it for an elective since it's easy to lose interest at some points.
I would reccommend this class to anyone who enjoys music and wants a good class with a good lecture. I would warn students that the class is, however, a bit of work. It isn't an easy A, but if you want to learn the material, it is worth taking.
Take this class.  Even if you don't think music is that interesting, take it.  Your level of appreciation for all kinds of western music will grow substantially.
It is a lot of work, but the material is interesting
Gallagher is AMAZING!! Never pass up the chance to take a class with him!
Everyone should take a music appreciation course.  It is definitely worth it, even if you are just taking it pass/fail, because the lectures are like going to a concert.
It is more work than you think.
Great class especially if you have absolutely no connection to classical music but want to learn something in a low-pressure situation. If you devote enough time to the course, you will not only gain a great appreciation for the music but also will learn a formidable amount about diverse cultural and historical contexts.
Be prepared for some of the most thrilling lectures you'll ever hear at Harvard.  This course, particularly the first half, should be a requirement for all educated people.  Also, do the listening before class - it makes the lectures even better!
This course is a great way to gain some background knowledge on music and to learn how to think critically about the way music has evolved over the years.  The course requires some thought and if you've never written about music before you'll find it's more difficult than you think. I think this is one of the most fair courses I've ever taken at Harvard- they stick to the syllabus and if you do the (short, pretty harmless and interesting) readings + sit through lecture you'll have everything you need to know for section and for the exams. Matt is an incredible TF!
The course was fairly interesting but a bit dull many times. Work load is not too bad
only take this class if you are VERY interested in the material. i loved the class, but it was also very very poorly run
This class is great! The professor is very enthusiastic, and listening to classical music was a great way to start my day. I felt like it was a very good use of my undergraduate experience in that I learned something that I would never have learned otherwise. It's classes like this that are why I chose to attend a liberal arts university.
If you're interested in the roots of classical music, take this course. It was a great way to fulfill the AI gen. ed. and turned out to be a really fun and interesting experience.
This is a relatively painless class that provides a good survey of classical music in the last 200 years. However, please beware of the music on the syllabus before taking this class. There is no mention of Mahler, or Tchaikovsky, and discussion of Beethoven, Schubert, and Brahms is rushed at best (collectively 2.5 days). If you're looking forward to learning more about any of these composers, prepare to be disappointed.
This class was alright. We were exposed to a lot of great music and it changed how I look at art and music. But at the end of the day the exams were a pain to study for because we had to be able to recognize so many songs that I'm not really sure it was worth it. It wasn't bad, wasn't good.
A lot more work than I expected from a Gen Ed. This class is not easy, and tests actually take a lot of time and effort, but it is definitely worthwhile. If you're a beginner, you will come out of this class really well-versed in music-it's surprisingly comprehensive and incredibly interesting. If you have a music background, this class will be surprisingly informative, especially about more modern music. Take this class if you really want to get to know a subject you've never thought a lot about before!
Warnings about the opera, general description of positive aspects of the class
If you're interested in music and want to appreciate it more, this is definitely the class to take!
This class is fun! It introduced me to all of the composers I had heard of, but never really had known anything about. It explains the major musical trends in Western music from the last two centuries. The homework is easy - it's mostly listening to music and reading a few articles about its composition and the historical situation it came out of. So this class should interest historians as well as people who enjoy classical music. I came into this class knowing hardly anything about classical music, and I had a great time. It is targeted at music aficionados as well as newcomers like me.
This class requires learning and being able to identify quite a bit of music. It is not a lot of writing and analysis of music but you do learn a lot and if you put in the time to listen then it will be worth it.
I recommend this class to anyone interested in learning more about Western music post-Beethoven.  While exams are tricky to study for (lots of music to cover for listening sections), the rest of the course isn't too demanding, and section is really well taught.
I really enjoyed this class.  It's a great way to be exposed to a lot of music, especially if you aren't very familiar with classical music.  Having a musical background probably helps, but it's not necessary.  Matt and Micah, the TFs, are really great too.  One thing to be wary of is that this is not a straight classical music class--we did a lot of weird modernist stuff too.  I liked learning about some of the more New Age stuff, but it definitely doesn't appeal to everyone.
I went into this course without a strong music background (not HRO, haven't played an instrument in a while. still can read scores though) and still found this course doable. That being said, because the listening quizzes are more difficult than they seem, you should REALLY listen to them multiple times before you take the quiz/test. Music 1b requires quite a bit of work, but it was still immensely enjoyable.
Great! If you don't know much about classical music, take this course! I learned a lot and it's relatively laid-back too!
This class requires regular, very short readings and a fair amount of studying before exams, but it is not overall a difficult class. The important thing is appreciating the music, and the teaching staff is not out to trick you.
Super enjoyable class - really exposed to lots of different types of music. Only issue is that there is just TOO MUCH LISTENING to study on for the quizzes/exams. Hopefully they'll cut some of it down because otherwise the class is relatively painless.
This course is a great introduction to some of the most important music ever composed.  I will believe that it will increase a student's appreciation of this music.
Great class, interesting subject matter. Work load is minimal but requires listening to the music and lecture is helpful in learning what facts about the different pieces will most likely make it onto the tests. Music lovers and non-music lovers will both find this class interesting and an introduction to many new styles or pieces.
The course is a relatively painless way to get the AI gened done. That said, it isn't taught particularly well and there's a lot of busy work (i.e. memorizing opus and work number for each piece for the exams). Additionally, the course covers a lot of really bad and unknown composers, such as Pauline Oliveros, Kurt Weill, John Cage, and a lot of other modern garbage.
Even as a somewhat experienced classical musician, I felt that I still got something from the course.  Professor Edwards was a good lecturer, and seemed to really care about the students, and my section leader (Matt) was great as well!
Having a music background will enhance your understanding and appreciation of music presented in the course.
If you want something easy that will put you to sleep regularly, by all means, take Music 1b. I took it only because I had a tough schedule (logistics-wise) this semester and figured it would be a decent way to knock out a gened, but I didn't enjoy the experience even slightly. All in all, a complete waste of time.
This class is awesome if you want to get some exposure to music. I was taking the midterm for this class, and I ended up actually really enjoying it because I was so amazed at how much I had learned in just half of a semester. I think that speaks to how cool this class can be if you put in the time to really listen and understand the music.
Great class, not a lot of work
This class was awesome! Doing the listening and the homework was actually enjoyable and I used it as a break from my other classes. Super manageable. You'll learn a ton about the different genres and shifts in music over time.
This is a fun, interesting class especially for someone who has little or no background in music or music history. As long as you keep up with listening, you will be fine. And definitely do attend lectures as they often include guest performers!
The class definitely is interesting and provided me with a great overview of music history. Some of the music is great, other music is strange, but this is part of the fun of learning about different types of music and discovering what you like and dislike. I would caution students that if you are looking for a class that is really easy this is not that - studying music is very different than usual studying and if you've never done it before you may not realize that it takes a lot of time to learn music and be able to do listening identifications. Other than that though, the exams are straightforward and the assignments are not difficult. The professor and teaching staff are wonderful and really helpful!
As someone who loves music I really enjoyed the course material and being exposed to a lot of music I had never heard before.  That said, the lectures aren't the most exciting thing in the world, and gone are the days when the professor would sit down and whip out the most amazing piano performances at Harvard (Professor Edwards used the piano sparingly in lecture).  If you love music, you'll like the course, but it could be improved.
This class can be very interesting, but also is not just an easy class. The midterm and the final required significant preparation in order to do well.
This class is absolutely wonderful!  So much fun and it fosters such a great appreciation for music.
The class component of the course is very boring and times and the testing is done in a ridiculous way. Tests that relied on pure memorization made me feel like I was in middle school again
Pretty much a gem. You listen to some nice music, read 2-3 pages before each lecture, write a couple short essays. It's really not bad, and I don't play an instrument or read music. Also, the TFs are awesome!
A great opportunity to become familiar with a wide range of musical genres. Also a great opportunity to be introduced to opera. Also a great opportunity to contextualize all the names of composers you've probably heard of but never could very well distinguish between.
This is a good class, and it doesn't require much work, but if you don't have a musical background it might end up being rather confusing at points.
Fantastic class and you should definitely consider taking it! It is a different type of thinking that you will not be able to use in most of the other classes at Harvard and definitely refreshing. You do not need any music background to succeed in this class. Professor Edwards is great and gives very interesting lectures.
The class is honestly very stress free and introduces you to great pieces from Beethoven, Rossini, Wagner, Verdi, Dvorak, the Beatles, and more. The papers are short. Class doesn't require a lot of working. Readings aren't necessary.
If you are at least somewhat interested in music, this class would give you break from other classes because you get to listen to music as a study(not reading!), and learning about music history and different kinds of music is fun!!(not that much workload either!)
Its a fun class with not too much work. It helps to have some background in music.
Very great class, gives exposure to a number of important pieces in music.  Hopefully the grading doesn't turn out to be too strict - as that would take away from the enjoyment and purpose of the class - to build a personal interpretation of the music
There are so many genres of music that I know nothing about, and this course introduced me to a lot of new material. The lectures were awesome! A lot of listening, as well as great performances in class. Overall, this class was a winner.
Opened my eyes to a huge range of "classical" pieces that I hadn't previously known about, giving me a skill set which is applicable in real life. This class was satisfying in a tangible way that not many other harvard classes are. The music is interesting and the assignments successfully enforce a deeper understanding of musical history.
Definitely worth it if you grasp the material. Otherwise you will feel like you're endlessly chasing a bunch of music jargon.
This is a great course, that is a great introduction into music history, critical listening, and just general appreciation! It's not a ton of work, and class is really fun because you get to listen to beautiful music and often there are performances during class.
Really interesting material and pretty easy gen ed!
If you know an instrument and if you have basic understanding of music, then this is a great gen ed course. If not--do NOT take this course. I had no musical expertise and even though this class was doable for me, it was so much easier for others. It is an unnecessary headache for those who don't understand music, because you are forced to work much harder and struggle much longer with the exams and information than pretty much every other student in the class. A gem if you know an instrument; a "do not take" if you don't.
Great class. Interesting material, pretty well organized, highly dedicated teaching staff. Not as easy as everyone says but also not too tough. Doing the readings is not necessary if you attend lecture and take notes. Do the listening as early as possible to prep for the exams and you'll be fine!
Music 1b is overall very interesting, very easy, and sometimes quite fun! No musical experience necessary! You will have to listen to and memorize a lot of music though, so be prepared for that. The papers are quick (and sometimes fun) to write for those with musical experience. It's a refreshing class to go to, as you listen to a lot of good music and learn to love it. Even if you get bored with it though, it's still a light workload overall and the questions raised in class and section are interesting enough to keep you going.
Good course to fill AI requirement if you have interest in classical music; it is not so much extensive music history but more like a fun way to learn about different aspects of classical music
This course offers an interesting perspective on the study of music history. It is definitely helpful and almost necessary that one has prior experience with playing or studying music. Exams can be difficult because they require a lot of memorization. The listening ID section is very challenging without considerable studying
Music 1b is a great class! It's a lot of fun, especially if you have played western classical music before or enjoy listening to it.  It does require some diligence in that you have to keep up with the listening, but it's not much at all as long as you do it throughout the course.  Essays aren't too bad, and neither are the tests - it's quite a good way to fulfill your A/I if need be.  Some musical background might help, but it isn't necessary at all.
If you like music, either classical or modern music, you'll enjoy this class. Don't leave all listening till the end.
I loved Music 1b! The class is open to students with any level of musical background. If you do have musical training, I would encourage you to perform in class. It is quite a bit of extra work, but it allows you to gain such a deeper understanding of the pieces! I am very happy I chose to take Music 1a and Music 1b in sequence because we covered all of Western music history in one year. The Music 1b faculty was fantastic! Be prepared to put in a substantial amount of work to keep up with the course readings and listenings- you do not want to fall behind.
This course is a lot more difficult for someone with no music background than it appears to be.  It is also annoying that they will not allow laptops during lecture, and they will not upload lecture slides ahead of time. Combined with no music background, you are likely to be lost during lecture. Listening comprehension is a pain, even if you may prepare hard. John is the best though!
This is a fun class to take. This course gives thorough coverage of music from the Romantic era to the present; I got a better understanding of how to listen to and analyze music, and how music fits into its historical time period. Also, some of the pieces assigned for this course have become some of my favorite pieces to listen to. I highly recommend taking this class!
This is a great class. It is very very low pressure, and you'll do well if you keep up with the listening and put some time into the papers. I would highly recommend it!!!
It's a lot of fun and a great way to satisfy a Gen Ed
TAKE THIS COURSE!!!!!!!!!!!! it was so awesome.
The whole class is about classical music so if you don't enjoy listening to it, don't take it. The listening examples take a long time to internalize so make time for them.
Really interesting class with great material. Prof Edwards is a little dry, but the material he presents and the way he has structured the class makes it a really engaging course. There's more work than I expected (1 midterm, 1 quiz, 1 final, 3 essays, 2 concert reviews), plus lots of readings (not completely necessary). If taking this class for a gen ed, be wary that it does required lots of work to do well in, but you'll get a lot out of it. Don't need a music background, but definitely helps.
I loved going to this class! It was such a nice change from other classes and the discussion sections are really engaging and interactive!
