This is not your typical world music class.  Its purpose is not to introduce you to popular music from different areas around the world, but to make you think of big issues integral to pop music in today's global economy.
This class is great in that you don't just learn about music, but about non-technical ways to think about it. Rather than just worrying about style, structure, etc, you learn to think about production, its effect on peoples, how it's affected by history, etc.
There's a surprising amount of theoretical reading in this course, and for someone not involved in musicology, there can be a lot of "what's the point?" being asked. But overall, it's still an eye-opening course in terms of discovering new music and the issues surrounding it.
It's excellent.
On the whole, the class was interesting. It could've been made better if the conversations had been guided more by the professor.
If you love a type of music, and you want to learn more about it in an academic setting, take this course. If you don't want your favorite type of music to become too academic, don't take this course.
You won't regret taking this class
Take this course if you've ever just listened to country music. Its social situating of the genre and its scholarship was some of the most rewarding work I've done at Harvard.
I wasn't that big of a country music fan before this course besides pre-1989 Taylor Swift and Carrie Underwoodbut I'm super glad that I took this course. It makes a fantastic elective, and the course material is perfect for balancing out a tough schedule. Taking this class has definitely given me a new appreciation for country music, and it has become one of my favorite types of music over the past semester. This class can be considered "easy" because it doesn't feel like work. The assignments are all very fun, and it's a great way to really focus on improving your writing. If country music studies is offered again, TAKE IT!
Take this class if it's the last thing you do! Nowhere else will you be able to find a class about country music taught by such a knowledgeable professor. Really fun, you learn a lot about the best musical genre, and it's incredibly easy. Nothing to lose, everything to gain.
