Prof. Wolff will not require participation -- if his class doesn't participate in the discussion, he will simply lecture.  However, it would be better for the students and the professor if the students participated!!
The class has the potential to be edifying, but only if you're willing to put in the work; otherwise, it's possible that you will learn little throughout the semester.
Take it, you'll fall in love with Mozart and Bach even more than you've ever done before - I don't really ilke Monteverdi all that much (even though I am fully aware that he was an extremely important musical figure and composer)...sorry :P
It's hard to stay engaged and there's no reason to do the readings especially since there are no assignments.
This professor is a great resource and it's a privilege to work with him. If you are at least moderately interested in the seminar topic, take it with him and make sure to take advantage of his presence as a teacher and engage with him one-on-one.
Superb for those who wish to study specific works produced in the 17th and 18th centuries.
If you enjoy the topic, it is a great class. If you want to have any idea what grade you might possibly be getting...not such a good class.
The best of scholars as the professor and the best of music to be studied - what more can you ask?
Be prepared to be bored.
Christoph Wolff is a great resource and accessible!
I recommend only if you are a big fan of Christoph Wolff and/or the specific pieces he is teaching.
A good chance to go into detail on three masterpieces.
Some French reading proficiency will be indispensable.
Evan is great and a really smart guy.  He is great to work with and is always looking out for his students.  Even if you aren't in love with the music of this time period, it is still an interesting class.  Although if you find 17th century music boring then this is probably not the class for you.
If Matthias is teaching it, definitely take it! It's a great opportunity to discuss some really incredible music and develop your own conclusions about it. The relaxed nature of Matthias' teaching style makes the class enjoyable, low-stress, but worthwhile. However be warned that you must be pretty self-motivated to get the most out of the class!
Take this course: you gain a lot of insight about classical string quartets while learning from Matthias, who is an incredibly kind and supportive professor.
If you like Haydn's or Mozart's music even a little bit, take this class! I promise you'll like their music more after finishing this course. In addition to Professor Dolan's amazing and humorous lectures, there is often her home-baked cookies! Those are the best pastries to motivate yourself to go to lecture and participate. Super friendly environment where it's easy to speak up, and best classmates with small number of students. It was definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard!
This class is a breath of fresh air after having taken so many semesters of theory and composition. Both are utilized in this class, of course, but the material allows for more introspection in the ways that the music affects you individually. Even though being called a proseminar, the terminology used in this class is accessible to anyone who's taken 51a/b or the equivalent. I recommend this class! Dr. Dolan is an incredible lecturer, and in a class this small you'll have her almost all to yourself.
Absolutely and without a doubt one of the top two courses I've taken during my four years here. There just really can't be enough said for all the good aspects of this class. Assignments were so creative and open-ended that I almost felt guilty for having so much fun working on them, whether it be making online dating profiles for Mozartean opera characters or constructing a website for the world-famous EDM DJ Haydn. Readings were sometimes on the heavy side but were consistently interesting and well-organized, and the discussions on them that followed the next week were always thought-provoking as well. Professor Dolan is not only a great moderator for these discussions, but simply a wonderful professor overall - very kind, enthusiastic, extremely knowledgeable, and who gently encourages you to share your thoughts. She's also understatedly hilarious and bakes the most amazing cookies.There is a lot of material covered in this course, but you walk out with a solid understanding of Mozart's Da Ponte operas and the period's galant culture as a whole, and to a slightly lesser extent, Haydn's London Symphonies and Creation. The second half of the course focusing on Haydn is pretty ambitious and I felt like it would've been better to spend it all on either the London Symphonies or the Creation, but not both. Another thing that could be improved would be the timing of knowing the assignments for the next week - the readings each week could already be pretty hefty, but then getting only 4-5 days to complete them made them seem even longer. Otherwise, this course is such a gem! I really, really highly recommend taking it if you are at all interested in Haydn and Mozart, and if I had more semesters I'd love to take other courses taught by Prof. Dolan as well.
If you are at all interested in Haydn and Mozart, their lives, their music, or even the historical period in general, this class is a wonderfully enriching experience. Professor Dolan is a delight, and is personally invested in your success in the course and in general - she even bakes you cookies.
If you want to learn to appreciate Haydn's music as well as develop a true understanding and appreciation for Mozart opera, this is the course for you.  It is challenging, fun, exciting, and at the end of the seminar you feel that you are part of a wonderful musical family.
A highly enjoyable seminar on the Mozart Da Ponte Operas and the Haydn London Symphonies (with a coda on The Creation). Extremely well taught, with a reasonable workload and unreasonably beautiful music (though, naturally, you'll get to deconstruct the category of the beautiful in due course).
Professors Gordon and Rehding are such great professors and full of knowledge. There could have been more discussion among the students in guiding the conversation, but it was very interesting to just listen to the two professors talk and occasionally talk among themselves.
This class was phenomenal but make sure you allocate enough time each week for the readings - they can be difficult to get through!
light course load, stimulating in-class discussions, and interesting course material - a must!
