This class will make you re-think Schenker from start to finish. You get a sense of Schenker's history, not just since his death, but as he developed and changed his own theories. You will also get some hardcore graphing experience, so it's a good combination of history/criticism and practical skills. The workload varies, but it was never unreasonable.
This course is a great introduction to Schenker and Schenkerian analysis.  It's a lot of work, but it's material that all music grad students should know, and Suzie does a great job of making it interesting and manageable.
An excellent and fast-paced opportunity to develop confidence in applying Schenkerian analytical methodology combined with a survey of some highlights in the critical literature. Enormously beneficial for students of Schenker at the near-beginner/intermediate level.
very challenging and often perplexing for non-theorists, but stick with it! in addition to learning about a fascinating system of analysis, you'll be challenged to think about music -- and how we hear it -- in very different ways.
Music 222 is a rigorous reading and methods course but incredibly well-taught and worth it! The material is fascinating and Professor Clark is an incredible teacher. Her approach to Schenker is very thorough you look at Schenker from many different perspectives, coming away from the course with a complete picture of Schenkerian theory and practice is analyzing pieces with Schenker's techniques.
An amazing course. This completely changed how I understand classical music. Prof. Schmalfeldt is a great lecturer, and her weekly assignments are so useful. It can be difficult sometimes, but Prof. Schmalfeldt is very supportive.
phenomenal introduction to schenkerian analysis.  prior experience in other approaches (e.g. sonata form) is not necessary but could be quite helpful.
Professor Schmalfeldt distills an incredibly complex theoretical approach into something engaging yet still manageable for a semester-long overview.
