Fed IS my favorite professor on this campus. I have gained an in-depth ability to holistically explore repertoire and I have learned a lot about myself and my own learning style. Fed never fails to challenge and inspire me, and I am thankful to candidly receive that spark from him.
great class if you love music
Fed is wonderful. Spending time like this with Schubert is life-changing. That's all I have to say.
if you are serious about music you ought to take classes with fed
It's a great class that increased my knowledge and passion for music!
This was my favorite class this semester. It's very different from the other music classes I've taken at Harvard so far because it demands you to be rather interdisciplinary. It's interesting to learn how music is born from a composer's ideas that simultaneously interweave with other artistic cultural ideas in their surroundings and interpersonal relationships. This idea is also interesting in the context of performing a piece from this span of repertoire. If you get a sense of who the composer is as a person and complete artist, it helps you to embrace his personal style a little bit more thoroughly. You will be learning a lot in this class so just hang on and try to stay organized!
Fed is a fountain of passion for music that will drench you without drowning you, hopefully. The listening syllabus is brilliant, although the readings sometimes feel both too long and unnecessary for what's discussed in class. 3-hour class meetings are a strain on cognitive endurance, but the variety in performance, listening, and discussion keeps things interesting.
This class is great if you're really interested in understanding how music relates to its time period and to other contemporary movements and phenomena. This is not simply a performance class; if you're looking for a simple performance class, this is not the one for you.
See Question 6
If you are a musician you have to take a course with Fed at some point in your time here. It's not that heavy a workload and you learn so much.
This class is fascinating topic-wise; be sure to do a lot of work preparing for performances/analyses though!
If you would like to learn more about Schoenberg and also the relationship of his work to the text, take this course.  But do be careful that the structure is quite loose.
If you get a chance to take a class that might be as disorganized as this one was, take it. I felt that the focus was shifted from your normal classroom worries (syllabus, assignments, grades) to simply learning. I felt like it was a chance - with many of the usual rules being bent - to engage more directly with the material. Also, Fed and John Hamilton are both talented and the chance to see them figuring stuff out on the fly was valuable.
Extremely disorganized, especially in the beginning. You basically have to understand German or you lose half of the points being made.  Whenever Fed presented, I felt like I was learning a lot - he is far more straight forward and concise - often that translates into looking for a very specific answer - but Professor Hamilton uses a lot of very nice sounding phrases that in the end could be boiled down to one or two sentences and less time wasted.
This course is a wonderful exposure to Italian opera! It is very broad at times but gives you the flexibility to focus on the operas/composers/concepts you find most interesting. Furthermore, you gain a lot of valuable collaborative experience by playing/singing/conducting the music.
If you want to learn about Italian opera, you should take this class. You will be exposed to the entire gamut of Italian opera, from pre-Monteverdi to late Puccini. The rule is this: devote yourself to listening and watching and learning the music, and you will find a passionate and knowledgeable guide in Fed. If you blow off the class, you will have wasted an opportunity. Fed can be blunt as an instructor, and the class could at times seriously lack structure, but the class works when students bring enthusiasm to class and don't wait for the instructor to incite them to it.
Fed is a wonderful professor, and I encourage you to take a class with him. He sets high standards, so don't expect to slack off in the class, but if you put in the work, you'll feel and see the reward. Fed is about the experience and about amassing knowledge, so as long as you clearly commit to the class and try your best, you'll succeed. Fed has so much information to share. This course is, without a doubt, one of the best I've taken in the music department.
This course was a great way to learn about Italian opera. However, the course was somewhat flawed. Fed often complained that people did not take the course seriously and put in the work; I found myself wishing the course was more structured, with a syllabus so I had a clear idea of what the expectations were and what I was supposed to be learning each week.
Fed is absolutely brilliant and you will learn a TON from him - both from his lectures and from his coachings. He tells it like it is, which can sometimes be hard to hear, but it pays off in the end. Beware: this class probably won't have a syllabus. Keep track of what he asks you to do and be proactive or things can get messy.
Fed is such a wonderful lecturer - he has an enormous knowledge and experience with this music that everyone can benefit from. It's also really important work to have a space in your musical education to engage with opera - which is more broadly an art form which expresses storytelling and drama in a way that is important in many levels for society (having broad implications for the other arts like theater, poetry, literature, and many other forms of music), but also important in forming an understanding about how great works are made. I also really enjoyed the collaborative environment of working with my classmates. They are all incredible musicians, and I'm so happy that I got the opportunity to work with them.
Do not go into this class expecting it to be easy. To get the most out of it, you have to work and do the outside readings/listening assignments. It is well worth it in the end. I learned so much this semester and I owe my understanding of opera to this class.
