This class has been the most creatively engaging, exhaustingly exhilarating, and gratifying experience I have had in college. I really feel like I was able to grow in this class and that I got something special out of it, particularly as someone who has felt distanced from music many times in the past three years. The process was so challenging and ultimately so rewarding. No other class I have taken at Harvard has helped me grow as an artist and as a person as much as this class did. The class will only have this effect on you, though, if you dedicate time and energy to it. Only take this class if you are ready to spend 8hours a week (or six hours if you are already good at Protools) recording sounds from objects or the field and manipulating them and composing pieces. It will be worth it.
best creative experience i have ever had at harvard. must-take for anyone interested in enlightening your musical mind.
I mean you have to.
BEST CLASS AT HARVARD!!!! Take this class if you are interested in electroacoustic music even a little bit, even if you don't have a strong background in music. This course will change your view towards any kind of music, and after taking this class you'll probably realize how easily you could make those "cool" sounds in pop music by just knowing how to use one software. I enjoyed this class so much and I already miss Hans, Marek and my classmates.
This class is excellent and will challenge your notions of what music is. I had never listened to an electro-acoustic composition before this class, but the course does a great job of exposing you to the major works in the genre and explaining the techniques that were used to create them. Hans is a phenomenal composer and teacher, and a surprisingly warm and approachable person. Marek was an excellent TF, very committed to the class's needs. Even if I never create a piece in this genre  again, I'm sure that it made me better as a composer and improved my ear tremendously.
It has not only changed the way I think about music and composition, but also fundamentally altered how I perceive and listen. I loved every minute.
167 is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. Hans and Marek are incredibly talented composers, but more than that, they are incredibly gifted teachers who have a knack for picking up on how students can improve and helping them do so. To get much from the course though, you have to spend A LOT of time on it per week, but for me this was more than worth the experience.
It's kind of a weird class and the stuff I learned I will most likely never use again (i.e. Pro Tools or AudioSculpt), unless I go into music production.  However, it made me think about sound in a different way, and obviously sound is a very integral part of our lives.  Personally, I just really dislike the electroacoustic music and think it's often creepy/weird/nonsensical, but it's "interesting."
Is nice!
It's a wonderful class that greatly expanded my musical horizons.
It was one of the best classes I have ever taken.  It was excellent.  If you are interested in electronic music you would be crazy not to take this course.  The studios are tremendous and you will learn a ton.  I almost always enjoyed working on my assignments.
The only caveat is that the class spends most of its time dedicated to examining one very particular sub-field of music. If you don't like this kind of music, the class could become tiresome.
Use the time in the studio! Harvard has some really nice equipment and software that is hard to access otherwise.
This might be one of the most difficult courses I've taken at Harvard, but it was also one of the best.  I learned a lot every single day of the class and both the professor and my classmates challenged my understanding of music.  Besides the fascinating conversations, the classes and projects are a lot of fun (even if electronic music isn't your cup of tea) and Hans is great.
This is a great composition class. Composing a static electronic piece poses interesting challenges: although you can instantly hear what you have while you're composing, it's also more difficult to imagine what the final performance will sound like, especially in this class, where you're composing a stereo piece for live diffusion across 40 speakers in Paine hall.
This class is very rewarding.  It requires much more work than you would think.
This is a fantastic class with a fantastic teacher. It is certainly a lot of work, but so much more rewarding than the electronics classes many of my composer friends at conservatory have to put up with. Save it until when you'll have enough time for it!
This class was very time consuming some weeks, especially during the second half of the semester, but was one of the best classes I have taken, and one of the most rewarding too.
Come with an open mind and you'll gain many new perspectives on sound and music, and how to put them together. Great teaching too.
Very fun and creative class. you learn a lot and are shocked at what you were able to produce
You'll learn how to use Protools, Audiosculpt and other software, and you'll listen to some fascinating pieces that outline the growth of electroacoustic music, but more than that you'll find yourself looking hard at what sound is and what music is in this class. Hans is a truly insightful, experienced, and knowledgeable artist and it's a privilege to be taught by him. The work may get frustrating at times and you need to be prepared to put in a fair amount of time and energy but you will come out of this class feeling like you've gone out on a limb and created a piece of art.
If you're even reading these comments, you should take this class.  You'll spend hours and hours and hours in the studio, but it's incredibly worthwhile.  You learn amazing things about the way sound can be edited, manipulated, treated and mistreated, and it's all hands-on.  The final project is a composition that's played through a massive sound diffusion system--think surround sound, but with up to 32 loudspeakers.
Excellent course if you put in the hours and appreciate the subject matter.
I would take this course again every semester if I could.
You'll be really proud by the end of the semester, but be wary that this class is a HUGE time commitment, especially during reading period (about 10-12 hours of set up, rehearsing, performances, etc.)
find a personal way to express your own sound world
This course requires a lot of time in general, and at times can be frustrating because the time you put in is not necessarily reflected in the music you produce. BUT, it is definitely unlike most courses offered at Harvard.  Professor Tutschku is awesome and is a refreshing departure from other Harvard professors.
This class is a very big time commitment, but it is also very rewarding.  Not only will you learn very interesting things about electroacoustic music history and composition and the technology used, but you will explore concepts of expression and perception, how to convey ideas, etc.  The class will alter the way you listen to the world.  The creation and performance of your own piece at the HYDRA concert is very rewarding.
It's a good class but not for everybody
This class will teach you how to analyze music and listen to everything in a given track.  You will listen to music differently.  This class is extremely rewarding.
A great course, really unique and much more engaging/rigorous/worthwhile than most other courses at Harvard. An opportunity to immerse yourself in a totally new type of thinking and creating. But be prepared to work hard!
Take it! You will love it and you will learn something you can find nowhere else at Harvard.
It changed the way I listen and helped me appreciate what's involved in the creative process of art. As many past participants have said, the more time you put in the more you get out of it, but you have to put in a lot of time in anyway. Be ready spend some weekend nights in the studio and ask for extensions on all your final papers. The concert is worth it, though; it was one of the coolest Harvard experience I've had.
This is a truly great class, providing those who take it with the tools, understanding, and ability required to write music concrete and to work deeply with sound, crafting it, placing it in a space, and juxtaposing different parts of it in a piece through heavy use of pro tools and other software. It definitely requires an open mind, as many people might not consider what we make in this class to be music, but regardless of whether or not it is music, it is an interesting form of art, and as long as you can appreciate it for what it is instead of becoming annoyed at it for what it isn't, you should deeply enjoy and get a lot from this class.
Do as much of your work in advance as possible -- always bring something (even if rough) to class; the feedback one gets is invaluable.
This was by far the most novel class I've taken. To put it simply, my mind was blown every single class period, because we learned how to manipulate sound via very powerful software. I'd never thought of music as sound, or sound as story, and the final project was a difficult, engaging piece of work I had to grapple with. You're crafting in this course. You're not just learning and spitting something out, but rather you're expected to work REALLY hard and produce something dependent on the amount and quality of time you spend outside of class. You're definitely going to spend at least 7 hours a week outside of this class, whether that be in the studio (using world-class equipment) or recording sounds around campus and manipulating it.
Take this course if you are very interested in sound production techniques. The music you make, however, must have no harmony, rhythm, or melody in the style of other music.
This class allows one to understand sound and music in a totally new way and thus changes the way one perceives music and the sounds they encounter in their world.  The skills learned in this class allow one to really appreciate and understand what it means to shape a sound.
This is the best music course I have taken. It will open you up to a new dimension of musicality - form, rhythm, harmony that are much more objective and independent of our preconceived western notions of music. Take this course; you won't regret it.
You need to put in a lot of time in the studio each week.  If you can manage the amount of time it takes it an extremely worthwhile class.  It's one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
It teaches you to listen differently.
If you are at all interested in the qualities of sound itself, composition in general, music-oriented technology, or anything else along those lines this course is fantastic. There's a decent probability that you may never do anything else like it again, but the knowledge you will gain can easily be applied to so many other areas of music and technology. Additionally, the course is extraordinarily intimate. It's one of those courses that everyone becomes close over the semester since they are all working together and there are so few of you. Hands down one of, if not, the best courses I have ever taken.
This semester, five people were enrolled in the class, and this intimate setting proved ideal. Even if more people are signed up, I would highly recommend taking this class nonetheless. There is no other course quite like this at Harvard, and it is an experience you should not miss. Electroacoustic music has had a tremendous influence on music in the last 60 years, but few people are familiar with how it is actually produced. This course teaches you how to create electoacoustic works, while also exposing you to the fascinating tradition of electroacoustic art music. If you take this course, you will have the opportunity to create a piece which is played in concert (through 40+ speakers)--something you will likely not be offered again for years. Most importantly, by taking this course you will learn an entirely new mode of listening to, and appreciating, sound.
Don't expect it to be anything like tonal music. And it does actually take time outside of class to do recordings and work in the studio. It's cool to develop an entirely different language for music though.
one of the best classes I've ever had, a solid and accessible introduction to composition and electronic/electroacoustic music composition
One of the shining stars of the music department.
Music167r will be, for nearly all students, an opportunity to experience and learn about something new. Not only does the course introduce the student to a new type of music, it introduces a whole new way of thinking about music as well. If you're interested in expanding your musical boundaries, take this course.
Hans is a character and a good one- he is incredibly knowledgeable and does crazy things with sound. Final concert is an awesome semester-culminating event
This course was immensely rewarding and enjoyable, and opened a realm of new sonic possibilities to me even though I had heard some of this type of work before.
Hans is an incredible instructor and composer and it is an incredible opportunity to engage music and composition regardless of what your primary discipline is.
this class, while very fun, takes a lot of time. don't fall behind. you will definitely learn a ton
This is an amazing class. Don't necessarily worry about having a strong background in music/theory (I can't even read music and I got a lot out of the class) just be willing to put in a lot of time in the studio and to keep your ears open.
I would strongly recommend but with an equally strong disclaimer about the workload. If you take your work seriously, this class can easily take up over 20hrs a week. I often spent more.
I would say what I said earlier--Not only did it teach me useful things about software and hardware, but it completely changed the way I listen to music, as well as the world around me.  I've never had this much fun in a course--at the same time, I don't think I've ever learned this much (in so many different areas) in only one semester.
Hans and Edgar are great tools so utilize them efficiently!
This class is mind-blowing. Like. Seriously. Take. It. Please.It is one of the few classes here at Harvard that has completely changed my perspective on a particular subject in this case, on listening to and creating music, and appreciating even the most minute sounds commonly ignored on a day to day basis. I never knew that walking around in the world could be such a glorious experience,especially (but not necessarily) when donning a pair of headphones and walking around with a microphone.For those that already have background with electroacoustic music, depending on the year, this class will teach you additional skills like how to work with MaxMSP to expand your technical skillset. For those that have no background, learning how to use software like ProTools will be helpful if you're want to be involved in any sort of audio engineering in the future.The assignments do take quite a bit of time, but don't let that discourage you in any way. The work is worth every bit of time you put into it, and is quite fun, so the hours pass by enjoyable and quickly!
It's a very interesting course. Very non-traditional music, but you learn to appreciate it in it's own right.
If you are interested in experimental music, particularly electronics, you should DEFINITELY take this class.  If you know who Pierre Schaeffer, Xenakis, Terry Riley, Alvin Lucier, etc those sorts of people are, this class will be right up your alley.  You will have access to an AMAZING studio (two actually), you'll get to compose multi-channel music, you'll work with Max/MSP (which is pretty amazing) - just do this.  If you are reading the description for this course, chances are you are the sort of person who will like it.  Aaron was an awesome professor, but he was only guest teaching it for a year.  If Josiah comes back to TF again, you are in luck, the man is a max/msp wizard!
This class provides access to a wealth of electroacoustic compositional resources. At times, lectures feel either too slow or too fast, depending on whether you come into the class with a programming background or a desire to learn the nuts and bolts of a program like Max. Although relatively unbalanced in this regard, I don't regret taking the class, having come away with some practical skills (ProTools) and more insight into what can be done with electronics and music.
A fun break from book learning.
This is an amazing class for shaping the way you think about creating music.
The most interesting and engaging course I've taken at Harvard.  I looked forward to lecture and section each week, and feel like I've taken a lot away from it.  Even though I do not necessarily plan to become an electroacoustic composer, I feel like the things this class teaches are very relevant in many other ways.
A refreshing course. For me, it was a serious creative outlet and it was great to get credit for it.
Take this class if you want to have your mind stretched and your creativity challenged.
there's a lot of work (mostly studio projects) but it's worth it.
utterly fantastic. but you know this already, i am sure...
If you're one of the lucky few that has the opportunity to take this course, do it without hesitation. This is by far one of the top few most interesting and impactful courses I've taken during my time here. I remember reading comments before I took it on how the class changes the way you listen to and perceive sounds in every day life after, and it's completely true. I am so happy there are classes like this at Harvard. It is pretty esoteric, but it allows you to be creative in a capacity that you probably won't get the opportunity to (Harvard's electroacoustic studio has some realllllly nice software and resources) while still being very rigorous, critical, and methodical along the way. Hans and Chris are a fantastic teaching team. Hans is so knowledgable about everything you could want to know about electroacoustic music (and music in general). The course might seem intimidating the first day you shop it and are crammed into the studio with 30 other hopeful students who are all trying to make insightful comments to impress, but don't think that that's going to be the vibe the whole semester! It becomes a really tight knit and supportive community.
You will learn how to work in a studio. Almost each week we learned a new way to shape sound. The class was very efficiently run and had very few technical or logistical bumps. Hans had many insights about the sounds we created which were very constructive. Whenever we forgot how to do something technical, Chris was right there to help. The final concert was a nice way to culminate the class. It was very cool to hear our compositions through the 42-speaker system and share the experience with friends.
This is a fantastic course that achieves something unique at Harvard: it is technical and applied, but also aesthetic and liberal-artsy.  You will most likely think about sound in a new way afterward.  You will go into the scientific details about how sound works and is made, and also discuss in depth the less tangible aspects of timbre that need to be considered when composing this kind of music.  The course is very open ended, and you can record and edit pretty much any sounds you want.  You get valuable experience with recording and working with DAWs and other software.  The final performance on the 40-speaker system in Paine Hall is a totally unique sonic experience.  Hans is great; he expects the best out of you and does not accept any bs, but isnt too tough.  Chris is a great TF if you are lucky enough to have him.  As the syllabus says, dont underestimate the time commitment; its significantly less than the workload of most CS and math classes Ive taken, but is significantly more than the other music classes Ive taken.
Great way to get your feet wet with electroacoustic composition. The class is intimate and the assignments are all helpful ways to work up to your final project. By the time of the final projects, there is a lot of creative freedom in the class.
I am so glad that I had the opportunity to take this amazing and challenging class with such brilliant and supportive faculty. Professor Tutschku is a master teacher who knows his craft superbly, yet also understands the nuances of giving critique - how to convey helpful and honest information for both encouragement and criticism that truly serves as a springboard to help students improve. our TF Chris is a lifesaver - super attentive and always makes sure the students have what they need (technical knowledge/understanding, organization of time) in order to work - as well as being thoroughly knowledgable in his own right. The nature of the classes are structured with a not-too-long lecture (on topics related to composing the music and technical knowledge needed to create it as well as present developments), followed by review/discussion of the listening from the syllabus, and taking an hour or so for group workshop sessions on the past week's assignments or final upcoming composition processes. The most memorable aspect of the class for me was these group workshop sessions, which were beautifully facilitated and thus participated in with remarkable insight. Every student had the opportunity to present/share their work with the class as well as provide feedback to their peers who presented. Every student also got individual feedback live from the professor after feedback from their peer classmates. The work of listening openly and honestly to each other's ideas, and cultivating this attitude in giving and receiving feedback helped create a class culture of respect and thoroughness, which really encouraged my learning. I had a wonderful experience in this class, I thought all of my peers were brilliant, as well as my professor and TF and I felt lucky to go to class every week. I feel like I worked on developing my voice by making music that I didn't know I could make, and I am so grateful for this opportunity to work on that aspect of myself.
This is an incredible course. It won't be what you expect, and that's usually a good thing. If you think you'll be making "electronic music," you're probably not quite right. This is Stockhausen, not Skrillex, so it'd be worth it to understand a little bit what you're getting into before you jump in. That being said, I believe electroacoustic music is a genre anyone can learn to appreciate, and I do think there couldn't be a better way to do so than to take this class.
