Collegium is a great choral family on campus that I wholeheartedly recommend to anyone interested in singing with a great group of students. And it's an extracurricular activity you can get course credit for!
Collegium is the best decision I have made at Harvard. If you are looking for the choral COMMUNITY and classroom experience that will change how you interact with singing, this is the place for you. There is no other place to delve into your passion for choral music than with this SATB choir. Andy Clark is phenomenal -- you won't make another connection with a Harvard faculty member that's like the one you make with him.
Joining Collegium is one of the best decisions I have ever made. The nicest people on campus, singing phenomenal works at such a high level - what more could you ask for?
Collegium is fab. If you already know that you love singing choral music, or if you're looking to see what it's like to sing with a large group, definitely give it a shot because the music is great (and diverse !!!!), and the community is incredibly supportive and fun.
For the past two years, Collegium has been my home on campus. I cannot recommend it highly enough. I will never forget our performance of the b minor mass this year.
Welcoming, supportive community. Extremely talented instructors and singers. High level of commitment among entire group. What's not to like--come sing!
If you're looking for a way to hone or maintain your classical singing skills, this is a great way to do it. Also, the choir provides students with subsidized voice lessons, which helps a lot.
Amazing community! Best decision I made at Harvard!
Joining collegium was the best decision I made this year by far. Fantastic group of people, wonderful teachers, and a great way to unwind and spend time singing each week.
Collegium is the best class I have taken at Harvard. It says quite a lot that most members stay in Collegium for all four years of their Harvard career if they enter as a freshman. Our projects are transformative in so many ways, and my skills as a singer have improved tremendously since I first began.
Join Collegium! You get to make amazing music with people who will become your best friends.
Collegium is an absolutely incredible group of musicians that I cannot imagine my Harvard experience without. I am so grateful to have joined this group and have the opportunity to sing with them for the years to come. The music that we sing has been transformative, and I have received so much support in my musical growth with this group.
Collegium is a great community to belong to, and all of our performance experiences have been very meaningful.
It's the best thing I've done in college
It is a very very time-intensive course, but the people are lovely and you'll love it if you put enough into it.
Collegium is a fantastic musical group to be a part of on campus, plus you get class credit for it! The community is outstanding, the conductors are great, and the projects we do are varied and exciting. If you like to sing, Collegium could be the defining factor of your college experience!
Collegium is the absolute best community on campus! Such a tight-knit and loving group of people.
Collegium is the best thing I have ever done at Harvard. We sing diverse and challenging repertoire, and have some amazing performance opportunities. We are also a tight-knit social community  I made a lot of my best friends in college through Collegium. Andy and Kira are wonderful to sing for, and rehearsal is always the highlight of my week!
