Be prepared to participate in discussions.
Be ready to hold your own in a complex, theory-heavy, work-intensive environment, but know your opinions will consistently be respected and explored.
This class can be so many things.  It can be an introduction into ethnomusicology, or an advanced in depth study of a particular area.  It can be a chance to learn, to contribute, or to explore over and over.  The topic of musical communities is both focused and broad, exploratory and established.  Working with Professor Shelemay may be one of the most eye-opening experiences of your music training as well.
Great opportunity to develop technical skills in addition to thinking through issues in pop music pedagogy.
This course offers an incredibly unique and creative perspective on the field of musicology. It revolves around Wayne's philosophy of "technomusicology," which asserts that musicological claims are best expressed through audiovisual compositions, as opposed to academic papers. The assignments for this course explore the potential of different formats -- like DJ mixes, video mashups, and soundscapes -- to communicate ideas about popular music. These assignments, which were mostly produced in Ableton Live, were an absolute blast to put together. The final project offers an opportunity to delve deeply into a particular genre or topic through the production of a podcast. I came in hoping for a fun music production class, and left with a completely transformed perspective on the relationship between popular music, technology, and society.
A great introduction to alternative scholarship/pedagogical approaches.
This course is phenomenal. I cannot stress enough how unique, fun, and impactful this course is, ESPECIALLY in a department that is lacking (but improving) in the category of modern/popular music. Wayne is the bomb, and I learned way more about the music we all listen to that I ever thought I would. And being able to produce music as an assignment is like heaven, especially if you're into that stuff already. You might find you pour hours into each assignment, but it'll be worth it cause it's just so FUN.
This is a great course! As someone who wants to try pursuing music as a career, it was super useful since it was my first introduction to music making software like Ableton. The readings and discussions are super interesting, the workload is very little, grading is very easy, Professor Marshall is a really chill and awesome lecturer, and assignments are super fun. Would 110% recommend if it's being taught by Wayne again!
this is a rare opportunity that one has to have multimedia experience both in learning and in portfolio development with a really enthusiastic professor.
