It's a lot of fun if you're interested in opera. The lectures are great and really tie a lot of things together that you may have learned in other classes.
Fed is awesome and knows an enormous amount about opera and art in general.  The class is a great was to look at music and opera from an interdisciplinary perspective
If you enjoy structured classes, then this course is not for you. However, you will learn a lot as a performer and a musician. Overall, this was a fulfilling course, and an enjoyable way to spend thursday afternoons.
Take it. The chance to learn an entire opera in-depth is unique. Most conservatories don't offer something this comprehensive, and almost none of the rest of Harvard's classes don't offer something this performance-centered.
This class is unique at Harvard.  It combines performance and musicology in a meaningful and stimulating way.  It's time consuming and can be overwhelming, but I feel like I've grown greatly as a both a performer and appreciator of music in my two years in this class.
This class takes a lot of effort but it's worth it.  Only take it if you are prepared to spend hours with the music and possibly with a language you don't know.  Fed's expectations are high but not impossibly so.  Once you have done all the necessary work and figured out the way to learn that best suits you then it becomes a tremendously fun and rewarding class.
The class is a good way to gain exposure to Mozart's operas, and also a good performance opportunity. Do not expect, however, that the course will be in any way organized or structured.
Fed is a wonderful teacher.  He is so full of energy and makes you love the subject matter you are studying.  Class is very intense and fast paced so prepare yourself!
Take it, but be prepared for Fed to presume a knowledge of Mozart's life and world that you might not have.
learn your music!
Despite its problems I loved this class.  The combination of talented and invested students with a super enthusiastic professor was often fantastic.  That said, there were major problems.  The overall trajectory/purpose of the course was always a little unclear, and this led to quite a bit of wasted time in class.
I'd say that it's unique and that it's a vital experience for anyone who wants to go into opera. But do not go in expecting it to be easy! This course challenges in ways that most Harvard courses don't.
