I took this class as a schedule balancer and as a way to get to know the music faculty. It is good for both. Music 189 was overall enjoyable. Your experience may depend somewhat on the coach you get, though.
Great class if you want to find a way to keep playing but might not have the time to invest in joining an orchestra/taking private lessons, etc. I've taken this course three times, and enjoyed it immensely each time. Also, Heng-Jin is the best!
The Parker Quartet breathes fresh air into this course, providing a ton of rehearsal and performance insights while being great chamber coaches.
As always, a fun way to learn chamber music on campus
Choose a group of people you like.
Be sure that if you come with a pre-formed group, you actually mesh and get along well together, and are of similar levels. Otherwise, it may not seem worth your time.
This has been one of my favorite courses at Harvard and I strongly recommend this to any musicians.  It's not a high time commitment but you can get very helpful coachings, and the coaches are all great.
Great course -- the coachings are wonderful, and it's a lot of fun with a group you like playing chamber music with!
I was really glad to have taken this class, and especially to become good friends with my quintet members as we rehearsed for the class, and outside of class.
Music 189 is probably the best musical experience you can get at Harvard as a classical musician. There's something to be said for participating in orchestras and playing in various shows, but it's really something else to work seriously on a piece for an entire semester with a like-minded group of musicians. Of course, you get to work with the Parker Quartet and Heng Jin as well, which is an experience not to be missed.
Strongly strongly recommend this class.  Fun and you learn a ton about music...this course is a luxury to have.
It's difficult to find music performance options that also give course credit, so this class fills a very desirable niche. Students are given a lot of freedom in the course to choose their own repertoire, rehearse/engage with other members of their group, and interpret the music. Two caveats: 1) While the quality of coaches is top-notch (Parker Quartet and Heng-Jin Park of the Boston Trio), quality of coaching varies widely. The particular instrument of your coach determines their ability to evaluate your individual playing (Heng-Jin can say less about strings than she can about piano, and vice versa for the Parkers), and some of the coaches (particularly in the Parker Quartet) give almost metaphorical advice that might inform their own playing, but is difficult to apply for many students. 2) This course is for quite an advanced level of student - many students have pre-college degrees, are joint enrolled at the NEC, and/or are music concentrators. While this is exciting and edifying, if your level of playing is not as advanced or you don't wish to spend the time to bring your playing up to the level of your peers, this class could be a bit stressful.
Music 189 is great! You get course credit for playing chamber music, which is awesome.  One word of advice: only take this if you are proficient at your instrument and you're capable of focusing on one piece for a whole semester.  If you can do that, you'll have a great experience.
If you have a great chamber group, then this course will be fantastic. The faculty are incredible.
This class is a low-key way to perform chamber music with your friends and get coaching from high-quality professionals in a non-competitive environment.
