Good course for experienced musicians/performers who never before took the time to learn all the supporting details of music theory.
Try for Mike's section regardless of experience level.
It's fun, it's relatively easy (especially if you have a good ear and pay attention), and the homework doesn't even feel like homework.  Thus, it's everything Music 51 isn't.  Plus, above all, it counts for the core, so it's a good way to fulfill a requirement without feeling like you're wasting your time.
Dont take it unless you have a lot of experience with music
It's a fun way to fulfill a core requirement if you have any interest or experience in music.
There's a decent amount of work concerning the various rules and terminologies of tonal music.
"in previous years this has been a blow-off, arts-and-crafts class; this semester it definitely was not.  hopefully after they read the Q responses they'll make the final project a lot shorter.  all of the learning is done in section and the material is relatively fun to learn - if you're interested in music theory but haven't learned it yet, this is the course for you."
Go over your intervals on your own!
Great class!  (That was helpful, no?)
Shop this course, but only take it if you like both the professor and the TF. You need to be able to learn from both of them, or else you will have a wretched experience.
this was my favorite class that ive taken at harvard (and this is my senior year). i thought the material was excellent, the teaching staff was great, and it was overall a very enjoyable experience.
Do not take this course unless the professor and/or the material has been changed.
I really enjoyed this class; it was a fun and not-too-stressful addition to my schedule
Do it if you are interested in the theory surrounding tonal music and some historical commentary. Don't take it if you just enjoy music and are looking for a way to become a better, more skilled musician.
Don't take the course unless you have lots of extra time on your hands.
It's hard work, but incredibly fun and interesting.
This is great for someone who enjoys music and is curious about how to think more "musically" about their own performances.  It is not particularly hard for people who have background in music, and is a good way to satisfy the lit B core, but lectures can be boring... and if you know too much about music theory you might be bored in section too.
A great Lit and Arts B core if you want to really learn technical aspects of music.  However, reservations if you have no experience at all with music theory.
Unless you know absolutely nothing about music theory or you want an easy core class, go somewhere else to learn the aspects of music theory that you are interested in.
It's an awesome deviation from standard academic classes.  It teaches you a lot about a subject not touched in any other setting at Harvard.
If you are interested in music, but not as a concentration, a great way to fulfill Literature and Arts 2 Requirement.
This is an excellent way to fulfill your Lit B core requirement, and would even be worth taking just as an elective.
Chance to explore music interest whether it be theory for composition or theory for playing music
take it if you have an interest in learning musical theory
This class provides a good grounding in ear training and other skills that will contribute to good musicianship. I'd recommend it.
The professor is not fantastic, a lot depends on your TF.
This isn't the most exciting class generally, but you come away from it with a good understanding of music theory, so take it if you are really interesting. Consider other theory classes here though too.
It is incredible. I love music and have a lot of inherent theory knowledge (as in, there are a lot of things I understand musically that I didn't know by name), but this class really helped take me to the next level in terms of musical understanding. It's really helped me to understand my songwriting and composition better which makes the process a lot easier!
A refreshing journey through tonal music. You'll start from home base (no/minimal background), modulate through the chords, ahem, homework that Music 2 assigns you, and end where you were to begin with, only with a great deal of knowledge about common practice tonality. Music 2 is one of the best classes at Harvard, and has been for a few years-- definitely take it if you are even remotely interested in music.
Though I had very high expectations for this class and lotteried twice for it, having heard very good reviews, I was ultimately extremely disappointed. It is not for everyone, because those with more knowledge are probably bored and those with less very confused and left behind, especially in terms of the composition projects. The class really should be re-thought with regard to what its goals are, what it wants its students to come away knowing, how they can best learn that, and whether it can really be taken by anyone, because the class has so much potential but does not carry through for all students, and it does not market itself as a composition class though that is what it is. Exam credit is all or nothing, and assignments do not always seem sufficient for understanding the material for the compositions. However, Professor Beaudoin is extremely engaging, committed, and knowledgeable, makes a point of learning every student's name, and is incredibly approachable, so if you are interested and willing to take the time make a point of meeting with him because he is a really incredible, intelligent faculty member. The live performances are also really great. Your expectations or understanding of the class may not be what they at first appear to be so do your research.
Definitely take this class if you have ever thought about trying to compose - the fail-proof formula of tonality will guarantee your piece sounds good! Also, if you have already taken you Aesthetic and Interpretive requirement, there is a good change that you are not going to get into this class since there are a limited number of spots and people know that it is good. Also, this class is going to make you wish there were more lectures.
take this class!!! Music 2 was by far my favorite class this semester. Prof. Beaudoin's lectures were funny, smart, and memorable. He brings in live performances and recordings of everything from bluegrass to pop to classical to show the broad range of tonal (and atonal) music. The assignments were never boring and you leave feeling like you've mastered some of the foundations of music theory.
A well-taught, well-run course.  Professor Beaudoin is simultaneously hilarious and brilliant.  Composing is no quick task, and I sometimes found myself at the piano for hours. Creativity, while encouraged, is only a small part of the grading rubric.
Give time to the composition projects
Incredible class. You learn a lot, it is taught brilliantly, and you definitely take a lot away from it.
This is a really great and easy way to fulfill AIU even without any music background. Make sure you get Trevor as your TF. He is amazing and very knowledgeable, so he explains all the concepts very well. If they have Olivia back as a TF, make sure you avoid her. According to my roommate's experience with her, she was a nightmare for not teaching them anything.
GREAT CLASS. Beadoin is amazing and a great lecturer. It really helps you understand tonal music and get a start with composition.
I enrolled in this course initially because I thought it would be a simple, painless gened.  And while it was certainly painless, it was also one of my favorite classes that I've ever taken at Harvard.  The material is really engaging, and that coupled with Professor Beaudoin's insane enthusiasm and the absolutely brilliant section leaders truly makes this course one of the best the College offers.  The assignments are more than painless, they are incredibly enjoyable.   With all the craziness that is college life, it was really great to be able to sit back, relax, and enjoy the compositional process for a few hours each week.  If you can, definitely take this.
This class is so fun and easy!  Beaudoin is really funny and earnest - this class is doable for any one at any level.  I am a performer, I never composed or analyzed music before this class, and I thought the assignments were pretty fun (more challenging at the end of the class, of course) and took a reasonable amount of time for a gen-ed.  I recommend this class to anyone looking for a fun and painless AIU.
Do it! You will never regret taking this class, simply impossible.
An interesting and laid-back class that is well organized - a great way to fulfill the GenEd requirement.
If you truly have no musical experience, you will be put at a disadvantage
Having a background in piano is extremely helpful for the class. The course staff is amazing, and although the course is easy, it can be challenging if you want it to be.
AWESOME class.  One of the best I've taken at Harvard.  Beaudoin is the Malan of the Music department - makes composing entertaining, approachable, and utterly cool.  If you get the opportunity, I'd save the gen ed category for this class!
It's not as easy as it 's billed to be. The theory can be a bit confusing if you're new to music. However, it's still a great course.
If you already know a lot about music, this class will probably be easy for you, and you should think about taking a harder music class.  If this is your first introduction to music, you should DEFINITELY take the class.  I knew next to nothing about music coming in, and this class helped me to be somewhat proficient in discussing technical music, and I learned so much, maybe more than in any other class, by composing.  It was a different kind of learning assignment than you usually get at Harvard, and it was a breath of fresh air.
Take this course!  Or if you can't lottery in, try to take this course now so that you'll have a better shot next year.
This is by far THE BEST CLASS I have ever taken at Harvard.  If you have taken music theory before in high school, don't take this course. You'll probably find it too slow.  If you have never taken music theory before and have no experience in music, TAKE THIS COURSE! You'll be taught the basics in a very accessible way.  It's very rewarding to learn music theory and then demonstrate your understanding by composing your very own piece of music!  If you have musical experience (from playing an instrument, especially a classical instrument) but have never taken a formal music theory class, TAKE THIS COURSE!  You'll be able to understand all types of music in greater depth (in addition to teaching the basics, the staff also whet the appetite of students who are more advanced) and you'll get a chance to compose your own pieces!  Professor Beaudoin is also a very passionate, funny and awesome lecturer, and he definitely makes the course worthwhile.
not much work, interesting, and beaudoin is awesome.  is certainly somewhat tough for people with no music background, don't let anyone tell you otherwise, but still manageable and interesting
Professor Beaudoin is a really awesome guy and a very engaging lecturer. The course really gave me a lot of practical skills in music theory that are now so ingrained in my head that they have become second-nature to me. This is a testament to how well this course is taught and structured. I honestly enjoyed being in this class and had a lot of fun writing my own compositions. Do yourself a favor and take this class before you graduate if you have any interest at all in music!
unbelievable class. professor is unbelievable - get to know him!
Its a great way to get your gen ed requirement. Enjoyable, not too much work, if you are not too intense of a musician, its great to get to learn about something completely differet - you're not doing psets or writing papers, you are writing music.
AMAZING. I genuinely enjoyed going to class every week, and it was great for me personally to have a class that was so fundamentally different from the other classes I was taking. It was challenging, but in a wonderful way - it stretched me to think in different ways and create something so different from the work I do in other classes. The teaching staff is brilliant and supportive and funny and overall, absolutely wonderful, and the material is really fun to learn. I learned so much in this class and feel like a much more informed music-listener! I don't consider myself a terribly creative person so I was initially hesitant to take a class where I would be expected to compose actual music, but these assignments were very well structured and quite enjoyable to do if you gave yourself the time to do it right. I remember reading in evaluations that you were at a disadvantage if you didn't know how to play piano when it came to composing, but you can download free trials of composition software to help you hear the music as you compose it, so don't let that deter you from taking the class!
If you have music background, you DO NOT WANT TO PASS THIS CLASS UP as an excellent, fun, chill Gen Ed. Professor Beaudoin is excellent in lecture and one of the most amazing professors that I have gotten to know outside of class. My TF Bert (who teaches those of us with a good amount of music background) is also a chill, fantastic and very helpful TF. I have opted to go to his office hours just to chat, instead of going to the (somewhat useless) one for the class that I really should go to (just to make a personal connection with the teaching staff). Since there's a vacuum in Music 1b for an excellent lecturer, I would say this is THE CHOICE Gen-Ed music course, so get your composing on!
BEST CLASS EVER. EXTREMELY manageable and enjoyable workload to compliment a hard Harvard schedule.
This class is excellent for people of all musical levels.  What's more, Professor Beaudoin is a BAMF.  I would have audited this course just to sit in lecture and try to soak up his wit.
prof beaudin is a fantastic lecturer and you will look forward to weekly lectures. if you are taking this class because you think composing will take less time than writing papers, you are mistaken... I spent way longer on the compositions than I do on papers, but it's SO worth it! if you're not a music concentrator, you will probably not take another course at harvard like this one. even after this course, you will listen to music differently. also, if you think the course only deals with tonality in classical music, you will be pleasantly surprised that prof beaudin and section leaders do a really good job relating tonality to various kinds of music.
It is a very enjoyable, lightweight class that is a good first taste of theory and composition
Take this class, it's a ton of fun. Unless you are in VES, it is hard to be creative in most Harvard classes, and this class is a great outlet for that. Beaudoin is the man, a very energetic and engaging lecturer.
This is a really fun class, and it will help you gain an even greater appreciation for music than you likely had before if you're shopping it. Lectures are AMAZING - professor beaudoin is truly a fantastic teacher. He is smart, engaging, and hilarious, and I learned quite a lot (and gained confidence in my composition skills) while having a really enjoyable time. Best Harvard lectures I've ever attended.
Super fun class where you learn a ton if you don't know the first thing about composing or theories behind music in general
There's a reason this class is so popular. Professor Beaudoin is an extremely kind and interesting guy and taking this course will teach you so much about tonal music in just a short period of time. Definitely has to be one of the best classes out there, and doesn't require much work, but you'll most likely spend lots of time on your compositions because they're enjoyable.
Great lectures - Beaudoin is hilarious. Overall experience varies depending on section leader. Definitely a lot harder if you've never played piano before.
Definitely one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. I took it without any musical background, and though there are people who know quite a bit of music theory beforehand in the class, the exams are very fair and the material is covered at even pace. Learned a lot of musics and compositions are fun.  Course staff also cares a lot about students. Beaudoin and Trevor were awesome.
It's awesome! It's not much work, but you learn a ton (more than anything, you learn to think about music; you go beneath the surface). At the beginning of the semester I didn't know how to read notes on a staff; at the end, I composed a piece of tonal music. That pretty much tells you how great the course is!
This was the perfect course; the workload was just right, the composition projects were a pleasure to do, and I learned a ton about music. I would strongly encourage anyone with the slightest interest in music to take it.
It's a fun, relatively stress free class with a hilarious instructor (if you get Prof. Beaudoin) and all components of the class (section, lecture and the assignments) are fun and each of obvious relevance and benefit to the course.
Music 2 has been the most enjoyable class I've taken. As someone with no previous musical experience, I found the class to be one of few opportunties at Harvard to try something totally new. Most of your time is spent in section, so I can't speak for the other groups, but my TF and section experience were great. The work can be time-consuming but is actually fun as long as you space it out.
This class is the best gen-ed I have taken so far at Harvard. Professor Beaudoin is an extremely engaging lecturer with a lot of attention to detail. If you haven't taken a music class before, this class may change your way of perceiving music.
it's a lot of fun.
Possibly the best way to learn a bit about music theory
It's interesting material, but it's extraordinarily easy to get behind. If you get confused, go to office hours immediately. But the projects are fun!
This class is unbelievably AMAZING!!!!  I've hated almost every class I've taken here, but this course was virtually flawless.  The teaching was incredible, the material was fascinating, the class was impeccably planned/organized/run, the assignments were straightforward (and FUN!), the grading was fair and consistent, and everything else was just perfect.  This has been BY FAR my favorite class at Harvard, and I wasn't even interested in music before.  Do NOT miss your opportunity to take this class... it will recover your faith in Harvard education!!!  Seriously.  It was perfect.
For those with music background, this is THE EASIEST AESTHETIC AND INTERPRETIVE UNDERSTANDING GEN ED YOU COULD POSSIBLY IMAGINE DO YOURSELF A BIG FAVOR AND TAKE IT
best class ever.
Music 2 is an easy class but not a joke class. You learn so much about music and can go from not knowing how to read a single not of sheet music to writing a full composition in one semester. It's great.
This is a great course if you want to learn the basics of tonality.  If you play any musical instrument, this might help you understand the music you play.
It's a good introduction with an engaging professor, and not difficult at all.
Professor Beaudoin is hilarious and smart and clear. Super entertaining plus you learn why you like the music you do. Take it.
Great senior year class: workload is manageable and the assignment are enjoyable. It will make you appreciate music once you understand the fundamentals! It's so worth it to come away with skills that you can continuing using even after the class ends. For example, I intend to keep composing in the future. It does move a little quickly, so keep up in section and use office hours.
Unfortunately, having perfect pitch doesn't really help you in this course, so if you think you're some kind of musical genius because you have it, think again. You probably don't know key signatures or the circle of fifths even. So you need to work just as hard in this class as in any other because it's not about what you might already know.
Music 2 is incredibly fun. The composition assignments are interesting and invigorating, and Beaudoin is a fascinating lecturer - if he's still the course head, this is almost certainly the best way to fulfill Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding for almost anyone with any interest in music (who, I guess, isn't already a music major with 51 under his/her belt), particularly when they wish at some point to play a role in a creative musical process.Having said that, though, a note about grading: this course does not believe in mercy. When they say that they care very little about the musical perfection of your composition, they mean that if you spend a lot of time on that, enough to lose time you could spend checking the technical aspects of the composition or pure theory parts of your assignment, your grade will suffer. Case in point (and I admit that I say this at least half angry at myself for not paying enough attention): I worked my butt off on the compositions, and I knew my stuff, as was reflected in my exam scores; but I doubt either will be reflected in my final course grade.
Excellent class for aspiring musicians and music-enthusiasts of all levels.
By far one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Professor Beaudoin explains concepts very well, and lectures are always a treat to attend. This was a wonderful way to fulfill a gen ed, and is probably one of the only classes I'll remember years from now.
great class for a gen ed if you are at all interested in music
Professor Beaudoin witty humor is alone reason enough to take this class. If this is your first music theory and comp class, you see how far you will have come in your final composition project. I was more proud of my final composition project than anything else I accomplished this semester because in the end I created something that sounded beautiful despite starting off in the beginning of the semester with no musical background or talent.
If you're lucky enough to get into this class, congratulations! (Don't fulfill your A&I gen-ed with anything other than this class or you'll be essentially ineligible to take it!) The lectures are sensational, your section is personalized to your prior knowledge of music, the composition assignments are extremely fun and unlike anything I have had to do in college so far, and the course material is relevant to each and every day of my life. I feel really thankful that I was able to take Music 2 with Professor Beaudoin.
Music 2 is wonderful. Take it. Please.
You should take this class if you're interested in learning about music. Don't worry if you don't have a background in music, you can still take the course. But you'll have to work more.
Absolutely fantastic course, can't think of a better way to satisfy A&I. Very manageable, interesting material, and amazing lectures.
This is such an AMAZING class! Everything about it -- the material, the teaching, and even the assignments (I know, right?). This is the probably the best and most fun way to fulfill the Aesthetic/Interpretive requirement. Also a great elective if you want to learn about tonal music. A music background is helpful but by no means necessary to do well and enjoy the amazingness of this course!
If you have any interest in music whatsoever, regardless of whether or not you are a performing classical musician or a casual listener to popular music, this class is amazing. It can be difficult to get into, but if you have the chance it is well worth it. Professor Beaudoin is a fantastic teacher, one of the best I've ever had, and the material is taught in an easy to follow fashion. Furthermore, when the class is broken into sections, you are placed with students at similar skill levels, so don't worry if you know nothing about music.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, and Beaudin is one of the best lecturers I've had. Even with my relatively small theory background, I found this class quite easy, to be honest. But extremely enjoyable and with lots of room for creativity.
Professor Beuadoin is a God. If you are looking for a fun and easy course, choose Music 2!
A great survey of basic music theory for both people who play/love music but don't know theory, or those who are complete beginners. Extremely enthusiastic prof, great material, wonderful assignments.
You must take this course!!! It is so much fun and you will be very proud of yourself when you are able to compose a piece of music in just a few short months.
Amazing! Best and most well ORGANIZED class at Harvard! If you are dealing with a lot of flaky professors in a semester, take this class as it will be the highlight of your schedule and give you no headaches.
This class is a rare find in easiness combined with genuine interest that is generated by the class.  It is not just easy, it also instills knowledge and enjoyment in an academically very constructive way, better than courses that strive for difficulty and rigor.
This class is very good for people who want a basic introduction to music theory without having to do boatloads of work.
Great class- best class to do the art and interpretive understanding requirement. Beaudoin is phenomenal and i looked forward to some of the lectures. They really teach you music, even if you have no idea how it works. Good job!
Music 2 = AWESOMENESS
Take this class. Very cool. So much fun.It's not that much work, and the first few weeks are very easy if you have any musical background. The later homework assignments and compositions take a bit more time but it's really fun to write your own music.
A great, solid class. Educational but light to take -- I found it enjoyable. Professor Beaudoin is a well-spoken, cheerful, and polite professor who gives fair exams, delightful assignments, and makes learning about music fun, no matter what level of musical background you have.
Great class! The professor is amazing, and the only points you'll miss are from stupid mistakes.Also, they tend to lottery the class and give preference to people who need the course to satisfy a gen ed/ core requirement. DO NOT take a Lit B or Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding course before this class. If you do, you won't get lotteried in!
My favorite class so far at Harvard. Professor Beaudoin was incredibly engaging and the sectioning system ensures that you learn at an appropriate pace.
THIS WAS THE BEST CLASS I'VE TAKEN AT HARVARD! Professor Beaudoin is amazing, funny, passionate, and he cares about how his students do in the class. Best way to fulfill the AIU gen-ed. Whether you have 10 years of music experience or no experience, you'll learn a ton and be composing by the end of the class. Not too much work, very manageable and enjoyable.
This class is amazing.  The professor is incredibly enthusiastic about the material and you learn so much about music.  It's a great feeling to perform your compositions and realize by the end of the semester that you have created an actual piece of music.
The lectures are great!  Funny, interesting, and educational.
Professor Beaudoin is the best professor I have ever had here. He knows exactly how to explain music in a way that connects with students and makes understanding music both easy and enjoyable. The course doesn't have much work, yet you learn so much. You will leave the course with a new appreciation for music as well as faith in Harvard professors. Unlike many professors here, Professor Beaudoin and his staff dedicate their time to actually teaching. Helping students learn is their number one priority, rather than research or something else. In addition, every time I leave Professor Beaudoin's office hours, I feel so much more confident in my abilities as a student of Music 2 as well as a musical theorist in general. If you are interested in music at all, take this course! I cannot emphasize how much this course rocks!
It's that rare breed of class that is both easy and fascinating. Much more material is taught than is actually tested, so you still learn a lot without having to stress about it.
This class was a ton of fun and I learned a ton! Take it!
Take this class if you want to gain the ability to compose simple tone music and you're starting from nothing.  If you have a lot of music experience, you should probably take a more advanced course.  This class sort of assumes you can play the piano, but you can probably just use software to hear your composition if you can't.This class is an absolute pleasure - the lectures are engaging, and the projects are a joy.All important course material is presented in lecture; the textbook isn't very helpful.  You should finish a draft of your composition early so you can go over it with your TF and the professor.  Exams are intentionally straightforward.
This class is amazing. Professor Beaudoin is incredible. Take this class.
If you're into music, you probably know everything in this course.  You can take it if you really want to take a course that you spend no time on, but you won't really get anything out of it, other than a fulfilled GenEd.  If you AREN'T into music, it should be a great introduction for you.
With this class, you get out what you put in.  You have the potential to learn quite a bit.
This is a good class, especially if you've always wanted to learn music theory or composition. Prof. Beaudoin is an engaging lecturer
A painless and easy way to fulfill aesthetic and interpretive understanding while really enjoying a class. A must-take class for anyone interested in music.
This is a really fun and painless way to complete the Lit and Arts B core. Professor Beaudoin is an amazing lecturer! The assignments are all short, but I found myself spending large amounts of time on them just because they were fun and I wanted to make them perfect!
This course is both good and bad. The material is very interesting and useful, but it often vacillates quite heavily between easy material and very difficult material. I won't look at music the same way again after this course, which is cool. My most important piece of advice for people considering this course is either know how to play the piano or be willing to work very very hard on your composition projects. Because Music 51 doesn't fulfill the core/GEN.ED, many students who SHOULD be in that course end up taking Music 2 to meet that requirement and therefore are far too experienced for an introductory course. Playing the piano is a very 'Harvard' thing and so many students could play. This allowed them to easily compose music because they can play both voices at once and therefore can quickly test if their composition sounds good / if they made mistakes. If you don't have this background, be prepared to work hard on those projects to make up for this.
Although it is definitely a class you can take without any music background, I would recommend being familiar with piano.
Why would you fulfill your Core or Gen Ed with anything other than this course? Don't take a class where you listen to music and talk about how it makes you feels. Take this class, where you learn why it makes you feel the way it does. This is a truly beautiful class.
This is such an incredible class, especially for musicians and former musicians who are rusty on their theory. You'll never have this much fun with any other class. Take it, especially if you're interested in basic music composition. It's also just a great course for anyone who wants a slightly better understanding of the music they hear everyday.
if you've a good amount of music background but would like to take the class (perhaps for a core/gen-ed), go to office hours -- Professor Beaudoin and your TF will know a lot and can definitely satiate your curiosities.
It's amazing. Period.
For those with many years of experience in music (I can't speak for other groups), this is a relatively easy Gen Ed course and a worthwhile one at that.  Though the first few weeks are spent re-learning how to read music, the course does quickly dive into more interesting aspects of composition.
Great class to take as a Gen Ed. I would say that a little bit of music background will make it easier for you.  Interesting and fun.
If you love music but have never taken a theory class, this is the perfect course to take.
If you don't like writing or reading, this is a great and painless way to fulfill the Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding requirement. Make sure to always go to lecture and pay attention in section.
Excellent class.  Highly recommended to everyone, regardless of music background
If you want to learn music theory, take this class. The material is great and Prof. Beaudoin is amazing.
If Professor Beaudoin is coordinating this course, you will no doubt come out with a new understanding and enthusiasm for hearing music theory at work in all kinds of music.
If you are interested in gaining an understanding of some of the most fundamental underlying concepts in music, take this course. Professor Beaudoin possesses a rare command of and enthusiasm for his subject, and his energy is infectious. The assignments are unconventional and fascinating, and after the course, you will be capable of doing things, musically, that you never would have been able to do prior to the course.
Lectures are interesting and concise, you know exactly what you will be tested on, and the professor is awesome
Professor Beaudoin is Amazing!
This class is GREAT! Even if you have absolutely no experience you can take this class (I didn't even know how to read music)
Professor Beaudoin is the best professor I've had at Harvard.  A true Renaissance man, he often employs analogies between music and biology, computer science, etymology, and other unrelated fields to enhance and elucidate his explanations of concepts.  I would take any class that he might offer in the future...he was that superb.  In terms of the class itself, there are five homework assignments, two compositions and two exams.  They're all straightforward, totally doable, graded fairly, and, in retrospect, really fun.  After having taken this class, I'm now familiar with the objects and concepts of beat, rhythm, meter, staffs, time-signatures, pitches, chords, major and minor scales, triads, inversions, authentic/plagal/half/deceptive cadences, pivot chords, modulation, arpeggiation, syncopation, Sonatas, and many, many others that I can't produce off the top of my head right now.  You'll never be able to listen to or look at music in quite the same way again (in a good way), and you'll be able to dissect mildly complex pieces of music with ease by the course's end.  You'll also be pleasantly surprised, maybe even delighted, when you look back and see how far you've come.  No music background is necessary at all.  Overall I'd say it was quite painless, I learned a ton and fulfilled a requirement, and even made some cool friends through this class.  It felt more like an extra-curricular than an actual class.
Fantastic way to complete a Core/GenEd. Professor Beaudoin is fantastic. You just want to sit down and listen to him talk for hours. Go to his office hours!
Absolutely take this class.  It's so amazing!  Definitely my favorite class so far at Harvard.  And I'm saying that despite the fact that my section (which is 2/3 of the class time) was horrible.  The class was good enough overall to make up for that!  And lots of people have great sections.
It's a wonderful course even if you think you know about music.  There is always more to discover and working your imagination to create your own pieces is so valuable.
Awesome course...not only was it a great was to fulfill A&I gen ed, it was the one class I actually wanted to go to.
I loved this class! I would definitely recommend because it is so fun! This class is mostly section based, so the value of the class is definitely dependent on your section leader and Derek was amazing which made the class very very enjoyable!
Netzer micromanages the students. Also Derek David is proud and annoying. Avoid him if you can. He's not a Harvard grad students, so he doesn't know the culture at Harvard.
While the material is interesting, too much of the course structure is reminiscent of middle school--most of the time I spent on the course was busywork of actually handwriting music. In 2015, we should no longer have to do so much with physical copies of paper and should no longer have to worry about penmanship.
If you have no or very little music background, this is a great course to get you up-to-speed with theory enough that you can leave knowing how to appreciate music in an analytical and active way. Music sounds better, trust me.
This is a really good introduction to music theory. It teaches you the basics of composition techniques like voice leading, and is very accessible to people with little musical background.
A great class if you have a good TF and are placed into the section fitting your experience! I was in Bill's section and everyone had significant music theory background, but I still learned a lot, albeit mostly outside of Prof. Netzer's established curriculum.
It's easy but you won't learn much.  Pick up an AP Music Theory book and you'll learn tons more.
A great class! You will get exposure to many fundamental ideas in writing music, how to create and resolve tension as an artistic form. The lectures and sections are quite fun, and musical compositions certainly beat essays any day. It *does* help to have some musical background coming into the course (e.g., what notes are in the A major triad?), as that'll make concepts a bit quicker to click, but it's certainly not necessary. All in all, a fun and interesting way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement - I highly recommend!
Make sure you have a similar level (if not a little higher) of music background as the other students in your section.
Music 2 is a fun course that provides a strong background in music theory.  The course is highly tractable for those without any prior musical experience, but it is somewhat of a CS50 of music in the sense that it does become quite time intensive when you start to compose and perform.  That being said, while the class does have a few other shortcomings such as a rather juvenile attendance policy, overall it was a very rewarding and interesting experience.
Great class, easy way to fulfill AI if you want to avoid papers. Interest in music is necessary otherwise might be a little boring
This is a great course if you don't have a lot of experience with music theory and want to get a hold of the basics. Sections are divided based on prior knowledge, so the learning experience is unique for people in different sections. This keeps the course engaging yet comprehensible for people with different musical backgrounds,
Most of what you learn you learn in section.  I felt that lectures were not helpful, but attendance is logged so you kind of have to go anyway.
Professor Netzer is really enthusiastic! Take this class; you won't regret it!
This is both a super-easy and super-fun class.
Great class! Bill is a fantastic TF, and really made each section something I looked forward to. Lectures were also a lot of fun -- we listened to a lot of different excerpts, ranging from popular culture music to classical.
This course is really awesome.  If you come into the course knowing little about music (say, how to read music and nothing else), it will be somewhat difficult.  The more you come in knowing (the more piano knowledge, the better), the easier you will find it.  Prof. Netzer is engaging and interesting, and most of the TFs are extremely knowledgeable and helpful.  Not a write-off in the slightest, but a nice way to satisfy AI and get some really gratifying knowledge about why music is the way it is, how to analyze music, and how to compose music.
if you wanat to learn basic music theory, this class teaches it well.
This class in taught in a really unique way. I have absolutely no music theory knowledge and it was really hard for me. The lecture does not really go into detail at all, so if you want a lot out of the class you must put in a ton of time outside of lecture (again, this is provided you have no prior knowledge, like me). The sections are fun because you talk about other things besides music from lecture and readings, but you do not cover class material. So again, if you want the most from this class you must do the readings and put in a lot of time outside of class.
TAKE THIS CLASS. If you don't know music theory, you will learn a ton of interesting stuff about the music we consume every day. If you already have a background in music theory, you still won't be bored! Prof Netzer manages to put in something for everyone, so even if you're knowledgeable in the subject, there's still a lot of interesting new information to learn. The creative projects are fun, too. Overall a very fun and low-stress class, especially if you're going in with previous knowledge. Take this if you want to balance your schedule!
Great class for those interested in music (or even if you're not but are curious to learn). Composing your own songs is really cool. Nice, chill class for being creative while learning at the same time.
A great study of listening to and composing music, and a great overall account of music in general.
To master the concepts requires a large amount of work and repetition. There is a vast amount of theory introduced throughout the semester, and it can be a challenge to balance.
This class is all about music theory and composing, and it is fantastic! You learn about and get create music for a class, if that interests you--then you are will enjoy the class.
-
Great to learn how to read music and getting the fundamentals for you to learn or do music later on, even on your own.
It's harder a little bit if you are a freshman and end up in the quad while taking this class. However, it is still a pleasure.
I would not recommend this class for an absolute beginner to music theory or to someone who is not currently playing an instrument or singing in some form or fashion. If you want to spend a fair amount of time arranging individual office hours to understand things that were incoherently taught in lecture and rushed over in section, then this is  the class for you.  The course is not taught in an accessible manner, and the instructor is largely out of touch with what it means to be a beginner to this stuff. I'm not sure why people who are completely new to theory are given the same assignments and judged on the same scale as people who have never done theory before.If you're one of the majority of the people who doesn't fit into the category above, take this class. I'm sure it'll be easy and you'll breeze through it. If you're not, save yourself the pain.
I would recommend it with enthusiasm solely for my TF, Derek David. I am sure the material is fine and Professor Netzer is nice enough, but he made the experience.
This is a great course! You learn the basic foundations behind much of the music we hear around us today. The course instructors say you do not need any musical background to take this course, but I would highly recommend at least some experience with music before taking Music 2. Otherwise, it will not be an easier Gen Ed that some students may be looking for. The courseload is very manageable, and the staff are incredibly helpful in terms of giving students advice for the creative projects. The take-home final is also nice.
Music 2 is a great way to fulfill your AIU: the weekly assignments and creative projects are a nice break from an otherwise heavy pset courseload and sections are really fun! Most of the class is taught in section, though, so your experience in Music 2 will be heavily dependent on the TF you get.
I really enjoyed Music 2! Take this class if you're new to music and music theory or if you've played an instrument but have never had formal music theory training. The class meets twice in section, which is divided by level, so nothing will be too hard or too easy. Lecture is also very interesting, and Dr. Netzer does a good job of explaining theory in several different context. She often includes "treats" that make lecture relatable and fun. Finally, there are no exams. The major assignments are creative compositions that are fun, informative, and relatable. The takehome final is also very reasonable.
This class is a great introduction to music theory. Among the topics covered are voice leading, chord progression, non-chord tones, and music structure. And all of these things are taught within the context of real music played during class, which keeps the class entertaining.
It's a great way to satisfy a gen ed, very well taught, not too much work either, while still learning and creating something great.
An unbelievably fun course with a minimal time commitment. Had the best sections out of any course I've taken too! With or without a musical background, you end up learning a ton and have fun while doing it too. I can't recommend this course enough.
It is really fun and helps you appreciate music for all the intricacies it has.
This class is very straightforward and the teaching staff definitely knows how to teach. That being said, there are certain TFs who are more inclined to seeing you succeed than some who want to really be a pain in the side about persnickety things.
If you're interested and music and not that great at music theory, this is a fantastic class. Osnat talks about some really interesting concepts that you'll immediately be able to recognize in music that you listen to. It's not much time (only a weekly assignment and 4 creative projects that are each a few hours) and pretty easy, so could definitely be a 5th class. The one problem I had with it were the creative projects, which would more aptly be described as "Uncreative Projects." Don't try to do anything fancy for them, or you'll lose points - just brainlessly follow the instructions for full credit.
This is great class that is ruined by administrative and attitude problems. Try as hard as you can to get a good TF, it's critical to succeeding in this course. I would not have succeeded if it hadn't been for my TF. The professor seems uncomfortable at the front of the class and has a weird policy of not banning electronics, but making passive aggressive remarks about the number of students on their computers. Finally, note that the final is worth 100% of your grade.  If you want an A in the class, you MUST get a 90% on the final exam. Don't let the lackadaisical attitude of the final confuse you, it is in the syllabus. This, in my opinion, is outlandish. Know what you're getting yourself into. You'll learn a lot of really interesting music, but might not have a great experience doing so.
Take this course. ESPECIALLY if you are a beginner who considers yourself musically challenged, if you have any insecurities regarding your musical competency, and if you are looking to grow in this respect, as I did. It certainly isn't the easiest way to fulfill an AIU. But let's be honest, it offers so so so much more than just being able to cross off a Gen Ed requirement off your list. Professor Netzer is a person who really cares about you as a student, and she is pretty darn remarkable. Section leader Derek David honestly made this one of the most memorable courses at Harvard for me. You will NOT regret this. I certainly didn't!
I have never taken a music class or played an instrument and while this inherently made the class harder for me, I still gained a great deal of knowledge. Section made it extremely possible to learn at your own pace and ask questions that really make the material accessible to people who don't feel super comfortable. If you have any interest in music, you should try this class!
Fantastic class - interesting, the professors are great, and it is very fair.
If a student is interested in the subject matter and has patience to really explore the composition and analysis assignments, it would be a valuable experience.
It is a real good class to take.
This is a good course to take if you really want to learn about music. It is a bad course to take if you are just looking to fulfill a Core requirement unless you have some prior knowledge of music theory or extensive experience as a musician.
This class takes time because of the nature of the assignments, but it's really fun.
This course is difficult if you have no background in theory or composition. It involves a lot of composition and ear training.
It does have quite of work involved, but it is a class that's worth it. The class itself is engaging, and it challenges to dance around the edges of the box.
The class was very interesting and also pretty entertaining.
Be prepared to work hard. But it's an interesting course if you really need some basic music theory in the future.
This serves as a good introduction to the course. For those who have a background, you may find this course boring.
This is the best way to fill your Lit and Arts B on campus. It's a very easy course, and is very rewarding as a musician.
I would recommend this class.  It was more work than I thought it would be, but I learned A LOT about music and music theory.  It's a great opportunity to try your hand at some composing and hone some basic ear-training skills.
It is an interesting, easy core class.
If you want to learn how to compose music, take this class! It is a gradual introduction into composition that you can make as complex as you want it to be.
The class was energetic.  The course was also surprisingly time consuming and challenging at times.
In the past, this course has had very high reviews, but it was with another professor. Professor Netzer is really nice, but I didn't find her lectures very helpful, and I don't think I learned a lot in this class. Lectures were definitely accessible, but not much material was covered. Important tips for composing or doing voice leading that we would have to do for homework were not emphasized or mentioned only when someone asked a question in section. I'd say it was a pretty painless way of fulfilling your A&I requirement, and you do get an introduction to music theory. One problem is that music theory can be very easy for one person to pick up, but someone else may have a lot of trouble trying to pick up the system for voice leading, chord progressions, etc. I fell into the latter group, and I still liked this class, but it was definitely frustrating.
Music 2 was a wonderful course. The class was well-paced, the textbook was clear and useful, the four creative projects were quite fun, and sections were a great complement to lectures. Professor Netzer's enthusiasm for the material was contagious, and her lectures were always engaging.
Music 2 is a great introduction to engaging with music on a level beyond instinct and exposes you to commonalities in great works of art that set the students up with tools for creating such works of their own.
This class is really only for people who have NEVER taken theory.
It's a chill, but fun class that's great if you've never taken music theory before.
This class is fun, interesting, and relatively easy (if you put in enough effort and time). Prof. Netzer is a very enthusiastic teacher, and the TFs are excellent!
The class is definitely on the easy side if you have music theory experience. That said, it doesn't make the class any less fun, and if you are experienced you'll be in a section with other experienced people as well, so this is still an excellent option if you are looking to fulfill this gen ed requirement.
Music 2 is a fun and pretty chill way to fulfill the A&I gen ed requirement. Composing tunes is way more fun than, say, writing response papers or doing problem sets -- the work, especially the creative projects, hardly feels like work at all. Osnat was a really cheerful lecturer too. Even if you play music, or have some experience with theory, you definitely still learn a lot, such as some of the history of where all the rules you learn come from, and just getting personalized feedback on creative assignments.
Music II is great for students who like music or enjoyed playing in ensembles, but want to learn more of the theory side. Great course for aspiring composers, or those who want to understand more about how melody/harmony/chords interact.
The materials for this course were well prepared, and a lot of effort has gone into making this course fun and educational, whether you have never studied music before, or you are a seasoned veteran. The section component was especially well taught.
Good course, well taught. Would have been nice to have a bit of experience musically beforehand but I learned a lot.
This class has maybe been my least favorite so far at Harvard.
This is a good class, I assume... if you get a good section leader.Dr. Netzer (the professor) was really cool, put a lot into the lectures (coming up with cool examples from around the world and adding lots of variety), clearly likes the topic and teaching it, and she also really seemed to care about the students.But... Although my section leader was a cool guy, he just wasn't a particularly good teacher and as a result, my experience of this class wasn't great (the class is only 1/3 dr. Netzer).TL;DR--If you're interested in this class, don't sign up until you've been to a section or two... if your section leader is bad, DO NOT take this class.
If you want to learn basic music theory, it's worth taking even with its faults.  If you just want a cool elective, probably not worth the frustrations.  Sections are not divided entirely correctly in terms of ability, so it can be pretty frustrating.  Homework is often and can be tedious, but sometimes it's kind of fun.  The assignments can also be fun, but can also sometimes be frustrating because we don't always learnt the concepts and methods completely before we have to use them.
This course depends a lot on you. If you love music, and want to learn more about it, it's a pretty good course for you to explore. If you play an instrument, and you're taking this class to learn more, it might be easy to slack if it's not your top-priority, because the assignments aren't that hard (but that also depends on your section, because I was placed in the wrong section due to scheduling issues). This course helped me realize I don't want to take more music classes, but it could easily do the opposite, if you're interested. I didn't particularly enjoy this course, but I think a lot of people did.
This is a very easy and fun class if you have any background in music.
If you're the kind of person who's always wanted to deepen your understanding of music through music theory, TAKE THIS COURSE. There are practically no downsides. The lectures are really interesting, and the assignments help you practice the concepts you've learned without being too difficult or time consuming. And the TFs all seem really nice and cool.
This is a great class for people who are interested in music but have not had any (or much) formal theory lessons.
Look up answers on the placement exam to make sure you get a good tf.
Absolutely do not take this mess of a course. It's taught entirely in section, which is terrible because many of the TFs do not know what they are doing (mine couldn't even play piano). The grading is completely arbitrary and harsh, and we spent way too much time doing nitty-gritty figured bass instead of learning about other parts of music theory. STAY AWAY.
If you don't have a heavy music theory background and want to expand your knowledge and understanding of tonal music, take this course. It won't be easy, but that's not the point.
Professor Netzer was energetic and always interesting to listen to, but the course felt unstructured during sections.
Take this class if you think you will enjoy music theory, or if you think you can tolerate it and would prefer not to fulfill your A&I requirement with a class involving a ton of reading. That said, composing takes a surprising amount of time.
Not a lot of work every week. Didn't even open the textbook one time.
Music 2 is a great intro class for those who may play an instrument but have never taken the time to do music theory. A very painless way to do the AIU gen ed. I would recommend taking the placement test at the beginning seriously; don't cheat but also give it your best shot. The section component of this class is very large, so the difficulty level of your section can make or break the class for you.
I think for what it is, this class is fine. I had serious issues with how disorganized the lectures were and how they seemed to jump from topic to topic at points. I took this class in order to better my composing and arranging of contemporary music, but the course focuses on the fundamentals of classical music and rarely addresses contemporary music, so that was a bummer. If my section leader wasn't so awesome, I would have had a much worse experience.
Much more theory and far less actual "exposure" to music than you will expect.
This is a great gen ed. There are sections for people with all sorts of music backgrounds, and you need none to succeed. You'll come out being able to analyze music and thus appreciate it more. You can even compose simple melodies and harmonize them.
The course quality depends a lot on your TF (given that the class is 2 sections, 1 lecture), which is hit or miss. You're not supposed to need any music background, but quite frankly that's not really true (maybe I was just placed in the wrong section). Piano skills are definitely a huge advantage -- half of the people in my section could instantly recognize chords, key signatures, intervals, etc. before it was covered. A few of them had perfect pitch and a lot of piano background so it wasn't clear why they were taking the course at all, but essentially in an uncurved course this is not going to be good news if you're an actual beginner.
Good way to help you understand music! Does a good job of varying the intensity by section based on your initial capability
Really easy way to learn some basic theory. Doesn't go much beyond the basics, but I do find myself better able to interpret music now
This is a wonderful course
If you want to learn music theory and are a beginner or kind of beginner, definitely take this class! It fulfills a gen ed, it's well structured, and you gain a (somewhat) practical skill. As a musician, this course helped me grow a lot.
This course is a fun introduction to music theory.  Not too challenging but also not easy.
Take this course! It's really low stress and fun. I learned so much and never felt like I was drowning in work because assignments were short and straight-forward. As a singer who had no theory background, I'm really glad I took this course and now have a whole new understanding of music.
This class was annoying in that they require section and lecture attendance. As well, the material is not presented that clearly, and standards are not laid out clearly in the beginning of the semester. I felt like I finally understood how to do well in this class the last week of class.
This year the lectures were hard to follow and there wasn't as much freedom on the creative compositions as compared to what friends who took this class in past years experienced.
This was a fantastic and very unique course. As someone with very basic music background coming in, I really grew a lot as I was guided through my first terrifying composition, a lot of singing, and otherwise learning music theory in a very hands-on manner. The flexible nature of the class and sectioning means that the course is very much a good fit for people coming from a variety of music backgrounds. The professor was great, although my section leader was a little unclear at times. Music 2 provides a fun reprieve from the normal array of classes while also leaving you feel like you learned a lot.
Although I learned a fair bit about music theory, this course was not the most engaging nor the best organized.
Take it if you really have no knowledge of music theory. I had some, so I thought the class was super easy and not very interesting.
the course is good. you'll get what you put in.... lotta foreigners on the teaching staff... lotta accents to try to understand
This class was my favorite class of my undergraduate experience. The teaching fellows are awesome, the topic is incredibly interesting, and it is taught so well! Do take this, music experience or no!
Good way to fulfill the AIU requirement if you're quantitatively oriented or paperphobic. Gives you a greater understand and appreciation for music.
I absolutely love music, and it's always been a huge part of my life. My life in music though has always been experiential - that is, I had never had a formal training before in music theory, even though I sing classically and with so many great musicians. I took this course hoping to get a better understanding of the discipline and activity I love so much. I am really glad that I took this course, for it has taught me a lot. But honestly I was expecting a bit of a better experience in the class. I think because of the way it was taught/run, class just wasn't as interesting as it could have been, which is too bad, because it is so wonderful. Section sometimes confused concepts to me because it wasn't so clearly run, and I wish that lecture had been a little more interactive. It shouldn't be a discouraging factor from taking the course, but I do hope that it improves in the future!
This was a good course, though it is highly dependent on the section you are placed in.  Hopefully, the professor standardizes things across sections better next year.
It's a great Gen Ed to take, and you learn a lot about how music works. Definitely a great way to satisfy the AIU requirement if you're at all a musician.
If you're ready for it, you'll learn much more than basic tonal theory. What's great about this course is the deeper, philosophical meaning you get out of lectures and the structural training you get in section. You're assignments, creative project, and ultimately the take-home final focus 90% on the logistical theory you learned in section, rather than the sometimes confusing rhetoric you'll hear in lecture. This is great because it makes the bulk of your assessments objective with a little room for your subjective interpretations of the material.
This is definitely the course for those completely unfamiliar with basic music theory. Professor Netzer is incredibly nice and engaging. Her lectures are very well thought out and entertaining. Don't come into this course expecting to analyze specific composers, time periods, or the like. It's specifically geared to understanding the fundamentals of the tonal system and acquiring skills that can be used to analyze any piece of Western music.
Having played the violin for many years but never taken a music theory class, I really wanted to gain an understanding of basic music theory and learn the tools for composition. While I did accomplish that to a good extent, I was rather disillusioned by the fact that we could never be truly creative. Even the "creative" assignments had very strict guidelines and gave us little room for deviation or individuality; in fact, I oftentimes felt like I was being punished for taking risks, and eventually stopped taking risks altogether to play it safe and save my grade. Other than this disheartening aspect, I found the lectures really fun (Osnat is so funny in a dorky way, and passionate about music!) and learned a lot.
I think that Osnat is a great lecturer, and assignments are pretty fun, but section can be hit or miss.
amazing course! but only take if you have a previous musical background or you will be lost
Netzer is great, but this is a class that revolves largely around section. If you don't like your section, SPEAK UP. Don't sit through a bad section, it really impacts your experience in the class.
I've heard this class has been phenomenal under other teachers. It was terrible this go around. If you want to get into music, I suppose its a must. Hold out till the professor changes.
Everyone who takes this class has a little bit of music experience. It shouldn't be a problem as long as you get a competent TF (which does NOT always happen).
A lot of fun and an excellent overview of music theory.
Be prepared for daily homework and go to lecture!
This class is really cool. it starts to get a bit harder towards the end of the year. but the creative projects are fun. just a little bit of work between worksheets, going to class 3 days a week, and creative projects.
Homework is pretty long and sometimes confusing but lecture and section are great and often times a lot of fun!
This course is a gem. It's an easy one, but you can make it as hard as you want by enrolling in the harder sections and going crazy on the creative projects. I was always excited to go to lecture. The professor is a great lecturer and performer, and the assignments are straightforward and easily manageable.
Great class. very easy, even for someone like me with no prior music experience.
It's quite a lot of work. There's lots of homework. Class is 3 times a week and meets on Friday... The projects can take a lot of time and be stressful. Having to prepare and practice the pieces to perform in section is also a pain. With that said, section is more fun than the typical class. The projects can be somewhat fun. And the grading is fair, so I think that does make up for it.
You definitely get out as much as you put in. The assignments do take time, and if you aren't willing to dedicate yourself to them, you will not enjoy the course. It's cool to see your progress once you near the end of the semester.
This class can be hard if you have zero music background.
This is class is literally the definition of an easy A, and is probably why students get the wrong impression that Harvard has grade inflation and that everything is "easy." Creative Projects are not too easy, and you actually have to understand the material, but the grading scale is tipped wayyyyy in your favor. If you do all of the work on time, the worst grade you can get is probably an A-. Professor Netzer is not exactly a captivating lecturer, as you may notice when shopping the class, but I feel that is due to lecture hall being echo-y and students not having motivation to learn what she is saying because it won't directly affect your grade. Most of your learning will happen in section, which is very helpful. Also, in section we often sing to learn new concepts, but don't be afraid of this; you will never have to sing on your own, and after awhile it actually is kinda cool. Overall I recommend this course as a breath of fresh air from all the other classes here.
This course is a pretty fantastic introduction to music theory. If, like me, you've always wanted to get into music but haven't had a chance yet, take this course! You will learn so much and get the chance to compose a lot of cool things. I will say that the mandatory, twice-a-week sections can get pretty tedious, and sometimes the turnaround on creative projects was ridiculous (assigned on Friday, due on Monday - whaaat?). But the actual coursework was very good--interesting and educational throughout!
It's a good class and not a lot of work. I definitely would recommend to anyone with an interest in music or music theory. It helps to be able to read music but they will teach you if you don't already know.
Chill as any course you'll find and actually interesting.
Music 2 is a fantastic course to take, especially if satisfying a GenEd. It is a class that doesn't take significant amounts of time but at the same time is genuinely interesting. For me, it was a really good non-concentration class to take. I did have some music experience going in, which helped a LOT in terms of having a general feel for/intuition for things that were covered. I can see how the material could, however, be more difficult for someone with less of a background in music (some things that "sound good" make sense for people who have listened to classical music). In general, the course is very practical, without making you memorize anything you could look up online by having a take home and creative projects.
Music 2 is great AI.  It is not too challenging and provides a solid understanding of tonal music.  The more music background you have, the better!
Don't be afraid. Remarkably welcoming to those without significant musical experience, though you'll have a better time if you can already read rhythms to some degree. Will make all the music you hear from now on richer and more enjoyable. It's also easy. Do it do it
Be attentive in section, and work hard on your creative projects!
If you have any musical background, this will be the easiest course you take at Harvard.
You will learn a great deal about music composition over the semester. I would encourage students taking the class to practice what they have learnt on the piano to solidify the understanding of the material.
This course is really helpful if you don't have much knowledge of theory but want to learn enough to understand basic chord progressions in pieces, voice leading, etc. It focuses on tonal music, so mostly American and European music, although some parts of it are applicable to other types of music.
Take this class! Professor Oznat is amazing and you will learn so much about the way music works both structurally and functionally
This class was fun and easy. It's great for an AI gen ed. It was fun to write our own music.
A great overview of music theory. Overall experience is highly dependent on your section, where most of the material is taught.
This is a good way to fulfill the AI get-ed. I took it thinking it would be a very easy course which it is not. It won't be the hardest class on your schedule, but the homeworks can be a real pain. You don't need to have musical experience, but I thought some prior knowledge would have made the class easier. Lecture isn't very good, especially with the clicker questions, but section is very helpful. The projects are pretty easy, you just write music which be warned you then have to perform in your section.
One of the best classes Ive taken at Harvard. You'll finish the class feeling like you really learned a lot, especially if you started as a beginner. Its totally fine to have absolutely no music background as they will teach you everything you need to know in section and you will pick it up quick. Going from zero to composing my own songs and just being much more attentive to musical styles is one of the most amazing takeaways a course can give you. Make sure you get Derek as a TF, he is AMAZING. Sections were a lot of fun, homework wasnt hard, and creative projects were the best part where you really got to learn and experiment.
This class has little workload and covers interesting material (especially if you like classical music), so is a great way to satisfy the A+I requirement.
I really enjoyed Music 2 especially because of my tf Derek.  He would answer emails promptly and was always willing to meet to talk about an assignment or any questions I had from lecture.  He is also a character.  His passion and positive attitude are contagious.
such a fun class
This class is truly what you make of it. Though I can't speak on behalf of those with no musical background, I will say that having played a musical instrument helps tremendously.  This class gives you the flexibility to get as much out of it as you put in. I skated by 70% of this class based on prior knowledge I had just from playing piano (I didn't formally study theory), but had I put in the time to study the lecture notes or read the textbook, I would have learned so so so much more. Instead, I had a very busy semester and needed a class that I didn't need to think about-- compared to orgo which I was taking concurrently, music 2 hardly felt like a class at all. If you have musical background, this class covers a lot of material you would have already known just from playing an instrument (particularly piano). And even if the material is new, it intuitively makes sense and you aren't really tested on it (again, I skated by 70% of this class using just what I knew beforehand). This class was no stress at all and is actually quite enjoyable if you put in just a bit of time every week into doing your creative assignments (which are fun and very painless). Also-- not to say that you won't learn anything if you already have musical background-- while the material will sound familiar, this class will teach you how to apply that knowledge into composition, something I think everyone should be able to learn and take away from this class.
Really good, fun, interesting course. A good Gen Ed, not too much work, a relaxed section. Also you really don't need to have played an instrument to take this course, but you'll find it easier if you have.
It's a great, chill class that can still teach you a lot if you care about learning. Be warned that your experience might vary heavily depending upon your TF (in my case, I thought it was great overall). Make sure you have enough time to take care of the homework assignments and creative projects, none of which is back-breakingly tough. Lecture is informative but dry at times.
Music background helps, and get ready for plenty of busy work.
You will work if you have no music background, but great news is the teaching staff is incredibly supportive so you won't be alone!
Great class - had a lot of fun and learned a lot about music theory and basic rules of compositions. Would recommend if you are interested in music at all!
take it if you like music and are willing to stress about it
Netzer is awesome - the class makes music theory accessible and fun without requiring much work. You'll be composing simple things before you know it.
This class is amazing for people of all levels. It is tailored to really take you to the next level. I really appreciated Dr. Netzer's enthusiasm (and her BEAUTIFUL singing!). My TF, Kai, was also very kind and thoughtful. He would always make sure that we were learning new material and he knew when to challenge us to become better.
This overall was a good course, but for reasons I can't quite put my finger on, I just didn't really enjoy it all that much. I learned a good bit of theory, but a lot of times, the lecture felt way too wish-washy in an attempt to be fun or accessible. Please take this with a grain of salt as this was likely just my personal preference for the course!
This class is a really great way to meet the gen ed requirement. It is a really fun class and you learn a lot about music. I think the class is doable without prior music experience, but it would be helpful. Professor Netzer is fantastic and I am glad I took the class.
Great class! You will get to really understand the musical structures that underlie (almost) everything you listen to, and you can compose your own pieces as well!
just do it
This class is so amazing and was one of the best learning experiences I've ever had at Harvard. I went into the class not even knowing the notes on a treble cleff, and came out with a pretty solid foundation in music theory. Also there's not even much work--the assignments are painless, and the creative projects can actually be pretty fun. Not sure if Derek is teaching again next year, but if he is then TRY TO GET IN HIS SECTION HE'S SO AWESOME.
Great class
Take this course even if you have the slightest interest in music.
Super fun, a little bit heavy workload but you learn a lot.
Best Gen Ed
Gem. Take it. Especially if you have some experience playing instruments (if not, you will be taking this class among some people who did, just beware). Also, lecture isn't recorded and attendance is (usually) measured by clickers, just so you know.
The course was interesting as I went through it, but I felt like I didn't really learn much, and I don't think I'll retain much of the information we went over.
Great course! It does ramp up in the second half so don't fall behind!!
AMAZING COURSE!!! If you like music and want to learn theory, take this course. It has work (around two (four page) assignments a week), but all of the work is very doable and makes a lot of sense. There is so much support in this class, and it is incredible. If you want to take the course, do it. You will enjoy it.
Good intro to theory in a relatively easy, painless manner. The point of this class isn't to assess you hardcore or make things difficult, you just learn, which is nice. Creative projects are pretty fun and interesting, and the assignments are manageable and helpful. Good combination of a stress-free class but also actual learning.
This class is a basic introduction to music theory. If you already play an instrument like piano, the first few weeks will be very easy but you will still learn a lot of new things in the second part of the course. There isn't much work besides worksheets and readings, and the four creative projects are fun opportunities to compose some of your own music. Section is twice a week and goes into more depth on some of the ideas from lecture, which is once a week, although this depends on your TF. Overall, if you play music but know little to nothing about theory, this would be a good Gen Ed class to take.
Such an interesting class!  The lectures were always epic, and they always left you gaping in awe of how awesome music is and how baller Prof. Beaudoin is.  TAKE IT.
This course is not too difficult, but Professor Beaudoin still does an amazing job teaching everything in this class.
One of the best classes I've taken and that's not because I found it pretty easy. It's a must take if you're interested in learning more about music theory and a great way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. Professor Beaudoin is also a great lecturer and a really cool person to get to know. It was one hell of a class.
This course is a great way to wet your feet with music theory.  The professor is fantastic, the teaching staff was always accommodating and willing to help.
This was the best course that I have taken so far at Harvard.  The teaching staff was excellent and very approachable and the workload was fair.
It was so much fun! Best course I've taken outside of my concentration in my four years.
This is a wonderful way to fulfill Lit-B!
I would tell students that have any sort of musical background to take the course.  It has greatly deepened my understanding of music, and it was one of the most fun classes I've ever taken.
Awesome course, very relaxed and fun, but you learn what you're meant to learn.  Great starting point for anyone interested in music with anywhere from none to a little background.  Most people concentrate in other fields so there's not a lot of pressure from that end.  Prof is awesome, as was my TF
The class is essentially some nit picky rules on notation.  You won't really learn anything that will help you grow as a musician or a composer and the grading tends to be all or nothing, but it is fairly easy
This is one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard. Take it!
Great course. Very entertaining professor and fun problem sets that let you write your own music.
Do not take this as a fifth class or with a thesis to write.
Take this class! Professor Beaudoin is extremely entertaining.  His ability to explain music and make tonal theory accessible is astounding.
great, interesting, fun course that will teach you how to create your own beautiful tonal music
This class is amazing.
If you like music and you like fun, take this class.
This class is an empowering, painless introduction to music theory.  It gives you a deeper appreciation of how music "works" (without making it less enjoyable or moving), and the short, manageable assignments let you think creatively and give you a handful of mini-compositions you can be proud of.
Take it.
Professor Beaudoin is incredible, the class is extremely well organized and interesting. Some of the homeworks take longer than expected due to the nature of the work but are generally well worth it.
This course is fun, easy, and will give you a solid background in the basics of music theory.
I am not sure what I can say that would be useful as a recommendation - this course was just so good.  It is without doubt one of the best courses I have taken during my time here.
You can take this class with more or less any background in music, but it's definitely helpful to have some familiarity with notation. The class is a lot of fun and you will learn a lot about tonal music!
Some familiarity with music is good. Going in without any experience in music will make it hard to get the value of this course.
This class is absolutely amazing.  It will change the way you listen to and play music, and you'll even get a chance to write your own music!  Professor Beaudoin's lectures are spellbinding, and the TFs form an extremely musical and capable team that make all music and theory come alive.  I think everyone should take it.
You should take this course if you are interested in composition or if you are eager to  learn about music and what it is behind. If you don't play an instrument it is ok, you can always start learning how to play the piano while you take this class and the TFs and professors will help you without doubt. This class is very exciting and it gives you a great introduction to music theory.
If Prof. Beaudoin is teaching it, TAKE IT!
The best course I have EVER taken. Lectures will knock you off your feet.
This is the perfect introduction to Music Theory for people who have little to no musical ability or knowledge, as well as those who are musical but lack theory, and is a perfect stepping stone to higher theoretical classes.
a good class; will be very easy for someone with musical background; someone with music theory background (AP or otherwise) should consider taking a more advanced music theory class
This class is a fantastic introduction to tonal music. After taking this class, you will be able to understand the basic methods composers utilize to convey different ideas through music. Also, you will be able to compose fairly satisfying music after you take this course.
This class is great--I met so many great people through the sections too, and you actually get to create a song--a once-in-a-blue-moon opportunity. If you're a singer who wants to know more about theory, you'll love this course.
Professor Beaudoin is fabulous! He is thorough and engaging and expects a high standard of competency from all of his students, no matter their level upon starting. That said, do not be discouraged from taking this class, even if you can't read music. The amazing TFs will help you get up to speed with more advanced students. You cannot leave this class without having at least the basics of Tonal Music Composition.
Take it! I learned a ton, while having fun. If you have no background in music, I would try and learn some basics so that you are on a similar level to other people in the class.
Great class:  well taught, very easy, and an interesting subject.
This is definitely a fun course, with lots of opportunity for creativity amd actually, gasp, having fun doing assignments. It may disappoint students who are expecting a bit more in depth look at music, in which case a more intense class may be more to their liking, but this one, especially for a theory virgin like me, was more than interesting enough to take and I fully recommend it.
yes its a core but its a fast paced class.... dont get behind!
A terrific foundational music class to take for anyone who is interested.
It's not the easiest class but the challenges it provides are actually fun and applicable beyond the course material.  The faculty associated with the class are great - helpful, enthusiastic, etc.
Extraordinary class! A lot of work but it was really worth it.
Be prepared to enjoy this class.
Incredibly fun, great way to get better understanding of how tonal music works and effectrs people
This course will definitely teach you the basics of tonal music, including a bit of composition. Very good course.
Such a fulfilling course!
Know how to play the piano!
cool way to learn music theory, music composition and supplement outside or extracurricular musical involvement (singing, performance, listening). if you want to work your mind in a new way, take this class. the professor is awesome, and you always leave passionate and energized by the material!
If you already have a decent amount of music experience, probably better to skip. Unless you need to balance your schedule, in which case take this.
Music 2 is an amazing course, and if you get Derek as your section leader, then you are in for a real treat. Simply put, I don't think I've ever had as enthusiastic, effective, and all-around amazing TF as Derek, and you should consider yourself lucky if you get him. Not only did I learn a ton from his sections, but you can clearly tell that he's very experienced with teaching music in engaging ways. Lectures were not as engaging for me, but section really helped me learn and re-learn the material. I walked out of this class knowing a ton more about music. Outside of lecture and section, this assignments take around 1 hour per week. I really cared about the homework and creative projects though, so I spent extra time (around 3-4 hours) working on them, but 1 hours is definitely enough.
Lectures are interesting (Prof Netzer is a slightly quiet but entertaining lecturer!), sections are informative and fun (my TF Justin Hoke was very engaging), and the assignments are not too challenging! A background in music helps a lot, but students are sorted into sections accordingly, so there is nothing to fear.
best gened ive taken
If full fledged music theory seems out of reach, this is also a great way to get your feet wet in a pretty entertaining and well-thought-out class. Also, if you've played music for a long time but never really understood what lies behind the notes or how composers manage to create beautiful songs, this course serves as a wonderfulbut basicintroduction to music theory.
Great introduction to music if you don't have a strong background in music! It's not that much work to do well, but obviously you get more out of it the more you put into it.
Great class for someone who had barely any music theory experience in the past. A lot of the technical information went over my head, but I still learned a lot and have a greater appreciation of music and all the thought that happens to create it. I think that even if you did have more theory knowledge, you could still learn a decent amount from it.
Very easy class!
This is a great class with a wonderful support system through the teaching staff! I really enjoyed the course and there are many students who come from music backgrounds, but with limited theory experience.
Starts easy, gets more difficult. Amazing teaching staff.
Take this! A fun and painless way to fulfill a gen-ed requirement, though I would have taken it as an elective as well. You learn a great deal about music theory and history, and the composition assignments are a lot of fun.
Very easy if you play an instrument, but a good introduction to classical music.
Dont transfer in after 3 weeks like I did where you miss the part of the class where they teach you how to read music. That being said, given how behind i was, the professor and the section leaders were AMAZINGLY accommodative of helping me catch up and meeting with me, and making sure I felt good about the fact. They really cared about getting to know me, and deeply cared about my success in the class. PROF NETZER AND DEREK ARE LITERAL BAE
This is a great course! Prof. Netzer really cares about the students and about improving the course, it's not a lot of work and I really learned a lot.
The creative projects are a lot of fun!  The readings do not add much to what you get out of the course, but lecture and section are very good.  Some background with keyboard skills and basic music theory (e.g. scales) is helpful.  This course will leave you feeling comfortable with the basic aspects of composition.
This is an absolutely fantastic introduction to the world of music theory. No matter your comfort level, Osnat and the rest of the staff are there to support you, and if you don't need support, they're there to lead you outside of your comfort zone.
This is the biggest gem that no one talks about. Don't be intimidated if you don't have any musical experience, you'll be fine.
This class is not unnecessarily hard and is honestly fun and fascinating
This class is one of the best finds at Harvard.  Please take it and enjoy listening to beautiful classical music three times a week.  There's nothing to lose.
This is a very enjoyable class for people of all music backgrounds (and I assure that all music backgrounds can be found in the class--from someone who doesn't know a single note, to someone who was a concert pianist in his gap year). The teaching staff is extremely kind, encouraging, and accessible. Materials are easy to learn from. Lecture is always relaxing. I really enjoyed the creative projects, which gave me the free reign to imagine, and to understand music in a new way by actually developing it.
Great class to fulfill a GenEd!
TAKE IT! One of my favorite classes at Harvard
This class was awesome! Professor Netzer was amazing and this class taught me a lot about a subject I was really interested in.
you will learn music
Great way to fulfill your AI if you're even remotely interested in music!
Interesting class but varies wildly depending on your section leader. You can succeed with no musical experience, but the more musical background, the easier it'll bethough, too much and you'll be bored. Ideal for students with experience with an instrument but minimal experience in theory.
Great class that is fairly easy to anyone who has played a classical instrument.
If you don't have prior music theory knowledge this class moves fast, so be prepared. Otherwise, pretend you don't know anything and profit.
One of my greatest regrets of high school was not taking music theory. This course was a fun and enjoyable way to make up for that mistake. I deeply enjoyed this course and the section experience was amazing.
This is an amazing course; you learn a lot about theory and composition, but it is not at all time-consuming.
Great course!! I highly encourage it!! Very chill and you learn interesting stuff about music theory! Prof. Netzer's lectures are great!
I entered this course knowing virtually nothing about music theory and left it composing pieces of my own - full harmonies and all! So happy I took this class.
This is a great course even if you don't care about music at all and just want to satisfy the gen ed. It takes almost no time at all.
This is a fantastic way to fulfill your AIU gen-ed, especially if you've previously had any musical training.  The course is enjoyable, interesting, and very easy.
This class is amazing. Derek is the best TF ever and Professor Netzer is an amazing lecturer. The class does get difficult towards the end but there is so much support that it never feels like "work".
It really helps you understand music better if you play an instrument
Incredible course and undoubtedly the most fun and educational way to satisfy the A&I gen ed requirement. As a complete beginner coming into the course, I learned an immense amount about music. The course also felt quite easy because the assignments were short and fun and because the instructors are phenomenal teachers.
Music 2 is an enjoyable, low-stress class. Follow the assignment guidelines carefully. Most of the learning takes place in section and, therefore, an individual's experience depends heavily on the quality of the section leader. This course is substantially harder if you do not have a music background.
You learn a lot about musical theory and can identify different parts of classical and non-classical music, which is cool. It is definitely easier if you have prior experience.
Great great class! If you have trouble finding an AI that you'll like, then this is the class for you!
This is a great class, even if you've already had extensive training in music theory (in which case it will be on the easy side).
Do your reading, participate in lecture. You'll have more fun that way. Work on your creative project a week beforehand so you can go over it with your TF.This course is the most fun course I have taken at Harvard!
This was a good class. Yu learned a lot, but it was a very relaxed setting.
the professor is incredible and the assignments don't feel like HW (you get to compose music!); GEM of a class
Music 2 is a great GenEd, you don't have to put too much, but you will get a lot out, especially if you are interested in the structure of music.
For people interested in Music and Music theory this course is awesome. You learn a lot and the material can be difficult, but it is really well taught, the teaching staff support you through it, and want you to succeed so it is very enjoyable!
I liked this class. It's a great way to fulfill AI. The class was unexpectedly quite composition focused, which I didn't mind because I enjoyed it a great deal.
This class is fun, easy, and engaging. Be prepared to perform music that you write, and be prepared to get comfortable with a piano.
Take this course if you have any interest in music at all. very fun and a great way to learn or relearn the fundamentals.
Lots of fun and you learn so much!
This class was great!
Music 2 is a wonderful course. I came in with some music experience (in a choir) and it blew my mind. Understanding the theory behind music is so incredible - I now have a better understanding of every piece I hear. Absolutely a good Gen-Ed choice.
Very basic material. Felt like a lot of people in the class wouldn't get a whole lot out of it. I had no prior knowledge so I learned a ton.
