If you have played an instrument for a while but have never taken the time to learn music theory, take 51a. It's great (try to get David as your TF!)
Professor Beaudoin is absolutely amazing and made this one of my favorite classes at Harvard.  This class was such an interesting way to complete a GenEd requirement because it's very different from most Harvard classes.  We engaged with a huge range of music from Bach to American Blues to Adele, and every lecture was interesting and engaging.  I learned so much about music theory and composed two short pieces - something I had always wanted to do but never thought I could!  This course will really make you think about and understand the music you hear on a deeper level and the assignments are really interesting.
Unfortunately I have heard that Professor Beaudoin may not be returning after this year, but this has been one of my favorite classes ever at Harvard and anyone who wants to know intermediate-level music theory, learn about fascinating composers and pieces, and grow to love all kinds of music a little bit more would love this class.
Definitely one of the best classes I took at Harvard. I wish I discovered this class earlier! There is a lot of work, but it's all extremely necessary for learning the course material. There are even opportunities to write your own compositions (which I extremely appreciated).
This is not a course you should take thinking it will be that "easy" gen ed. That being said, if you have any interest in music theory, it's well worth your while. The course is very rewarding, and you come out of it with a better understanding of the music that surrounds us on a daily basis.
The professor, Dr. Beaudoin, was phenomenal. His level of insight and expertise concerning music theory was astonishing and his ability to present the course material in an interesting fashion that resonated with students of all academic backgrounds and interests was commendable. Second, the course's curriculum was extremely well organized and structured. There were short-term lecture-by-lecture goals, which kept the class focused and there was a wonderful arc to the class content, which put the individual lessons in perspective with the respect to the trajectory of the entire semester. Third, the assignments were meaningful, had a specific and obvious purpose, and were challenging yet not impossible. Finally, the course sections aided in depth of understanding, added variety, and helped foster community.
A lot of my enthusiasm is for Professor Beaudoin and my TF (Michael Kushell), but I also found the curriculum interesting, especially the instruction in 4-part chorale voice-leading, which has shaped the way I arrange harmonies in other musical undertakings.
I loved this class.
Lots of overlap with AP Music Theory if you've taken that, except some stuff at the end concerning sequences, and also the projects that you do in writing musical analysis essays and composing a piece like one of the Bach cello suites. Still fun and lecture is interesting. Sections can be a bit boring, however. The class will expose you to interesting music.
TAKE THIS. If by some miracle Beaudoin is teaching it, it's a no brainer. If not, the material is still strong enough and the music is still fun enough that if you like music at all and have a reasonable competence in the field, it's a great one.
Sadly, this is Professor Beaudoin's last year so it might not apply to incoming students. However, I have to say that this was one of my favorite classes at Harvard (and I'm already a junior!) Professor Beaudoin was one of the best teachers I've ever had. He is enthusiastic, attention grabbing, and makes "boring" music theory alive and exciting.
This class is fantastic. Richard Beaudoin is one of the best lecturers I have ever had, and probably will ever have. His ability to explain the material clearly, while also probing the class for questions/uncertainty while also being hilarious is unparalleled. The course does a good job of covering the basics of harmonic and melodic line. Even though I did not feel that confident because I had not taken much music theory or does much composition (only a bit in Music 2), this course provided an excellent environment to dive into composition and try my hand at it. The two composition assignments gave me a chance to be creative and were some of the most rewarding assignments I have done at Harvard. The keyboard portion of the class, however, I found very frustrating. For me, having had no prior experience playing the piano, the keyboard portion of the course seemed to be a bit too much. While in the course, I remember thinking that they were trying to use this instrument that I could barely play to reinforce and elaborate on complex topics from the class--it was as if they didn't realize that I still could barely play the instrument, let solidify concepts from class by playing it. In the end, though, I am glad they had that portion of the course because I gave me a familiarity with the piano that I certainly would not have had otherwise. Whether the keyboard section actually helped me understand concepts better is another question. I was just trying to play the damn thing.
It is an amazing course - the professor's enthusiasm will generate into your enthusiasm. When you end the course, you'll have something tangible to show for it as well - your own piece of music.
Unfortunately, Beaudoin (the professor) is leaving next year, and I think he made the class a lot more fun, interesting, and engaging than it normally would be given the occasionally dry material.
If it is not taught by Professor Beaudoin then the course will have to be re-evaluated, as so many of the wonderful parts of this course have come from his teaching.
This class teaches you the fundamentals of music theory, and gives you the versatility to use the basic tools you are given to orient yourself around any kind of music.
This class made me want to concentrate in music.
A great era has come to an end. Those who come after this semester will not have the joy and privilege of learning from the great Professor Beaudoin and I am sorry for them.
This class will encourage you to work your hardest because that is what the instructors want from you. It may seem hard but it comes with a great reward!
Music 51 will not be the same without Professor Beaudoin, but it really is a joy and worthwhile, whether you are looking to get into the music concentration or just are interested in theory and want a good course to fulfill AIU. I enjoyed the course in and of itself, but as a science concentrator, having a class that relied on pen and paper was also very refreshing and a good balance to a computer heavy semester.
Professor Beaudoin's lecture were incredible. He is truly an engaging and gifted composer and educator. This is a great class to begin the study of composition or theory. The section sizes are really small and the discussions are usually very engaging.
Professor Beaudoin is by far one of the best lecturers at Harvard. It really is a shame that he won't be teaching this course next year.
I don't know how the course will change when Beaudoin leaves, but with him it was definitely one of the standout moments of my time here at Harvard.
The lectures were fantastic and engaging, the course is essential for any student interested in music. Musical background is helpful and while probably not absolutely necessary, would make the course a moderately easy course as opposed to a very difficult course.
Professor Beaudoin is an incredible teacher. The lectures are fast-paced but engaging, and it covers a remarkable amount of material in a very short time.
This is the best course I've ever taken in every way.  I don't really have much else to say.  It's fun, interesting, informative, and really just amazing.
This class absolutely will make you a better, more well-rounded musician.
Terribly fun class, surprising challenging, but you do learn a lot. Beaudoin made the lectures worthwhile.
Lectures are fun, the music covered is good and non-classical at times, section is blah, you get a free MIDI keyboard to rent, and everyone who takes it is a musician.
Take it less seriously than you anticipate. The importance of this course is its big picture.
This is an awesome course, but too bad Beaudoin is leaving...
I would only recommend it to a friend who is interested in learning about music. If one does not have any musical background and wants to take the course for fun, one might find one's self doing a lot of work in just understanding the musical language and everything.
Great class!  The lectures were very interesting and the assignments were very fun.
It's a lot of fun.  There are a lot of components of the class to keep track of, but it's very very manageable.  A very enjoyable way to fill the AIU requirement AND learn a lot about music theory.  Beaudoin's lectures were very interesting.
This class is incredible. Music is very fun, and this class makes it all the more fun. Understanding line, tonal harmony, and rhythm is a good basis for understanding a lot about music, and not just classical music. Professor Beaudoin and the teaching staff are really caring, and enthusiastic about teaching. Professor Beaudoin emails pretty much every week saying he's willing to help with assignments, and apparently he looked at people's compositions over Thanksgiving break. While lecture is 2 hours long, it hardly feels like any time at all.  On that note, I will point out that this class is a time commitment (in addition to 2 hour lecture, there's section, ear training section, and keyboard lessons). However, it's a blast, and completely worth it.
To me, this course was rather unremarkable. It didn't make me cringe due to major organizational problems or terrible assignments, but while the material was somewhat interesting and the course reasonably good, it wasn't memorable and didn't push my music or my thinking ability as much as it could have. It does fulfill the AIU GenEd painlessly for musicians and gives a decent introduction to music, but those who have played an instrument for a long time will likely be uninterested in the material.
All the teachers of this class are incredible, and they really make the class an incredible experience. Theory sounds dry, but with Beaudoin it is not at all; class is really fun, and the TFs are great. All the assignments are really fair and doable, even if they seem overwhelming at first, and your TFs will help you along the way. I would absolutely take this class.
This is a great course that will deepen your appreciation of music and improve your ability to compose
Professor Beaudoin is an amazing professor, who is enthusiastic about what he does. This makes each lecture interesting and informative. I had almost now prior music theory background, so I struggled a lot with this course. However, I'm really happy I took it, and with the help of the professor, TFs, and classmates, I learned a lot and am moving on to take the next part of the course.
Professor Beaudoin is an engaging lecturer. Take time to see him in office hours... he gives great feedback. Also, don't stress yourself over the readings. Don't ignore them, but don't dwell on small details.
You can take this class without any formal theory background AND without being a pianist. I did, and had a really fantastic time. I had never done things like Roman numeral analysis before, and while I was definitely behind my classmates at times it was never that big of a deal. The teaching staff did a great job making sure everyone was up to speed, so as long as you have played a reasonable amount of music--be it singing, piano, violin, guitar, whatever your thing is--you'll be fine and probably have a great time in this class. I really had a ton of fun.

Also worth noting that the keyboard section really isn't anything to lose sleep over if you're a non-pianist; it's a pretty laid-back addition to the course that doesn't demand a lot of you.
Really fantastic course! You learn so much, and it's all really fun! it seems like quite a time commitment because of the three sections (1 hr weekly normal section, 30 min weekly keyboard section, 10 min weekly musicianship section) but they're all really enjoyable so I didn't mind at all! The teaching staff is wonderful--Prof. Beaudoin is one of my favorite professors I've had at Harvard! Olivia was also a really fantastic TF, but unfortunately I think she's leaving. I'd HIGHLY recommend this to anyone who wants to use it for a music secondary, A&I, or even just an elective!!
This course is a lot of work, but you definitely learn from it and gain a greater appreciation for music in general.
Make sure you already have a good understanding of basic music and music theory concepts.
I had only heard good things about Music 51a and it did not disappoint. Professor Beaudoin is amazing. Every week I felt as if his lectures lead the way to a whole different world with green grass, clear blue sky (and perhaps a lemon tree because why not). Assignments, section and keyboard are excellent as well.
Totally worthwhile if you're even thinking about taking this course!
Professor Beaudoin is delightful.
Music 51a is a great class to take if you're looking to learn more about the technical aspects of music. You learn about basic concepts which you can apply when listening to or writing music. It's great if you want to learn how to better appreciate music and/or want to further your understanding of music theory. Beaudoin is a great professor.
Don't underestimate the amount of time this class requires.
Professor Beaudoin is an amazing lecturer and teacher. Even though most of the music studied is classical with an emphasis on Bach, Prof. Beaudoin does a good job of using contemporary musical examples and relates what you learn to current music.
Professor Beaudoin is absolutely amazing. He fills the room with energy while teaching and makes difficult theory concepts easy to understand. If you're interested in music, take this course! In terms of being ready to take it, I think there are two options for preparation for this course:
a) Have prior music theory knowledge: If you've taken AP Music Theory in high school, you should breeze through the foundational parts of the class, which will make it easier for you than it was for me.
b) Be very interested in music: If, like me, you don't have any theory background, don't worry! I'm a singer (4 years of choir) that loves music, but had never studied it in an academic setting before, and while the first few weeks went slightly over my head, I was soon easily understanding all the material. If the term "Roman numeral analysis" scares you, trust me: it really isn't too bad.
If, however, you just want to explore music and you haven't really done so before, I might advise taking a lower level intro to music class, since this class assumes some degree of knowledge of very basic concepts in music.
Beaudoin is truly an incredible professor, and this class is phenomenal. You will learn a ton and have a blast.
Even if you know a lot about music theory already, take it. Even if it's just to see Beaudoin's fabulous lectures. Overall the class experience was amazing. A few things that struck me in particular:

The mount of individual attention you will get is stunning. The teaching staff will care about what you do, and provides multiple weekly individual meetings.

The assignments are well thought out, and you will get a very enriching experience out of completing each one. Analysis papers, compositions, harmonic analyses... all provided different ways of finding personal growth within the realm of music.

Lectures are stellar. They are clear, structured, engaging. I've sat through a pretty big amount of music lessons before, and close to none were as well prepared as these. 

Beaudoin is a composer, and will emphasize the creative and sensitive side of your musical education, which I find the to be the best way of teaching music.

This is also just an excellent way to become part of the music department community at Harvard which is quite small and tightly knit. 

In case the comments above aren't clear enough: if you are interested in music, this is a course of rarely met quality that you should certainly take.
This is a great class- an absolute must if you are a musician! Beaudoin is one of the best lecturers I've encountered, and I truly looked forward to each class. Keyboard section is a little dull/arbitrary, especially if you're a pianist, but I definitely walked away from this course with a new perspective on all types of music- not just classical!
If you have some background in music theory and are at all interested in learning more, then take this course. Professor Beaudoin is fantastic, and you'll solidify what you've learned previously and learn some cool new concepts. All of the sections can get a bit annoying, but the assignments are great (not too time-consuming). Definitely take this class!
This is an excellent class in all respects
This is an amazing class. It is extremely well-organized and balanced. Every assignment is interesting, varied, and requires critical thinking. The sections are very small (around five people) and the TFs are outstanding and give detailed and timely feedback. Professor Beaudoin gives wonderful lectures and is almost always available to meet students during office hours.

I came into this class never having taken a formal music theory class before, and I thought it would be extremely difficult to keep up. However, you do NOT need a previous background in theory to do really well in this class, though experience with reading and writing music or playing an instrument is essential, as well as having a passion for music. If you make it through the placement exam and are recommended for this class, sign up without hesitation (despite any misgivings about the placement exam). You will not regret it.
Many people said this felt like two classes. There are just so many assignments. A foundation in Western music training was pretty crucial. That being said, it certainly teaches you a lot about harmony and musicianship. Take it, just expect to devote a lot of time to it!
I would definitely encourage students to take this course!  It is engaging, creative, and very enlightening.  As a student who has taken an AP Music Theory course though, it was a fair amount of review though.  I would definitely give a high amount of praise to Professor Beaudoin for nonetheless bringing a fresh perspective to the material every class, and the way he goes about structure each lecture is very thoughtful and clearly organized.
This is an outstanding introduction to the theory of music, and is every bit as enjoyable as it is practical.  Take it!
Take this class if you're placed into it! It's graded super-fairly, and Prof. Beaudoin and the TF's are all very helpful. However, make sure you're ready for it with a decent background in theory. You can catch up if you don't know roman numeral analysis, but the first two weeks will be a struggle.
It can be really hard to do well in the class... Small errors on assignments can mean an immediate 1.5% off your final grade. Beaudoin is incredible. Cosmic.
This course is a wonderful introduction to the theory of western classical music. The music studied in the course is amazing, often cosmic, and the lectures are just captivating.
This class is great.
This course is a fantastic introduction to the core concepts of music theory. However, I use the word "introduction" loosely, as it is necessary to have a pretty concrete background in theory before taking this course.
I didn't have any music background going into the class. I simply had an interest in music so took this class as a pure elective. The teaching staff is really supportive. I was able to keep up in the class and learned a great deal about music theory. Would definitely recommend to those who may have played music for a long time but never learned the theory behind the music.
This course is a revelation. It removes the veil of mystery around Western music and blows the ceiling off of the possibilities and magic it can inject into your life.
If you enjoyed AP Music Theory (or any music theory/analysis), take this course. This course delves deeper into analysis and follows after AP Theory cirriculum perfectly. Beaudoin's lectures are a joy - the highlight of one's week. Beaudoin is fascinating and entertaining and teaches the material perfectly. The workload is not heavy at all, and if music (especially theory/analysis) is your thing, you will usually look forward to working on the weekly assignments or cumulative compositions.
Professor's enthusiasm as well as his teaching strategies make his lecture one that is looked forward to.
This is an amazing class! I highly recommend it. If you don't get in from the placement test, take Music 2 and take it the next fall. Professor Beaudoin is an inspiring (and often funny) lecturer and the entire teaching staff is very helpful. As a performer, I never thought I would be so excited about theory, but this class has that effect.
If you are a competent musician with a decent knowledge of theory and a fairly well trained ear, you can take this as a fourth class.  I felt they made it out to be much harder than it really is for people who are already into music.  If this is more like your first brush with theory, you will need to spend a lot more time, and may not want to just throw this class into your schedule.
This has been my most favorite class at Harvard so far! I didn't even feel like I was in class, because I enjoyed what we were learning so much. Professor Beaudoin is the best teacher I have ever had, so if he is teaching this class, you HAVE to take it! I took AP music theory in high school, so this class was a bit of a review at the beginning, which allowed me to enjoy the material even more.
This is a music theory course which emphasizes musicianship and theoretical knowledge, with a great balance.
It's a must-take if you love music!!
It is a fun engaging course with composition assignments and singing and piano components.
This class seemed interesting at first, but it suffered from a lack of organization. The lectures lacked coherency, and I often found myself struggling to figure out what the point was. Concepts were not well-taught or explained, in lectures or in section. Overall, do not take this course unless you are going to concentrate in music. It's probably not worth your time.
This is a fast-paced class in basic classical theory, beginning with line and ending with rhythm. The course is rigorous. Beaudoin does a great job of putting theory in the larger context of music- what theory can do, what it can't.
This course has been the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. Professor Beaudoin and the teaching staff genuinely care a lot about your growth as a musician. I would highly recommend this to any performer or music student!
This class is awesome. The lectures are engaging and interesting (and refreshing) and the teaching staff is also top notch. Plus, the material is naturally very interesting.
You should make sure your a quick music reader and have some skills under your belt or else you'll have to put in some extra effort, but its a phenomenal course and really exposes you to another realm of music appreciation and understanding.
Take it even if youre a "composer" or "songwriter" or dont enjoy "old music." Meaning in music will be challenged and discussed in a liberal arts setting sort of akin to an English class.
I would definitely recommend this course to anyone with an understanding of music theory that's as least as strong as mine was at the beginning of the course. It's not for the faint of heart--the course is fast-paced and it's easy to fall behind. That said, you'll learn a lot and have a lot of fun too.
As a non-music concentrator, I am very glad that I took this course. I got in off the wait list, so at first I was nervous that I would be in over my head - but the pace of the course is very manageable. If Beaudoin is teaching, then it'll be the fastest two hour lecture of your life, because that man is a legend. You'll learn so much, and have fun doing it.
Learning music theory will teach you more broadly about art and desire, how to stimulate it, shape it, release it. Prof. Beaudoin brings all this vividly to life with his instruction.
Beaudoin is the best professor. The class is very hard but if you actually take pleasure in the assignments ( and start them AS SOON as they are assigned ) you'll do well. Do not fall behind in lecture, and ask for help! Office hours are amazing, and really Beaudoin will give you the most help. It's sometimes difficult to keep everything organized, so communicate with your section/keyboard TFs and let them know what you're going through. Everyone comes from a very different background of music so don't be surprised if you are slower than others or faster  just pace how you need to
This was my favorite class that I took this semester. It was appropriately challenging and I learned a great deal. It has made me consider pursuing a concentration in music. The assignments, though time consuming, were really fun to work on and I felt like I was accomplishing real work with each one - that is more than I can say about any other class I took this semester. If you're at all interested in music, take this class!
Prof. Beaudoin really knows how to make music theory relevant. While you will learn music theory to some greater depth than AP, he will also teach you why music theory is useful as an analytical tool. The course is a first step to having the vocabulary to describe what in a piece moves you, be it Baroque or Top 40.
If you have extensive experience with western classical art music, then this course may seem a little basic to you. Even so, it's still fun and not all that much work.
Dan was an amazing section leader (so much so that getting up at 9 in the morning on Mondays and Fridays was totally worth it) and really helped us all improve at everything we were learning in the class. Professor Beaudoin also gave phenomenal lectures, which helped a lot when the subject matter was somewhat unexciting on its own.
it's a lot of fun, learning all the intricacies of basic music theory in a great classroom environment!
Wonderful class! Beaudoin is a very engaging lecturer and all the assignments, though sometimes difficult, are really interesting and enjoyable. Lecture was always a highlight of my week.
Professor Beaudoin is so enthusiastic and incredibly fascinating. He very clearly love what he teaches, and often offers fun and quirky analogies that help to explain concepts while giving us a glimpse of his great personality. This is not an easy class, but it will change the way you think about tonal music, revealing the logic, theory, and structure behind those "cosmic" moments of musical inspiration. The homework is a lot of fun - very hands-on, and the TFs are great.
This course isn't exactly an intro theory course--you definitely need some background. Professor Beaudoin is an amazing lecturer-- he prepares amazing lectures and is generally knowledgable about everything and anything you can think of--musical or not. Andy is the best TF!
This is a very good course.  Lectures were always interesting and engaging.  Professor Beaudoin is able to generate a lot of enthusiasm for the material, though sometimes it feels like he's only doing that and not actually teaching new stuff.
the professor is great!  If you want to be around people that have a thirst to discuss music, then this class is the class for you.
Beaudoin is so much fun. Compiling a list of quotes from him that you gather over the course of the semester may be a fun idea.
Do you like music? You will love this what this course will do to your understanding of music, and you will learn to really love music-even slowly and carefully.
Professor Beaudoin is a fun and enthusiastic lecturer, and he makes an effort to get to know everyone in the class. It's a really great way to meet people doing various musical activities on campus.
This is just a genuinely fun class to be in. It is quite challenging or quite easy, depending upon your level of experience. If you're on the fence between this and Music 2, choose the one that Beaudoin is teaching.
This class was so amazing. I highly recommend it to anyone who likes music even a little bit! It is definitely a lot of work, so don't be surprised, but it was my favorite class of the semester!!
I don't know of anyone who regretted taking this course. You can tell that Professor Beaudoin has so much knowledge he wants to share in such a limited amount of time, which result in lectures that are engaging and concentrated. Also, Professor Beaudoin is just plain funny. I looked forward to attending his class every week. I usually found the two hours flying by without glancing at my watch. The music we were exposed to was phenomenal (every single song made it onto my iPod, and I don't put just any song on my iPod) and there were multiple live performances by proficient musicians and groups.
This course was made in every sense of the word by Richard Beaudoin.  His lectures were excellent, and the course materials and assignments he provided---which, in speaking with students of the course in past years, were of his own original devising---were consistently relevant and enjoyable.  Homeworks, compositions, and papers alike were valuable and fun.  My appreciation of music, also, has increased.  This is absolutely a course worth taking, even for those like myself not pursuing a degree of any sort in music.
If you are interested in music, don't be afraid to take this class because it is about music theory. The way this course is taught makes music theory very fun.
Taken in my junior year; not in easy class, but made me remember why I loved music so much.
Awesome class, and great teaching staff, especially Professor Beaudoin. The beginning is very fast-paced, but it slows after that and is very manageable.
Make sure you have a solid foundation in music theory. The class moves quite quickly, so it may be difficult if you feel like you are always trying to catch up. Also, Beaudoin is incredible.
This is an excellent class! It can be a lot of tedious work at times, but the key concepts are explained very well in lecture, section, and keyboard, and when you complete the assignments, including the essays, you feel fulfilled or at least that you learned something. I really liked Richard Beaudoin's teaching style, which was not overly prescriptive and was well-organized, as well as my section leader's teaching, which was more relaxed and often clarified questions from lecture. The composition projects were great overall, but in some respects did not allow for much choice (lyrics and bass line chosen for us, melody chosen for us, harmonic form chosen for us). Despite this, however, they were STILL rewarding assignments and the course was still engaging and, at times, fun. Performing our final pieces in section was fun and, in that small environment with friendly classmates and the section leader, was not too nerve-wracking or critical (I hear that the previous year had to have their pieces performed, sometimes by others, in front of the entire videotaped class!). In this class, I feel that my attention to, appreciation for, and application of the concepts of line, harmony, counterpoint, rhythm, and phrase in music were honed. I also realize now that music theory is a very general tool, much more than just studying chords and harmonies, and have learned to distinguish it sharply from both composition and performance. If you want to learn the descriptive theory and mechanics of music, take this class! If you want to learn how to better your own composition in specific ways, take this class! If you want to learn a little bit about the history of Western music, take this class! All of that said, I DO recognize that this course can be annoying, especially for some music concentrators (and very much so for advanced ones). Even so, I recommend getting through this course - you will learn something in the end. Personally, I loved it!
Be prepared to work hard - this is not a class that can be put on the back burner.  But it really is a great class, you learn a lot and Beaudoin is such an amazing lecturer.
Beaudoin is a great lecture. My favorite of the year. He knows nearly all his students by name sand genuinely cares for their intellectual progress. All the section heads, including my own, and the keyboard head were extremely well-poised to teach their sections and were more than helpful whenever they could be. Overall, I looked forward to this class the most as the weeks went by.
If you love music and enjoy thinking about it, take this course. It is challenging and stimulating without being overwhelming. Great way to celebrate music. Beaudoin will leave you feeling happier leaving lecture than you were when you went in.
This is an extremely fun class, taught by a professor who knows how to keep the class entertained even through the long 2 hour lectures. Professor Beaudoin includes a wide variety of music (not just Baroque) as examples, so you'll learn how the class's concepts apply to any kind of music, even to pop tunes of today. This class involves a significant amount of work, especially towards the end with back-to-back exams, compositions, and papers. Don't assume this will be an easy class!
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Every single lecture, from the very first, was stimulating and exciting, and I looked forward to each and every week's class. Professor Beaudoin is an incredible professor, who is easy to talk with, brilliant, and a fantastic teacher. This class is flawless. The workload, while slightly stressful at the beginning of the course, is overall manageable. Grading is fair, with each assignment counting for a small part of the final grade. The compositions are fun, allowing the chance to apply the skills and theory we learn in class in a very direct way. If you have taken Music 2, AP Theory or have a strong theory background, take this course. I don't know one person in the course who regretted taking it.
Make sure to do a little bit of work every day, it really pays off in the end.
This was an amazing class, and I enjoyed my time in it.
Why would you not take a challenging and fun course in music that makes you a much better musician, theorist, and listener? It's awesome.
This is an excellent class when Beaudoin's teaching. He did ramp up the workload significantly, so it's certainly not a fourth class (or even third class for some), but it's manageable and very interesting the way he and the TFs taught.
An interesting introductory level course in music theory.
We learn from great music. Beaudoin is great. Victoria, the keyboard instructor, is great. My TF was not great, but this was not a reason not to take the class.
Professor Beaudoin is the best lecturer that I have had so far at Harvard.
I would recommend this class while Beaudoin is teaching it, as he is a fantastic lecturer.  However, the class itself (the assignments, that is) can become a bit tedious at times.  Don't be fooled: even if the material seems easy, this class can manage to take up a lot of your time.
I enjoyed this class! I probably would've gotten more out of it if I started things further in advance but even so the class was fun. Beaudoin's awesome, lectures are fun.
It is a wonderful class if you would still like music and the discussion of music to be an aspect of your education at Harvard. If you would like to explore material more in depth, I would suggest going to Office Hours as much as you like and doing more independent reading than what is required.
Don't take it as an elective if you're expecting a low work load and easy lecture material.
This is a great class. If you are a concentrator, you'd have to take it anyway, but I would highly recommend it to secondaries and people interested in music theory. You learn a lot and have a pretty broad understanding of basic theory at the end of the semester. It is a lot of class and a lot of work, but the staff is there to help you through it all. Ear training can be a little stressful, but they don't frequently grade you on it. Finally, Beaudoin is a reason to take any class. He's thought through every lecture so carefully and is good at teaching it.
Professor Beaudoin is the best.
This course is fantastic - most importantly because Professor Beaudoin was teaching it. Knowledge of basic music theory is required, and it's best if you're comfortable/flexible with using those concepts. If you don't understand chord progressions and applied (secondary) dominants, then Music 2 might be more appropriate. Give yourself time to work on compositions and assignments. You'll learn the most and take the most out of the course when you have time to work carefully on assignments.
If this class is being taught by Prof. Beaudoin, TAKE IT! One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard! Wednesday lectures were one of the highlights of my week!
If you have not taken a formal theory course before, be prepared to work harder than those who have. However, this class is amazing, so if you have the time needed to take it, take it. Beaudoin is an awesome professor and you will learn so much from the class. I also liked being able to improve my skills on keyboard. Overall a great class.
This course teaches you a lot about line, harmony, and rhythm. Even if you have taken AP Music Theory in the past, you can learn tremendously from this class. It may seem easy at times, but you gain experience. This is a class that is definitely worth taking. If you are afraid of it being significantly harder than Music 2, don't be: if you play an instrument or have a theory background, you can handle Music 51a's difficulty level without a doubt.
Take it. It is wonderful.
Professor Beaudoin is amazing. He's extremely enthusiastic, and his lectures are often funny and always enlightening. The curriculum is thorough and will give you a pretty solid base in theory, and the pieces/assignments are really fun. No matter what your background in theory, I would highly recommend taking this class.
This is a great way to fulfill A&I Gen Ed! Not a "chill" kind of class, but that's great because you learn SO MUCH about music and leave the course with an additional perspective on various genres of music. Also, Prof Beaudoin is the GREATEST, so consider taking a class with him.
I really, really loved this class. Professor Beaudoin puts so much thought into crafting the curriculum and students get so much out of this class. There was some hard work involved in the beginning, but as long as you're genuinely interested in music theory, I'm sure you will enjoy every assignment.
Prof. Beaudoin truly makes this course an unmissable experience. His lectures are packed with insight and interesting examples. If you wish to solidify your knowledge of tonal harmony and other aspects of theory, this is an apt course to take.
Professor Beaudoin makes Music 51a a true pleasure to take--every week I remember looking forward to listening to him talk at us for 2 hours. And it wasn't just monologue either--we would do some singing, some interactive exercises in composition or analysis, or have interesting discussions. The workload is quite reasonable, and Professor Beaudoin invests a lot of effort in designing each assignment such that it is both organized and efficient in teaching us the concepts. For anyone on the borderline, this is definitely a class worth taking. As a pianist and vocalist with minimal theory background, this course truly gave me a key understanding of the music with which we engage, from classical to pop.
I cannot recommend this class highly enough. The material is fascinating, but the real gems in this class are the teaching staff. Prof. Beaudoin and all of the TFs make class meetings the highlight of your day, and excite you about putting in the hard work that this class demands. If you like music enough to want to know how it works, take it--you'll be a better musician for it, and have a lot of fun!
The class has its ups and downs, to be sure, but Beaudoin's lecture make it all worth it. Seriously, the guy is top-notch and presents the material very clearly. Also, if you feel like you understand all of your covered topics already, still take this course. It will fill in that last 5-15% of material and really solidify what theory you already know.
If you told me in August that I would willingly take a music theory class, I would call you crazy. But Beaudoin took my prejudice against music theory and showed me just how awesome music can be. If Beaudoin is teaching this class, I highly recommend taking it. His witty sense of humor and his charisma made him my favorite professor this semester.
If you are an experienced musician or interested in going more in depth with music, this is a great class to explore just that.
This class is an incredibly fun (and not too difficult) way to get introduced to the world of music theory. The assignments are typically short compositions and don't ever take that long.  Professor Post is a fantastic lecturer who will keep your interest every week, and you'll leave the room wanting to make music. Your enjoyment of sections (normal/ear training) will depend on what TF you get since they vary in 'fun-ness', but they are all very helpful and fair in pointing out your mistakes. This is definitely a great course to take for anyone with an interest in music theory.
This class is the most fun I've had at academically at Harvard!
Very time-consuming course, both in and out of section.
It can be difficult if you are not well-versed in the classical style. The class requires/expects a certain knowledge of the common devices and the general feel of classical music.
If you really like music, have solid experience with theory and keyboard, and think about music theory in your spare time, this course will be a lot of fun.  If you don't have the experience outlined above, the course will probably still be fun for you, but you'll have to work substantially harder.
This is a very good introductory course to music theory. The course is well paced and the expectations are reasonable. This course is comparable to an AP Music theory class  easier, if anything. Students who wish to learn more about foundational music theory should not be intimidated away from this course from the fear that they won't be able to handle the material, because it is presented in a very accessible and doable manner.
It's a great class - not too difficult but you learn a lot at the same time. All of the lectures and sections are different and interesting and even the assignments can be fun too!
Great introduction to music theory.  I learned a ton.  Professor Post is utterly delightful.
Take the placement exam.
The course touches only the fundamental aspects of music theory, but teaches it quite well. Classroom discussions are fun and the lecture handouts complement the course well, but you have to know enough music theory to understand what everyone is talking about. Depending on your background in music theory, you might get more out of this course if you supplement the lectures by pre-reading chapters from a music theory book. This will empower you to speak up in lectures, thereby getting the full advantage of the classroom situation.The primary assessment of this course is through composition exercises, both weekly assignments and the midterm (write a chaconne) and the final (write any tonal piece up to 2 min in length). All the exercises are very doable and much fun. Besides, you get to have your final composition performed in Memorial Church, and you can't beat that!
Don't be intimidated about taking this course if you don't have a strong theory background.  You do not need to have studied theory formally before to do well in the course.  While there are definitely other students in the class who have learned much of the material before, the course is taught at a pace where it's very possible to succeed without prior theory knowledge.
This class, under Prof Post, is BORING. That said, it is great for learning Music Theory and incorporating it into your own music making. The sight-singing and keyboard classes make for a very dynamic learning experience. At times, however, the many different classes/teachers gets confusing and it loses some of its effectiveness. If you plan on concentrating in music, take this class. If not, I would recommend another music class. At least while Prof Post is teaching.
This class is lots of fun and, even though the workload is tiny, you still feel a sense of accomplishment at the end because of the compositional focus.
For a requirement, it's a nice course. Olaf is lovely and the keyboard section is very helpful. As indeed are all the sections. Personally, I didn't find it challenging enough BUT I had to take it to concentrate in Music. Not my favorite course but a good one. I think it only paled because my other classes this term was extraordinarily good.
I came in the class knowing very little about theory but having played an instrument for many years helped. I learned a lot about how music works and how to create my own music, and I came out of the class feeling great about the progress and accomplishments I had made. Don't be a perfectionist for the weekly assignments--I found out that if I kept on rewriting things to try to make it sound perfect, I would spend way too much time on the assignment. Set a limits for how long you spend on a part, and put your best effort forth in that limit.
I really loved this course-- It was one of my favorites this semester. I would recommend it to anyone with the proper background (playing an instrument, ideally at least some piano experience). Olaf isn't necessarily the best lecturer, as he is sometimes unclear, but the TFs for this class are actually awesome and clarify everything for you.
If you want to learn how to compose music or take your current musical knowledge that much further, this is the course for you. Rather than teaching the tedious and droll facts of music theory, this course emphasizes directly applying techniques of theory to the art of composition.
This class is actually a fair amount of work, so don't underestimate it.  But you learn a LOT.
This class moves very quickly if you've never seen the material before, but if you have it all blends together and you often feel you're wasting your Monday afternoon.
For anyone curious or interested in music theory, it is an amazing class.
This is such a great class! I had never taken any sort of composition class before, and by the end I felt perfectly comfortable composing a German lied for my final project. I would use the homework for this class as a break from my less fun classesworking on keyboard harmony was especially a joy. Don't get me wrongthis class involves putting in the work to get a handle on the important conceptsbut in the end it definitely pays off.
Be prepared to be challenged (it will, of course, be rewarding).
Take it! It's an extraordinary plunge into thinking about music in a more conscious and analytical way. I feel like I am double the musician I was at the beginning of the summer; I think about music in a far more sophisticated manner now, understanding what I used to do instinctively and learning about things I did not know of before.
It's tough, but if you want a crash course in music theory, this is it. Professor Rehding is really wonderful, too! He's a great teacher and I wish HE taught section!!
You get a huge diversity of examples to work from, from Palestrina masses to Mozart to Europop. It's very refreshing.
Overall, I learned a lot about how to analyze pieces and understand how tonal music works much better.  However, the keyboard aspect of the class is difficult and requires a lot of work.
onlh take it if you're willing to work hard
Take it you can! Such a good class!
If you've taken AP Music Theory, this is a great review.
The class is a lot of work, but fun nonetheless.
Don't take this unless all you want to do is use big words to describe music and unless you don't know how to play an instrument and you have to act like you know a lot of music, when really, you don't.
If you want to be a concentrator, you must take this class and it will be both challenging and time consuming.  If you are considering taking this course as a fun elective, I suggest you don't. Take music 1,2,3 or 4 instead.  This (MUS51) is an intense concentration class.  Piano skills are helpful, but because the piano playing concepts taught are primarily mental tasks, almost everyone regardless of piano experience begins roughly on the same level.  Lecture is interactive, entertaining, and rarely drags, but section work is where the real grind is.  TFs will push section members to their limits.
It is really worthwhile despite sucking up time at certain points.
but seriously, all potential music concentrators need to take it. it's just required.
If you are not already a serious musician willing to spend hours by yourself writing music, consider taking another course.
It's fun, but watch out for keyboard harmony, which is difficult.
Pay attention during the lectures--section work may not always reinforce lectures, but the quizzes are always lecture based.
It's a great crash-course in learning about music...we covered alot of terrain from theory to composition, and there's even a bit of history involved when discussing composers/styles/periods etc...
The lectures can be a bit boring, but the teaching staff is extremely strong.  The frequent one-on-one composition sessions with my TF were some of the most rewarding academic experiences I've have in any class.
There are a fair amount of different elements to the course (lecture, section, keyboard, ear training) that all contribute to a fair work load.  These different elements combine to make an effective theory course.
It's fun and it's tough at the same time. Check it out if you're into it, it's a good intro course to the music curriculum at Harvard.
great lectures, demanding at times but very satisfying, learned a lot
It is an important class but not necessarily an interesting class.
You should really know all the scales going into the class if you don't want to be overwhelmed by keyboarding.
This is a very fun class for anyone who hopes to learn anything about music theory. Even if you don't know very much theory when walking into the class, you leave the class knowing exponentially more.
Really fun. Don't be daunted by the final project; you get a huge variety of pieces based on the instruments that the students play/are familiar with, so you might have a solo viola piece or you might have a piece in the style of a chopin nocturne or you might have a simple 2-part minuet or you might have a fully voiced choral setting of a hymn. This year we even had a trio for trumpet, trombone, and french horn. All the TFs and Professor Rehding are extremely helpful and friendly and approachable; the keyboard section TF, David Sullivan, is particularly amazing and accessible and willing to stay after section for a long time (well, half an hour) to help you practice.
Don't take this class unless you plan to major in this field. It will seem like a waste of time if you just take it as an elective. I thought I might minor in music, but now I don't think that's going to happen, so I feel like a wasted a class.
Rigorous but quite handy.
Definitely take it, but wait until the kinks are worked out
This class really becomes what you make of it.  It can also be a lot more work than expected.
I strongly recommend this class, but be warned that it requires a lot of work and prior experience to excel in.
Music 51 is a great course for a serious musician, but requires a major time commitment.
