great professor.  fun and interesting.  kind of a tough grader..
Excellent. A theory course that doesn't lose sight of the music.
This class was worth taking 3 semesters of theory prior to get to.  The two hour lectures were the most brilliant academic meetings I have ever had.  The work is tough but amazingly fun.  You must take this class!
Professor Beaudoin is the most baller professor in the music department. He is hilarious, down-to-earth, and knows how to run a lecture.
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Any chance you have to take a class with Beaudoin, do it. His lectures are totally amazing, and I learned so much.
Professor Beaudoin is quite wonderful. Familiarity with Romantic repertoire really helps with the composition projects.
This is easily the best class I have taken at Harvard.  It is a lot of work but it is definitely worth it.
150b is an excellent culmination of the required theory courses for the music concentration.  Professor Beaudoin shows an infectious enthusiasm for the music that makes this course an absolute joy.  It's not easy course, but it's one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
The best music class I have ever taken but if you don't work it will kick your butt. This is what you hoped music classes would be like.
If you like music theory, you should definitely take this course. Prof. Beaudoin really challenges you to take the theory skills that you have learned and use them to do more in-depth analyses of the pieces you will study. I got so much out of the feedback he gave on the analytic papers.
Great professor and great music.  The keyboard and musicianship sections are very instructive and useful.
Professor Beaudoin is great. You will probably have a lot of work.
150b is a fantastic course, and Beaudoin is a great professor.  With this course, I feel I finally had the tools to dig into the music in a way that was meaningful, worthwhile, and also a lot of fun.  I worked really hard on this class, but none of it ever felt much like work.
A very interesting, but quite difficult, class.  You will not think of/hear music the same way after you take Mus150b, but be prepared to work for that understanding.
This class grew on me throughout the semester. Professor Beaudoin is terrific. As it turns out, Romantic music is actually pretty cool!
The TFs are great, but Professor Beaudoin really makes this class shine!  I'd been lukewarm about theory classes up to this point, but this was by far my favorite.
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard. Professor Beaudoin is a wonderful lecturer, and the material is beautiful.
Take it! Beaudoin will punish you for not being Chopin, but you'll learn a lot.
This is a fantastic course - take it and all other courses offered by professor Beaudoin
Be prepared to take the class and be judged against other students who are professional musicians.
Prof. Beaudoin is one of the best in the music department, and it's clearly reflected in his courses; this is the first worthwhile theory course I have taken at this school. It's really an excellent one, and engages in an interesting and exciting way with some of the best works in the western musical canon. Try to take it without three semesters of 51a, b, and 150a, because it's really worth it.
If you like theory and LOVE Romantic music, TAKE THIS CLASS. Prof. Beaudoin is one of the few professors in the Music Department who truly cares about teaching and his students.
If you've fulfilled the prerequisites, please take this course and enjoy a truly excellent classroom experience.
Such an awesome course of theory. I much prefer its subject matter to 150a. Beaudoin is one of the best lecturers I've encountered at Harvard, and he is so ready to help and listen. Learning from him and the tfs was a really engaging and valuable experience.
good class, prof beaudoin is a great lecturer. difficult but interesting subject material
This is the best of the mandatory series!
Be prepared to approach music in a much more studied and academic way than you have before this course.
This is a great class if you're looking for a greater exposure to Romantic music.  Don't expect to develop technical skills beyond those introduced in 51b, but it is still an enjoyable experience
If you want to further develop your understanding of theory and composition as well as understand the compositional forces behind the late Romantics and Impressionism, this is the course for you.
you will need to think more than in other theory classes - all the assignment prompts are much more open - but it's very rewarding and you get to study a lot of great music!
Keep all your theory fresh, it will help the process of analyzing the pieces for bigger assignments.
Beaudoin is literally the best music professor ever
Much more interesting than the Music 51 seriessince the preliminaries are out of the way, 150b looks at larger-scale theoretical questions in the context of studying music that's really worth understanding.
This class was so much fun, and Professor Beaudoin is an amazing teacher. It definitely requires a lot of work but is so worth it when you see how much you've learned in a semester.
This is one of my favorite courses at Harvard. It covers an awesome range of material, starting from the late Classical and going through the Romantic era, and even a little taste of what lies beyond that (Debussy, Bartok). As with Music 51a and 51b, Professor Beaudoin dives into the more obscure, but interesting examples of the studied time period. You'll study the gems that are perhaps less popular, but demonstrate shifting techniques and attitudes in the musical era. Professor Beaudoin's lectures are, while long like all music lectures (2 straight hours...), highly engaging and well thought-out. He leads you through the piece, asking for your thoughts and genuinely considering them as he describes his analysis. As well, the papers have very engaging topics and definitely worth your time. The TF's are also very good! I always received great feedback on my assignments, and they were always open to questions or just chatting about anything music related. Very knowledgeable musicians. Sections could sometime be a little dry, but the time spent on ear training, solfege, and transcribing was all highly useful.So in short, if you're reading this, you probably planning to take the course regardless, but just know you're in a good (and enlightening) time!
Take this course if, for no other reason, the opportunity to hear Professor Beaudoin speak about music every week.
If you want to pursue music, enjoy music, or even love music, please take this class. Unlike 150a, this course has a lot wider range of music to listen to, and learn from. This course will change how/what you listen to classical music. Professor Beaudoin and TFs are amazing.
Beaudoin is absolutely amazing, and I'm so sad that he has to leave! I hope whoever teaches this course next year can live up to his incredible achievement.
Really nice breadth of music in this course, and interesting and fun assignments too. Learned a lot in section and keyboard as well. The teaching staff were all around wonderful. Beaudoin is gone now so it won't be the same next year, but some of the teaching staff hopefully will be around.
TAKE THIS PLS SO GR8 SUCH A BEYOND ENJOYABLE EXPERIENCE (NOT JUST A CLASS)
The course was great, Pr. Beaudoin was amazing! We looked at music through so many different angles, and had fantastic assignments. A commitment, though not too hard. Take it!
This was another fantastic course from Professor Beaudoin, and its a huge shame that you wont be able to take it with him, but alas, Harvard is on a kick of getting rid of all of its best music professors.
As of the next academic year, Prof. Beaudoin will not be teaching this course, which is quite unfortunate as he truly brought charm and enthusiasm to the class. The course material is quite interesting, though it is not the typical 4th semester theory course, but the coverage of nonfuntional tonal harmony as well as some neo-Riemannian theory is quite interesting and useful for modern theorists. Completing this class would likely prepare an undergraduate for tackling higher level--perhaps even graduate level--theory.
Hard to tell what this course will be like without Beaudoin, who was fantastic.  If the same music is taught, the course should still be really good.
This was a phenomenal class, and I'm sorry it won't be offered next year. Professor Beaudoin is one of the best professors I've had here; his enthusiasm for the material is contagious. The entire teaching staff is so kind and helpful, and class really started to feel like a community.
This course is very well structured with Professor Beaudoin although he will be leaving this year. That being said, aside from his amazing teaching, the course structure gives a good overview of forms. I think all of the assignments have value but they are sometimes definitely tedious. The class has a great atmosphere and you end up learning a lot of different avenues that composers took to compose. There is definitely more of a step-back approach to looking at music in comparison to other earlier courses that do micro analysis of phrases.
