A fascinating survey of the new music scene in Boston and beyond.
Take it! It's really interesting, and it always feels like you're witnessing history in the making.
This course is an amazing opportunity to be overwhelmed--by ideas, by guests, by concerts, and best of all, by new music.
a very engaging introduction to the world of new music!
read at least parts of "Unsung Voices" and "In Search of Opera"
You have to take your education into your own hands, but you can gain a lot from this.
It's a great way to get acquainted with opera, if you aren't already. Professor Abbate brings a great deal of experience and insight to the operas you will study. Just know that the class is very "hands-off," and a lot of what you get out of it will be how much extra-curricular reading and watching you do.
Professor showed lack of interest, so there were no assignments, and class is often canceled.  Class discussions tend to wander into uncharted waters, as they are not strongly directed.  If a student is looking for a class with very little work and very little reward, this is the one.
Carolyn is one of the sharpest people writing in opera studies at present, and the chance to listen and discuss works with her is invaluable. Plus, she maintains a good dynamic for discussion among seminar members.
Be prepared to do a lot of work on your own getting familiar with the material to be discussed.
An opportunity to grapple with the most complex and most fundamental issues regarding musical meaning.
While Hanns Eisler seldom figures prominently into survey discussions of early twentieth-century German musical modernism, his dynamic career, prolific output as a composer, and personal ties to many of the twentieth century's most acclaimed writers and composers make him a fascinating subject for a seminar.
This is the best class I've ever taken.  Professor Oja is a true professional who cares deeply about her subject matter.  The semester was an exploration of a fascinating world.
Be prepared to work hard, but it will be worth it.
Prof. Carol Oja is amazing. She engages with students' work and is incredibly supportive and accessible. She is such a great asset to Harvard!
-Prof. Oja has put a lot of thought and effort into designing this course, and clearly expects the same of students.
