This is a fun class if you are interested in conducting.  The time we spent actually conducting and watching each other conduct was very informative.  The discussions weren't always very substantive -- conducting is really something you learn by doing!
This class is super fun and interesting Andy and Beth are some of the nicest and most helpful teachers at Harvard. You will certainly learn that there is a lot more to conducting than just waving your arms. This class teaches you to teach and get the best from an ensemble in different ways. Readings are minimal and most of the homework is to practice. Also, if you're lucky, you might get to meet famous guest conductors like Sir John Eliot Gardiner, Vance George, or Craig Hella Johnson! If you have any interest in conducting, this is the class for you!
Great course! I learned so much about choral conducting. In particular, the units on score study and rehearsal technique made me think a lot about how to prepare to lead an ensemble.
Andy and Beth are amazing and accessible instructors. you can learn a lot from their examples
This class was a wonderful experience, and Andy is always a very warm presence. Choral conducting is also surprisingly challenging, so practice is necessary.
Great and fun introduction to conducting - take it if you're at all interested in learning how to conduct but don't know how
What a fun class. If you like singing or want a chance to lead an ensemble through song, look no further. Yes, preparing to conduct is often challenging and difficult, but incredibly rewarding. If you currently sing in a choir, you'll have a much better appreciation of how the conductor keeps everything together.
This is an excellent course. You'll learn a lot about the mechanics of conducting as well as techniques like score study and rehearsal preparation, and you'll get a lot of experience conducting. However, you definitely won't get a lot out of it if you don't put a lot in. You can do fine on the exams without practicing or preparing much but you won't learn or improve much as a result; on the other hand, if you spend some time really learning the pieces well and working on how best to interpret and conduct them, the practice along with feedback from Joe and Andy will really improve your conducting. And although they're very specific and detailed with their feedback on your technique, you're more on your own when it comes to expression, so you won't really improve if you don't put some work into it outside of class. This is a very hands-on course; don't take it unless you're actually interested in getting practical conducting experience, as you spend a lot of class time conducting in front of the class.
It's a great class.
Take this course if you're interested in beginner's level conducting... The guidance is rather  sparse at first, and you might feel a bit nervous during the first one or two evaluations, but it gets better and better as the class goes on! Getting a chance to conduct professional musicians is a real thrill.
Don't think this will be an easy A! Take this course seriously and it will take you seriously in return. Do your homework. Learn your music. Fall in love with choral music.
This class is a great class to take seriously if you're interested in choral conducting as a career, or as a side project if it's more of a passing hobby.
This was a great class!  Practical exams were a very valuable experience.  It really gives you a new perspective, and if you're a chorister, allows you to see the other side.  I took the class because I thought conducting would be a useful skill, not because I thought I'd enjoy conducting, but I actually had a lot of fun!
It is terrifying yet invigorating to step onto a podium and conduct a group with their eyes staring into your own, but this class is beyond rewarding. Prof. Clark and Joe are there every step of the way to help you, and this is a class where you should never fear making mistakes, because a) you're going to make many and b) so is everyone else. It is just important that you try and make your best effort.
If you have ever even thought about learning how to conduct, take this class!
You definitely do learn a lot about conducting. It's difficult to figure out how you're doing in the class though. Classes are not the most helpful/relevant thing.
Great class! You learn a lot!
It's a great introductory class to conducting, a little too focused on choral works for my taste, but that was the point of the class.
Definitely do the readings because they will help with musical interpretation and basic technique. However, the most important part of the course is developing conducting technique and that can only happen through practice. Practicing without anyone to perform sounds stupid therefore it is critical that a student taking this course finds ways to practice and perfect their technique.
I loved this class!  It was more challenging than I thought, but it was so useful!
This is a fun, easy-going class. There are only two hours of class per week, and as long as you have some knowledge of choral music/music theory, you won't have to spend too much time on the assignments. However, you will only get out of this class what you put into it. In order to really improve, you need to spend extra time analyzing, practicing, and watching conductors -- even though you can easily get away with doing the minimum. Make extra appointments with Beth and Andy -- they can be really helpful -- and if you want to get into conducting seriously, get a group on campus to conduct. Although you'll get a chance to conduct the class, these conducting sessions tend to be very short and you won't get a chance to conduct rehearsals, only the "finished product." The final is really fun -- you conduct a professional group of 7-8 singers. This class was enjoyable, but I still don't feel prepared to go out and conduct my own group because the pace was generally too slow/easy-going; the beginning of the class went over very basic material, and it was only realizing that we had fallen behind schedule that the pace sped up and we really started improving.
This class gives you a great introduction to choral conducting if you have never held a baton before and refines your skills (finds points for improvement) even if you are a seasoned conductor. Remember to practice! 10 minutes a day, or even 15 minutes x 3 days a week can make a huge difference, and is not hard to do. Prepare for personal meetings - they're more productive that way.
Lack of structure, but a great way to get feedback.  Not too much work.
Be prepared to work hard.  You can learn a lot, but conducting is not something you can just wake up and do.
I greatly recommend this class! It is a very interesting subject matter that is taught very well, without the unnecessary pressure from workload.
One of the most unique and interesting courses at Harvard.
This is a fun and easy class that teaches you a lot of information that is applicable to your life if you are involved in music.
