Take this course if you need to fulfill the concentration requirement for it. It was interesting and offered a wide sampling of world music, but the field of ethno-musicology will not interest most students.
Ah, the third of the Music 97 series.  This one probably attracts the hippest group of students.  The course is very much dependent on the professor, and Marshall was great--he really knows his stuff, and has some of the coolest materials you'll find.  Check out his blog.  In my experience with the course, it was up to me to make the class worthwhile, but was definitely a good time if I put in the time and effort.
This course is not difficult, is very interesting, and I never ever felt like I was falling asleep all semester. It's a great course to take for your Music concentration, or if you're an anthropologist. It covers a lot of material, sadly not in a lot of depth, but has a wide variety of listening examples and is a sweet time!
This is actually an AMAZING course. Prof. Marshall is honestly one of the most amazing professors here! Even if you don't take the course, get to know him anyway, he's really amazing!
This is a great course. I really learned a lot, especially during the Caribbean unit, and encountered new music that I really enjoy listening to. The final project is also really enjoyable if you find a topic that you like.
This class had a lot of promise. There was just no accountability. There was not much work and it meant we just coasted through a lot of subjects by watching a lot of YouTube videos. The gamelan unit was cool, but somewhat arbitrary and it made me incredibly uncomfortable how rude the woman who ran the room was to some of the students...
if you are interested in studying music around the globe and how different genres and styles developed, this is the course for you.  i personally did not care much for most of the types of music we looked at, but that didn't prevent this course from being enjoyable
This class is a little organized and slow but gives you a deeper understanding of other types of music and an introduction to ethnomusicology
Overall, the course is great but a little fragmented because its such a broad field. You only cover three regions of the world, which is understandable. It does well for what it is: an introduction to ethnomusicology. As for homework, you'll have weekly listening guides which are totally doable and fair. Two of the three meetings a week are generally very small sections, which is nice and invites subtle pressure to always be prepared--as you can get through lectures without reading/listening. Lectures and sections have nice multimedia components.
It is literally the most amazing class at Harvard.  Professor Shellemay creates a syllabus that provides the students with unforgettable experiences.  If you are at all interested in music, this is definitely a class to take.
Professor Shelemay is amazing.
it's important to see music beyond the basic Western musical tradition, and this class does a great job of establishing some traditions to look at from a different perspective.
This course was a lot of work (I imagine you'll get the gist of that from the other comments), and a lot of the work seemed to be a bit needless. With that said, however, I think it's important to say that the course as a wholelectures, sections, videos, etc.was rewarding. The TFs and Professor Shelemay were extremely knowledgeable and well-informed, and the discussions in the course were refreshingly engaging and relevant. If you already have a tough course schedule, then maybe avoid this class, but if you're prepared for the workload, you will enjoy it. From my experience, it is definitely better overall than the other 97s.
Eye-opening course into a different body of music - Ethiopian chant, Balinese gamelan, and Middle Eastern song. The assignments could be improved significantly through a more structured introduction to the different components of each musical culture. But the trips are really enjoyable and Professor Shelemay is a fantastic resource and an enthusiastic lecturer.
this was a really fun class, and will expand your appreciation and listening of music across the board. Professor Shelemay is at the top in her field, and she is a great lecturer and person. Definitely take the time to get to know her. The TFs are also great, and each brought their own musical perspective to offer to the class.
From what I've heard (and from my own perception) 97c is the best it's been in years. It really helped me to realize that I'm a ethnomusicology person, and not many other courses in the dept allow you to do that kind of exploration. It's also just a great break/adventure from Western classical theory. The staff and Prof. Shelemay are all experts in some field, so that sort of exposure and opportunity is great.
This class challenged me to look closely at music that I perhaps might not have been exposed to. I really enjoyed this class because it gave me a lot of new music to explore and taught me a method of close listening that I can apply to all of the music I love and my future research methods.
Don't put your listening guides off to the last minute.
This is an unbelievable class--if you choose to take it make sure you really utilize the opportunity you have.  Make sure to really do the readings, because they not only are necessary for completing the work, but are essential to really understanding the music.
take it! before it gets too popular and huge!
Excellent course! There are unfortunately very few world music classes offered, and this is an excellent one for concentrators and those interested in an intensive study of the subject. Also, there were no "drop-the-needle" listening quizes, which was wise, as they would've been far more difficult than in the Western repertoire classes.
The material of this class is very interesting, and the opportunities provided are incredible (playing with master musicians in the various musical fields studied, and things like that), but the organization of this course was really not thought out very well, and Professor Wolf is not very reasonable about schedules or about timing and number of assignments. Discussions in class were more like question and answer sessions. If you're interested in the material, definitely take the course (really, don't let the Q guide scare you away, because the material and opportunities are great), but be careful with your schedule.
Only take this course if you are going to have a music concentration or music secondary.
Don't take this course if Richard Wolf is the instructor. He is dour, unwilling to make exceptions, and expects (as a mandatory requirement) more than is put on the syllabus. It's frankly inappropriate. If someone else is teaching, this could be an excellent course.
Things to expect from this class:1. The syllabus represents only half of the work you will be assigned.2. You will be forced to miss Harvard-Yale 3. The Professor Wolf honestly believes your lives revolve around him and any other obligations you might have like extra-curriculars, classes, food, sleep mean nothing to him.  He will assign work which will conflict with something you do that is also required, and he will not care.4. You will learn nothing5. You will hate ethnomusicology if you take this class6.  Professors are not bound by the syallbus they submit for the course.  They can change whatever they want, whenever they want without any regulation or consequence.  I found this out the hard way by taking this class and then talking to my resident dean about it.7. Professor Wolf assigns extra class whenever there is a school holiday.8. Your homework will be demeaning and degrading.  You will have to write book reports.  I repeat, you will have to write bood reports.  Let that sink in as you wax familiar about your elementary school days.9. Professor Wolf will see to it that you lose your will to learn.
This is a great course, that you should take if you are interested in learning about music from different world cultures. It is quite a bit of work, especially in doing the readings and listening guides every week. The most fun is in the last portion of the class when you get to learn the kora.
Prof Shelemay is really good at teaching what she knows - everything else is not as interesting because she's not as excited about it.  There is a fair amount of work but definitely manageable - just make sure you are really interested in it if you are taking it for an elective b/c otherwise it's a lot of work for the trouble.
This class will expand your musical mind, make you listen to some great music that you otherwise would probably never know about, and give you another approach to critical listening. Shelemay sometimes likes to listen to herself talk, but there is no doubt that she knows the material very well and is passionate about it, and really wants to make you passionate about it, too.
Take this class if you need a concentration requirement, I don't see a need to take it if you are going for a core requirement.
This class was interesting. There was a good balance between the history of particular peoples, and the music of each discussed society. The class is very specific though; it does not truly cover "World Music," as only Ethiopia, Bali, and the Middle East are discussed. If you wish to study the music of many societies, you may be disappointed, but what you do learn about these three regions is engaging nonetheless.
This class doesn't cover the most popular areas of world music (it does Egypt, Ethiopia, and Bali) and the Egypt and Ethiopian topics seem too similar compared to other world music like Japanese or Indian music, but Professor Shelemay is seriously one of the best in her field and very informed. There's a lot of writing assignments that are graded interestingly based on your TF, but don't worry if you don't have a ton of music background. Most of this stuff is completely foreign to music concentrators.
It's a very cool class, and I learned about music I had no idea existed before. It is a fair amount of work, but I found it really interesting and valuable.
I expected to hate the class, but it was actually okay.  Although I did not enjoy some of the case studies, I found others interesting.
Interesting material, very enthusiastic and engaging teachers, but can be a lot of work, especially if you have an untrained ear to exotic tones
It can be quite interesting and rewarding.  The case studies are quite diverse and there is a large amount of hands on work and opportunities to explore the music further.  If you have an interest in Ethiopian, Balinese, or Arab music or ethnomusicology in general definitely take the course.
Just an incredibly interesting class, and extremely well taught. If Professor Shelemay is teaching it, you absolutely must take it. It's a lot of work, but the work is pretty rewarding. I just got so much out of this class!
This is a rare opportunity to really study not only the music of other cultures, but the function of music within other cultures.
