This class was honestly kind of janky and not well put together, but I still enjoyed it nonetheless. And if you like musical theatre, or, better, love musical theatre, you will probably enjoy some part of this class. The guest speakers alone were reason enough to take the class at the time I did -- Jason Robert Brown, Kurt Crowley (music director for In the Heights tour), Alfred Uhry (book for Parade), etc. And watching people perform in class was really awesome as well.But ultimately, it was pretty disorganized and not well-structured for assignments, which most people just ending up BSing. It's very low workload and only once a week, but if you take it for what it is and just enjoy it, then I think it's worthwhile.
This class was on such a cool topic and had an incredible line up of speakers. But it was unstructured, which was really unfortunate and made it hard to take seriously. Carol Oja is lovely and the TFs were great, but the class was also so big that it became hard to treat this like a seminar and it ended up feeling more like a lecture. Though I'm glad everyone got to take the class since it was an incredible opportunity, it probably would have been better as a seminar.
If you are prepared to make sacrifices for the sake of the resident artist and the popularity of this class in order to work with the resident artist and others.
In its current format, this class is way more trouble than it's worth. Students are expected to run discussion and give presentations, such that Professor Oja and the TFs rarely spoke. It felt like I wasn't being taught anything. The assignments are a pain because the expectations are not clear. The guest speakers are cool when they don't usurp your entire final project.
Only take this class if the visiting artist is Lin-Manuel Miranda, in which case his presence would probably mitigate the unbearable nature of this class. There is no structure, there are no themes, there is nothing connecting the beginning of the class to the end, you are taught nothing and so you learn nothing, and neither professor Oja nor her teaching staff seemed at all interested in doing anything remotely approaching teaching, instead passing off the work of lecture presentations and even logistical organization to students. Truly the most poorly designed, poorly executed class I have ever taken.
This class was GOLDEN. Seriously, deciding to take it even though it was just an elective was probably one of the best academic choices I've ever made. I never didn't want to do the work (there wasn't that much work anyway, and it was all interesting!) and having the opportunity to work closely with JRB and to meet all of the other fantastic guests was just awesome. But, I'm pretty sure it's not going to be offered again. If it is though, and you have any passing interest in music or musical theater, then absolutely take it!! Prof. Oja is also one of my favorite professors!
If you have an interest in musical theater, the course is a fun opportunity to interact with practitioners in the field. That being said, the course has no central question and the assignments feel more like busy work than a relevant test of the course material.
Wonderful chance to meet and learn about the processes of some of the greatest artists working in musical theater today
This is a very easy class, but you will not learn anything.
Interacting so closely with Jason Robert Brown was definitely an experience.  We had some interesting events and classes, but overall the course was disorganized and unfocused.  I think it would have been a lot more successful as a small seminar.
This course was an absolute waste of time. I expected it to be so much more enriching and informative than it actually was. There was absolutely no course structure and Jason Robert Brown, who was the reason I took the course to begin with, was a complete and utter disappointment. After my first interaction with Brown, I was completely turned off to working with him at all for the rest of the semester. He is extremely rude and appallingly inappropriate in the way he interacts with students. The seminar basically consisted of us being talked at by Brown, other guest artists, and/or the teaching staff for two hours a week. It was difficult to participate and be engaged with. Even though it was easy, I encourage you to take a more work-intensive, enriching course.
It was a fantastically fun class, and I'm happy I took it. My only reservation is that this year it was way too large. If the class had been capped at a seminar of 15 people, with no grad students, I would've enjoyed the class much more. As someone who is less inclined to talk in class when everyone is trying to get a word in, I felt that the discussions weren't as inclusive or productive as they could've been. I definitely think that the size of the class made me enjoy it less.
It's certainly a very easy course. Very chill. It's a good 5th class if you like musical theater.
