Take it, particularly if there are no gamelan projects.
you won't learn too much from the course instruction, but you will grow as a composer and it does provide an excellent and sometimes fun stimulus to compose and hear your own piece
great course; enjoyable, engaging, felt like making progress throughout semester in terms of complexity of music writing and incorporating ideas into the music
Good practice in composing, but expect a lot of your development to come from personal time investments.
Great for non-music concentrators with an interest in composing in a relatively unstructured, free environment.
Not exactly the most structured or most well-taught class ever, but it is interesting and fun to compose, and you get to practice composing music. To top it off, assignments are mostly enjoyable and easy.
If you are interested in composition or songwriting but don't have much formal experience with it, then I would wholeheartedly recommend this course. Dr. Netzer is a phenomenal teacher and is incredibly passionate about music of all types. Some of the music you study in this course may seem a bit strange at first, especially if you aren't familiar with contemporary classical music, but it is relevant to understanding how to best express your own musical ideas.
This was hands down the best course I've ever taken at Harvard. It does exactly what it's designed to do - to introduce students with minimal background in music and theory to writing music. But do beware that the course does not cover any musical theory. Despite that fact, the course does a great job of teaching every other aspect of writing music, and for someone who has never written any music prior to this course, I am now confident in my writing abilities. It was one of the most wonderful experiences in my life to hear the music I've written come to life, as it was played by several professional musicians who were invited by the teaching staff to play our music. Professor Netzer and Manuela are extremely passionate about what they do and are so helpful. I'd highly recommend this course to anyone interested in learning how to write music, even if you have never written a single note in your life before.
This class is great for people who don't have any background in composing, and don't have any background in theory. Although, I wish the class was a little more open to people who do have some theory knowledge, it was still a great way to start composing and has really made me appreciate the value of composition in improving you as a musician in the future
This is a fun class where your compositions can be performed by experts. Many basic concepts such as using common tones are covered on how to write a good composition.
This class allows you to explore writing music, which is awesome. The class started in a more advanced place than expected and the final project was to write a string quartet. I definitely wasn't thinking we would do anything so advanced, but it has been beneficial for me as someone who wants to write music. If you like music, this is a cool elective but it isn't as easy as it appears. If you don't like music, maybe you shouldn't take this course...
Take this course if you have even the slightest interest in composition. Take this course if you don't care for composition, have never composed before, or even know what composition means. It will change your life, let alone your harvard undergraduate experience.
A truly great class, a lot of work but it is worth it
BEWARE OF THIS CLASS IF YOU ARE A BEGINNER OR THINK THIS WILL BE A NICE FUN ELECTIVE. I took this class as someone who has 12+ years of classical piano experience, and still found the assignments extremely challenging and the last assignment (writing an entire 5 minute string quartet) was absolutely impossible. However, composing your own pieces and having a recording of them forever is a great feeling, despite challenges that lead to the final product. The grading is nice and overall it is a very safe learning environment for beginners, but Dr. Netzer can be extremely harsh and critical, which especially mortifying when your piece is played in front of the whole class. I repeat, this is NOT a class for beginners, even though it is promoted as so. DO NOT TAKE if you are wishing for an easy elective or even think you have a little music experience.
Definitely give this course a try. It has its flaws, like the unnecessary coursebook and requirement that every composition be handwritten. However, it's ultimately worth it - especially hearing what you write brought to life by professional musicians. The work load is moderate to light, until the final project, when it's considerably heavy.
Great introductory course for enthusiasts in music composition. Well taught and organized in an effective manner. It allows for musical creativity and offers unique experience with professional groups. Thoroughly enjoyed the class and encourage students to take it.
It's fun and very fluid!  If you're looking a creative outlet one semester, this is an excellent choice!
Oznat and Marta were absolutely incredible and very encouraging. It always felt like a safe environment when presenting our pieces, and there was never any comparison between students, which allowed for one to feel comfortable with their level of musical knowledge. The course opens you to various types of music that were all interesting and exciting. Great class!
It moves very slowly, and it's very basic, so if you're music literate it can get rather tedious.
Music 4 is an excellent class for beginners in composition. Nearly everything is taught, from the basic music theory, to how string instruments work. In this class, the compositions were all played in class with minor feedback, with a section component where more detailed advice was given. The teaching was excellent, the assignments were clear in their objective. Overall, excellently planned.
This class is amazing! Take it!
The class requires some time, but if you enjoy music it's worth taking it as an elective.
If you are seeking a course that combines both analytical thinking to improve your understanding of the world, Music 4 is the course for you! You learn so much about how music functions through composing and Professor Beaudoin is the best professor you will ever have. I only wish he could teach all of my classes. Everyone with any interest in music should consider taking this course. You have to go through a lottery first though, so unless you are a senior or junior, you won't lottery in.
Know that you'll spend time on things other than how to write music, such as philosophical questionns regarding music.
Beaudoin is the best, and this course is the best. That's all there is to say. Take it.
A great class to learn the basics of music composition and counter the learning styles often found in science and social science classes. Prof. Beaudoin is quite possibly the best instructor and lecturer at Harvard.
Definitely requires a lot of time but it's fun and worth it!
Music 4, by far, has been the best class I have ever taken in my entire college career.  I loved going to class.  I definitely put extra effort into all of my compositions and am very happy with how they turned out.  If you do not have the time to fully commit to your compositions, don't take this class.
Wonderful class. One of the best I have taken. Beaudoin is amazing.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard.  Come prepared to immerse yourself in lots of music, from baroque to experimental contemporary music, and to engage in the creation of new music as a composer.  It can be scary to have this license but I felt supported.  Professor Beaudoin is engaging, passionate, kind, helpful, and exacting in a good way, and I loved coming to lecture.  It was so exciting to have my music performed by the likes of the Chiara String Quartet.  This class is an experience that you can really only get at a place like Harvard, and I fully recommend taking advantage of this incredible opportunity.
An incredible and rewarding class. No other class here will challenge you in the same way (except perhaps in studio art or creative writing). It will change the way you listen to and think about music. Take it!
Probably the best course I've taken at Harvard.  Don't miss this one before you graduate.
Honestly, it's an amazing course. Beaudoin is my favorite professor at Harvard and Music 4 gives you a great chance to compose music, especially if you've never done so before. Be prepared to put some solid effort into your music.
Take the compositions seriously--they take a lot of time, and you'll be prouder of your work if you give it your all.
This has been my favorite Harvard class thus far.  The lectures are interesting, funny, and engaging.  The assignments allow for much creativity, but the feedback helps you to recognize your own strengths and weaknesses.  Unlike most classes, I did not feel as though I was working towards a grade, but rather towards a deeper understanding of the material.
Music 4 has been one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard.  Composition is an incredibly interested subject and the small class size restriction means that all your fellow students are intensely interested in the subject as well.  On top of that Professor Beaudoin is phenomenal - he gives the most lucid explanations, selects wonderful examples, and has a contagious enthusiasm.  Ian is phenomenal as well - his sections did so much to make a lot of the mechanics of what was going on very clear.  If you happen to read this - thanks so much for a wonderful class!
Dr. Beaudoin is the standout reason to take this class, as he is incredibly engaging when he speaks and diligent in his preparations for and attentiveness to the course. The compositions are incredibly rewarding when they are performed by professionals, and you learn a lot about thinking out of the box as a composer.
TAKE IT.
Professor Beaudoin really makes an effort to craft an amazing class that teaches you to explore and discover your own style of composing.  The assignments really push you out of your comfort zone, and it's a great way to explore creativity through composing.  This is an awesome class, and if you're interested in composing at all, this course is definitely for you!
This is by far the best class I've taken in my life.  It is extremely fun, and Professor Beaudoin and the TF (Ian) do a great job of making lecture and section engaging and educational.  You not only get exposed to all sorts of composition techniques and other composers' works, but you also get a chance to do your own composition, which is all recorded for you to keep after the course ends.  The work is not only not a lot, but also very fun and fulfilling, and is perfect as an elective.
This is a great class! You get what you put into it, however, so you'll probably be spending longer on assignments than you would for another random elective, but the assignments are all really enjoyable!
Take this class. Don't ask questions. If you love music, take this class. You will truly understand what it means to communicate through music.
This is a great class and Professor Beaudoin is an amazing professor.  I would highly recommend this class to anyone if they wish to explore music composition.
Music 4 was a great introduction into composition because it offered a perfect balance of structure and freedom. The best part was hearing our music performed in-class by professional ensembles.
The experiences are unparalleled for a course with few prerequisites.
It's a great way to stick time into your schedule for writing music. Furthermore, Prof. Beaudoin and Karola are excellent and highly-available teachers, and it is worthwhile to study with them. The music studied is extremely interesting and, more importantly, inspiring.
To shop it if they are interested in music, especially if it is taught by Professor Beaudoin and Karola Obermueller.  But warn them that there are regular assignments, although it is not too big of a time commitment.
Be self motivated if you want to get anything out of this class.
A fantastic opportunity to explore compositional skills and techniques
This is a great class if you're interested in learning more about composition.
This class is a great way to get some compositional experience without the restrictions typically given by theory courses.  It is basically free reign to write what you desire to write.  The discussions are also very interesting.
A fantastic course for anyone even slightly interested in composition.  Prof. Beaudoin is extremely dedicated and a great teacher.
If you want a fun music course in a small classroom setting with a great professor, take this course!
I never missed this class - this is the first and only time this has happened in the last four years.To give some context, I can count on one hand the number of times I went to my hist class this semester. So going to every single Music 4 lecture is a huge deal for me.
The discussions on music are fascinating, the assignments are lots of fun (though can be time consuming if you get too ambitious). If you like good music, you'll like this course.
Definitely take it.
The sense of accomplishment that you feel hearing your compositions being played is unparalleled by any other feeling of accomplishment that I have experienced at Harvard.  This is a must take course for anyone interested in music.
Don't expect a class that provides rigid rules for composing, though the course does help to deconstruct musical expression into understandable and malleable elements.  Overall, this class provides innovative ways of exploring your musical creativity.
This course is a fun way to either learn more about music or to continue to explore music. It's particularly good if you are in another concentration and do not have the time for more intensive theory courses. This is a fun course that allows you to explore your passion and even gets you off campus for concerts.
This class is great and works a part of your brain that most Harvard classes don't. Dr. Netzer and Manuela are gems, as well, and though they will be tough, they really are committed to helping you do your best.
This class is really amazing. It gives you time to focus and work on something and have pieces performed by amazing people.
