All serious instrumentalists should enroll in this course. The skills you learn working in a chamber ensemble are invaluable and the Parker Quartet and Heng-Jin Park are fantastic instructors that provide a lot of musical insight  and guidance. This class will help you mature as a musician and will be a wonderful change-of-pace from the other classes you take.
If you want to play chamber music at Harvard I think taking this class is the best way. It is some work trying to find time to meet before coachings but it's definitely worth it at the final concert.
I was in a chamber group all throughout high school, and this course was a great way to stay involved in that and maintain a balanced class schedule. The Parker Quartet is great.
Don't take the class as an "easy A" unless you are positive you can get through your pieces - but then again, no one does "easy" pieces.
If you have a background in a musical instrument, I would absolutely take this class!!! It's such a great way to learn and be creative outside of the rote memorization of many classes at Harvard.  You will learn a lot from your fellow chamber group members, and the Parker Quartet and Heng-Jin are fantastic people and musicians that you will learn so much from. It will take practicing and hard work outside of the course, but it's so fulfilling.
Great class for learning about different types of chamber music.
This is a course where you get out of it what you put into it. For a group to succeed, there must be a student-led motivation to rehearse for several hours a week outside of coaching.
Chamber music has been one of the highlights of my years at Harvard -- I highly recommend finding a group with friends and participating! The coaching is wonderful (Hengjin and the Parker quartet are amazing musicians).
Heng-Jin is a great coach! The members of the Parker Quartet also had insightful comments on our playing though they weren't our main coaches.
Always a fun and rewarding!
It was an incredible opportunity to work with such esteemed musicians.
It is a wonderful opportunity to play somewhat organized chamber music with peers and really to work intensively on a piece and to polish it by the end of the semester for a performance.
Parker Quartet is amazing! Their feedbacks are very helpful, and if you take their advice seriously, you will see your improvements at the end of the semester very clearly.
Choose your own groups! It's much more fun to be playing with people you know already.
This class is essentially determined by how much time and effort you put in. You can choose to put in as little or as much time as you want, but ultimately you set your own expectations for your chamber group. The coachings can be very valuable depending on your instructor.
I absolutely loved this class.  The community and musicianship are unparalleled, and I can't wait to sign up for another semester!  The coaches are all extremely talented and down-to-earth, the peer group is really inspiring, and the low pressure atmosphere means this class doesn't even feel like work.
If you would like to have fun playing chamber music and work hard to polish your piece, this is the class from you.
It is a wonderful experience to make music with a handful of fine musicians. Chamber music is the best.
Choose group members beforehand who are committed and willing to practice and cooperate. Score study, talk about how you intend to shape phrases, record yourself to hear if these intentions are legible. Don't wait until mid semester to learn the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th mvmts, start early.
This was by far one of my favorite classes of the semester: I would strongly recommend this class to anyone interested in playing some chamber music at a high level.
It's helpful to form a group beforehand. Definitely a great experience, and I would take it again.
The Parker Quartet is one of the best things that have ever happened to chamber music at Harvard! They are phenomenal and articulate, supportive and kind and generous (although they could afford to be a bit tougher and a bit more authoritative).
This course is one of the most hands-on of the music courses here and is informative even for beginner-level musicians
I had an enormous amount of fun throughout the semester in 189. Working with the Parker Quartet was extremely rewarding, and the coachings were great. Of course, much of my enjoyment of the course probably derives from my being placed in a chamber group I liked, so if you're interested, try to find a good chamber group beforehand.
The Parker Quartet is fantastic, Heng-Jin is fantastic, the course is fantastic. TAKE IT
An opportunity to experience chamber music of an extremely high caliber, as well as become part of a close community.
The opportunity to work with members of the Parker Quartet was a wonderful opportunity. This is definitely a class in which you get as much out of the class as you put into it.
This is a great way to continue playing classical music at a high level, with fantastic instruction, in a relatively stress-free environment. If you're a pianist: be ready to power through a lot of music very fast; pieces are long and tough, and you're expected to play the entire piece at performance level, not just a movement. I highly recommend this class- I met a lot of great people through it, and got to interact with one of the best chamber groups in the country- the Parker Quartet.
TAKE IT, it doesnt even feel like a class!
This course will give back how much you put into it. If you take the advice of the coaches and practice it with heart, you will learn quite a lot. Take this chance to work with such an excellent group of musicians!
This class is absolutely fantastic. Take it if you can: you will not regret working with the Parker Quartet and Ms. Park.
You will learn an incredible amount about ensemble playing while also improving your own technique. The instructors are kind, knowledgeable and accessible, and you'll make great friends with peers in the music department. Take this course!!
The Parkers are the bomb.
This is a very fun and rewarding course. The feedback you will receive will help to make you a more conscious and aware musician.
great way to play chamber music and learn a lot!
The Parker Quartet provides a space for individual as well as musical growth by presenting clear expectations, demanding excellence, and caring deeply about the experience of the student.
A very structured way to learn a lot about chamber music from a great set of coaches and a good way to learn about music from your peers.
A great class! Very fun to play with your friends.
The Parkers are great! Make sure when going into it, to get together a group with shared priorities on the level of commitment you are willing to put in (e.g. rehearsal time).
Great course! Would recommend.
It's ESPECIALLY important that you go into this class with an ensemble group already in mind. Make sure that these people are also 100% committed and will be EASY to schedule with because you do need to figure out times on your own outside of coaching sessions to practice. This course is also mainly for experienced musicians, since all the other students are likely to be playing at a high caliber.
All of the coaches are excellent, and I think my musical abilities improved a lot. Music 189 was one of the best experiences of my semester.
If you are a musician, you cannot afford not to take this class. The Parker Quartet is literally a gift to Harvard, they will improve you as a person and a musician. The course requires minimal time commitment - just one hour coaching each week - but it is easily the most bang for your buck you can get.
great class! lots of fun; just be prepared to spend some time outside of coachings to rehearse with your group.
a course taken at your own pace, and a great way to put any work you put into chamber music on paper.
Great peers, music, coaches, and group classes
I absolutely love Music 189! I've taken it 3 times and it's been my favorite class each semester I've done it. The teaching staff is amazing, both in terms of musical knowledge/teaching skill and personal kindness.
If you want to play chamber music and have an ensemble at the ready, this low-stress class is a great way to find performance opportunities and receive credit for what you are doing.
very good chamber music playing and instruction, some strange rules and things that are in place.
This is an amazing opportunity to play chamber music with friends and learn from all the Parker Quartet's musical teachings.
parker quartet is great
There are very, very, very few music performance classes at Harvard. If you play a chamber instrument and want to continue with it in a non-competitive way, take this class. Fantastic!
If you want an opportunity to play chamber music at Harvard, I would definitely recommend taking this class.
You are working with Grammy-award winning Parker Quartet- that is enough of an incentive to join this class.
Music 189R is best when you come in with a pre-formed group you're excited to play with, or when you're matched with people with similar music interests to you.
This is a fantastic course! The Parker Quartet is phenomenal at teaching, and we never fail to have fun in this class. By the end of the semester, it was clear that we all improved leaps and bounds from the beginning.
This is a super fun and relaxed class. Take it!
This course is phenomenal and I will probably take it every semester that I am at Harvard! I loved the weekly coachings and enjoyed the flexibility of determining my own rehearsal and coaching schedule. The class is definitely what you make of it, and you get out what you put in! Approach the class seriously and rehearse a lot to get the most out of the course and make sure that you go into the class with a pre-formed group.
This is a chance to get coached by the Parker Quartet. Do it!
Great way to play chamber music at Harvard. Extremely talents coaches and colleagues.
The class is great, but is better if you have a group before hand because you never know who you are going to end up with and sometimes it sucks!
Jessica Bodner is an amazing coach! She is thoughtful and provides excellent feedback/comments during every coaching.
The Parker Quartet is awesome. So talented, really great teachers, and super patient with everyone. I haven't met teachers who are at such a high level who are also so down to earth. Definitely take this course if you like music and want to keep it in your schedule without having it eat up all your time. Also, Jessica is one of the nicest people on earth, if you can request her definitely do it.
Music 189 has in some ways been the best part of my college experience so far (not so much the class itself, but the people and the coaches I've worked with through the course). It provides performance opportunities and the chance to play with others who love music. The Parker quartet members are inspiring musicians, and Hengjin Park (who is unfortunately leaving) is a brilliant pianist and person with whom to work.If you want to get the most out of this course, I would try to find people you know you get along with / are compatible with, because it is difficult to enjoy music unless you like the company as well.
It's an amazing opportunity to play chamber music.
Does NOT count for music concentration credit... As of now.
Chamber is such a great course, I wish I had taken it during more semesters. The Parker Quartet and Heng-Jin are SO great (although Heng-Jin will not be teaching the course anymore, which sucks for future students because she is amazing). Definitely take it if you are an advanced enough instrumentalist to get in; it's really fun and a nice change of pace from all the papers and psets at Harvard to be able to bond with your chamber group and play some great music. Low stress, high reward class.
One of the most enjoyable classes at Harvard! If you are a good instrumentalist who enjoys playing with friends and improving your skills, by all means take this class! I came in with little to no chamber music experience, but the coaches offer extremely helpful feedback, and you build strong bonds with your ensemble as your ensemble and your coach tackles a challenging piece of chamber music together.
This class is a whole lot of fun. You get introduced to a lot of new music that you may or may not have heard before played in new and interesting ways.
The Parker Quartet and Heng-Jin provide incredible chamber music instruction. This course is fantastic whether you are interested in playing serious chamber music for fun or pre-professionally.
Although some parts are a little derivative, the course overall is great and allows you to play music in a concert setting at college.
It's a great experience to work with and alongside such talented musicians.
If you want to perform and are willing to put in many hours, definitely find a group or audition for 189 because working with the Parker Quartet is life changing!
If you are a high level musician and want to continue to pursue classical chamber music, then it is worth taking Music 189.
very fun class to take for musicians
Find people you want to make good music with, find repertoire you want to play, and the class will be a rewarding experience.
This class doesn't feel like a class--you just play some great music and get feedback from wonderful coaches! Definitely take it. It's largely self-run and you get what you put into it, so it can get to be quite a lot of work if you put yourself to a high standard. Overall it's a great thing to have on your plate.
