The best class I have taken here! Teaches in a fresh new way that makes you learn and develop on so many levels, not just in dance/improv.
This course provided a wonderful atmosphere allowing us to grow as students, dancers, and people.  I really have learned so much about myself and the intersections of dance and the academic world in a way I never thought I would. It's a little difficult to be physically awake and present for two two-hour dance lectures during the week, but once you get moving you're so glad you did.
The course expands the students ideas about dance, and fosters the learning and exploration processes of students in many positive ways.
I can't recommend this class strongly enough. It was pivotal in changing the way I think about what I create in my life, from choreography to other assignments to my art to the way I hold my body to the way I interact with others. It is such a special opportunity to be able to take an academic class on choreographic thinking -- to distinguish dance as more than a practical tool to move around bodies and instead as an entire field of teaching and learning that has so much importance in our cultural development. If you would classify yourself as a physical learner, i.e. someone who wants to be shown, someone who feels fabrics before you buy clothes, someone who hugs, this class will resonate with you in a way you will never expect. Even if you're not, take this class to expand your mind and learn about entirely new ways of thought. You'll gain a new family!
This class opens an infinite possibility of dance; embrace all styles, all movements.  In class we learn a modality, such as sphereing the arms or drawing the room with a particular body part.  Then music comes on and we improvise on that idea, exploring different spaces where the modality can exist.  We also have conversations talking about our ideas and experiences with improvising.  We also compose dance phrases and perform them for each other.  This is a mind-opening and liberating class, and Jill certainly takes all ideas and all students seriously.  We also learn about body formation in opposition and about different dance theorists' innovations e.g.Laban's points.  One learns to see and to explore without having a clear goal.
