A very mature and advanced approach to composition - very open, very free, you are considered independent and an adult and allowed to approach composing however you'd like with wonderful opportunities for critique and suggestions from the other students and from Professor Czernowin.
Take this class if you want a very loosely structured semester of composition and developing and honing your skills at composition with a small group of other composers!
if you want a class to really compose whatever you want, then take this class.  if you are looking for instruction and help on composing, you wont really get it.  it is more an independent endeavor, which you will receive some guidance on.
The class is very flexible, and a great opportunity to compose basically whatever you want (so long as it's inspired, personal, and well-thought-out), get extensive feedback from your peers and from the professor throughout the whole composition process, and have your piece performed at the end of the semester.
This is a low-workload class that allows you to write two pieces.
If you're a composer, JLA is awesome to work with.
This is a structured seminar for composers. If you compose a great deal outside of class, why not take it? In addition, it provides the opportunity to have your work performed and recorded, a highly valuable exercise. Of course, the structure of this course will vary year to year depending on who's teaching it.
Although in terms of sheer quantity of work, this class is pretty easy, be prepared to think like you've never thought before.
Chaya is a fantastic teacher, and her insight and perspicacity often leave you speechless. Jump at the opportunity to take this course. IMPORTANT: DO NOT BE SCARED AWAY BY MUSIC DEPT. REQUIREMENTS OF "FOUR SEMESTERS OF THEORY OR MUSIC 150 OR EQUIVALENT." If you have a background in composition, just come talk to Chaya and show her a few scores.
I will tell future students that Professor Czernowin is an excellent musician but that the course structure is totally insufficient to actually help composers out.
This class is a great chance to work with both an esteemed member of the composition faculty at Harvard (in our case, Professor Czernowin) and to share your work wih and learn from your peers. It is run kind of like a graduate seminar, with a few skill-building exercises and a final composition project (and performance), and most class sessions involve students presenting a piece or some work in progress to be class. The discussions that follow each presentation are invaluable; you can learn a great deal about just about everything from talking thoughtfully with peers and professors. Other classes were essentially lessons with Professor Czernowin, which are also incredibly interesting and useful. This is a food class to take if you are comfortable composing and looking to dig in and develop yourself as a composer more deeply.
It's so good, I'm taking it again.
If you're a composer you should take it. It will be your favourite class: I guarantee it.
Music 161r was excellent this semester--one of the best composition courses I have taken thus far at Harvard. Chaya gave extremely helpful advice, and I felt like I grew greatly this semester as a composer; my final composition for this course ended up being one of my best pieces yet. The opportunity to work with the Parker Quartet is an equally rare and humbling for any composer--they are unbelievably gifted, yet very kind musicians.
Anyone is able to take this class. However, because of Chaya and the TF's level of insight, composers with a few years of maturity under their belt will benefit more than a more beginner composer.
Chaya is a fantastic teacher, the best I've ever had. I highly recommend this.
Professor Czernowin has a lot of extremely insightful things to say about composition, but it would have been helpful to receive more private instruction from her. We had very few (and short) private lessons, and as a result I didn't really grow as much as I could have from her expertise. The course was a mix of seminar format and private lessons, but I thought some of the group meetings could have been replaced by private lessons.
The more you put into this class, the more you get out of it. I highly recommend putting more effort than you absolutely have to into this class.
Chaya is a fantastic teacher and you will get great feedback from her. The class is worth taking even if solely to develop a relationship/contact with her for the future. But more than that, she has drastically influenced my approach to writing music.
This is an excellent course to take if you've written some music for yourself but have never had the experience of receiving (and giving) detailed critiques of it.  I felt that my creative horizons had expanded significantly from the beginning to the end of the course, though not without a decent amount of struggle at the beginning.  Also, Trevor Baca alone could make any class worth taking.  Highly recommended, even for people like me who are not music concentrators.
This course probably needs to be completely overhauled before I would consider taking it againenrollment for the course ended up being significantly higher than the teaching staff anticipated, but the teaching staff did not make changes to the course in order to accommodate for this reality. To their credit, this was the first time they had a Music 161r class this big, so they were experimenting as well. However, certain things were inexcusable, especially the abysmal time management on the part of the teaching staff. With 18 students and only two hours of class time a week, the teaching staff still had us all present both of our compositional exercises in front of the entire class, with plenty of comments of theirs in addition despite our constant running out of time. This meant that only about 10 minutes out of 113 were actually devoted to learning new material. In a sense, we did all our learning on our own, and during lecture, we presented and commented on each others work instead of actually discussing examples during lecturethe teaching staff, in a sense, did not teach.
This class was unique this semester because there were so many students enrolled (we had 18 students in the course). Given that this class is usually a much smaller size and the course staff was not ready to accommodate for so many students, this made the course pretty unorganized and rushed at times, plus we didn't get much individual time to work with Chaya or the TF's in the first half of the course. That being said, the TF's and Chaya were very accessible during the final month when we were working on the final project, and hearing the Parker Quartet perform my piece has got to be one of the highlights of my musical experiences that I've had my four years at Harvard. The only reason I gave this course a 3 is because of the size--if the class is more suited for a bigger class size or if the class size is smaller in the future, I would highly recommend the course since Chaya knows so much about composing and music in general.
This class is for composers who would like to practice some basic skills while having the platform for their music to be performed. It is pretty disorganized and you get little feedback on your work (so your grade might be bad), but it is a good experience.
I would mention that Tim and Manuela are the best TFs ever.
Studying and experimenting with sound from the role of the composer will change your musical world!
This is a wonderful course if you're looking for a high-level guided exploration of abstract musical material.  It is the sonic version of an abstract art course, where you treat sound for its own sake, and paint a sonic image of your very own imagining.  Chaya is a magnificent composer and instructor who interweaves her musical brilliance with her great sense of humor and enthusiasm.
If this class has a lot of people in it, run away. You won't be doing much substantive work with a lot of feedback. Chaya does not lecture. You will find out that "advanced" composition is a relative term.
If you are interested in music composing in any way, take it. This term's version was not limited to any particular medium (like scores), which was a great stimulant for creativity and originality
Josh won't be teaching it again, so my feedback won't be too useful, but I had a generally positive experience!
Set a lot of time for this class if you want to get a lot out of it.
