One of the most fun classes I've taken!
This class is a wonderful introduction to musical ethnography. Professor Shelemay selects useful readings to give students an idea of the resources out there, and the final projects are perfectly tailored for a semester-long class.
It is a really memorable experience, and Professor Shelemay is a fantastic teacher.
This is a fantastic opportunity to develop your fieldwork skills and reading of ethnographic observations under the supervision of a leader in the field.
I would recommend it to anyone considering doing ethnographic research, both in the music department and out.
Even if you think you know how to do ethnography, this course will teach you how to get yourself organized and give you a chance to discuss your process and share experiences with your peers.
This is a useful course for professional development, developing confidence in teaching and communicating, and learning about what other scholars are doing in the field, literally.
come to this class ready for adventure and be willing to be surprising and often fail at what you're trying to do! it's invaluable practice for later fieldwork.
Take this course! Prof. Shelemay is fantastic.
This class is wonderful if you plan to do any future studies in ethnomusicology or if you have already completed research and are trying to figure out how to present your findings.
This course is accessible to undergraduates.
Get started on your term project early so you can make the most of this opportunity to get involved in field work.
You'll be expected and/or encouraged to participate in a lot of activities outside of class, in addition to doing some fieldwork.
you will spend a lot of hours on your project, but since you get to choose something that interests you, it should be very rewarding work
If you are at all thinking of pursuing a career in ethnomusicology or simply in writing an ethnography, this course is a great introduction to the research side, and provides a great opportunity for original research within the confines of the class.
