This course is unique, and I would recommend for anyone with even a minute interest in opera - for me, I have always enjoyed musical theatre, so this seemed logical.  I was amazed by how much depth there is in operatic history, and Professor Abbate's lectures are fascinating!  She strikes a great balance between history and musical examples.
Fantastic class! I actively wanted to go to lecture and to do the listenings each week. Prof Abbate is great and the TF Hayley is amazing!
If you're looking for a course to learn about the Opera tradition and repertoire, definitely consider taking this course.
This is a great course. Professor Abbate is one of the most talented lecturers I've seen at Harvard -- it is worth it to audit the class just to hear her beautiful and insightful lectures. The TF, Hayley, is delightful and crazy passionate. Very accessible for non-music experts (if you are an avid musician, you may have to do some outside reading/score study to get that aspect of it). I loved music and had no interest in opera before I took this class: now I'm an opera fiend! Definitely a class to take a chance on if you're open to growing!
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard, or indeed any other academic institution. It was incredibly well-taught, the material and the lectures are engaging, and Hayley is the best. 10/10 would recommend this class!
Professor Abbate and Hayley make this class so awesome in addition to learning and viewing incredible opera works.
If you have even an inkling of interest in opera, this course will spark a flame of passion for the genre.
This course is incredible! Carolyn is a wonderful lecturer who really weaves the story of opera history in an engaging and informative way. Also, a lot of the readings are primary sources, which is exciting. Throughout the course, I really began to appreciate opera and understand it, when before it was foreign and not something I particularly enjoyed. But now I can imagine myself attending opera performances, which says something about how amazing this course is!
I took this class on a whim as a senior, and it was an excellent choice. Prof Abbate is incredibly knowledgeable (and wrote a book on opera history), and Hayley is a joy to have as a TF. The workload is super manageable, and the assignments are interesting and fun. If you play an instrument and are curious about vocal music, or you sing in choir like I do, or you adore opera and want to know its history, or you hate opera and want this class to change your mind, I wholeheartedly recommend this class!
The class is great and super interesting!  Professor Abbate is such a pleasure to listen to especially as she is such a leading scholar in the field.  Just be on top of your grades - both Abbate and Hayley are very willing to help you, just reach out!
This class is an incredible introduction and overview of the opera genre, appropriate both for those with no prior experience and opera singers. Lectures are incredibly engaging, and you learn so much about opera throughout its entire existence. Assignments are fun and interesting, and sections are very well-run and help you synthesize material. I would recommend this course to anyone even potentially interested, as Professor Abbate and Hayley make opera fun and engaging for everyone.
The professor is incredible, Abbates is actually a rockstar. The exams however are very hard. The listening quizzes are particularly difficult.
Even if you're not sure how much you like opera, you should consider taking this class. I learned a ton about musical history, I knew essentially nothing about opera going in and I like it much better now, and it's a great lecture class with straight forward requirements. Definitely the best class I took this semester.
