187 is a good class to take if you have a great group.  if you don't have a good group, it may weigh you down and make you feel cynical about the state of music in your life.
187 is good for you
making music with other students and a wonderful coach, what's not to love?
Be careful what you wish for, and be prepared to work hard.
Take this course every semesterit'll keep you (relatively) sane, the coaches are wonderful, and you'll be able to use it as an excuse to spend time practicing or rehearsing instead of sleeping!
If you like playing music with friends and getting coached once a week by great musicians, take this course!
If you like playing your instrument and love chamber music, do it. If you have never played chamber but would like to try it out, do it.
Music 187 is a wonderful class for anyone who has any interest whatsoever in chamber music performance. It's not nearly as demanding as Music 180, and both Kris and Heng-Jin are incredibly helpful coaches. If you're looking for a very demanding chamber music experience, this probably isn't the class for you, but it was an enjoyable experience, and one I hope to repeat many times while at Harvard.
Music 187 is a wonderful class. It gives you the opportunity to work closely with your peers, receive professional feedback, and learn more about music in general and performance. You will learn a lot about how to work effectively in a group and how to deal with constructive criticism. Be sure to play in a group of students that is dedicated and willing to put in rehearsal time. It will be a rewarding experience.
be prepared to be committed to working with others and having the time to improve your playing. I love it and plan to take it every semester!
This is a great course to take if you are interested in performing chamber music. Especially if you are bogged down with academic work at Harvard, this course is great for taking a step back and enjoying one's love for music.
A good break from normal classes, just making music with friends and constructive feedback from a coach.
Really detailed and artistically insightful coach, got to study some awesome music
Kris is an amazing coach. He is really inspiring and enthusiastic and really draws the musicality out of us!
Definitely do this!  As a pianist, you probably need to put in more effort than all the string players in your group, but it's worth it.
It is a wonderful way to keep playing chamber music!
this course is a lot of fun especially if you like chamber music, but even if not.  this was my first time playing in an ensemble, and i felt like i made tremendous growth.  heng-jin is a great coach.  overall, i had a very good time
Highly recommended for musicians. A great way to play chamber music and get valuable coachings with a relatively low time commitment.
Kris Tong is the best coach ever!
Take advantage of the structured, weekly coachings and the ability to engage in chamber music in an instructional setting (as opposed to sight-reading for fun.) It's truly a privilege to be able to take this course!Kris or Heng-Jin are by far a better bet for coaches.
Music 187 was an enjoyable class, and it did not feel like a class but more like an extracurricular activity. It's a great way to keep up with chamber music! Both the coaches and the students are wonderful.
hooray
If you wish to take this class as a wind/brass player, it may be worthwhile to wait until there is a wind/brass coach on staff.
It's a wonderful class that gives us busy Harvard musicians a break and opportunity to do some real music-making.
Try to choose a group before hand. You may have a more enjoyable experience.
It is a great opportunity to work on a chamber work with a group of your choice.
This course can be powerful when you have a good group and when every musician is absolutely committed to the project of working together towards the goal of playing well-thought-out, passionate chamber music.  This means that players should be communicating proactively to set up weekly, bi-weekly, tri-weekly rehearsals, should come prepared with ideas, and should be flexible in accommodating their colleagues' schedules.  Maintain a positive attitude, and inspire the other members through your own hard work.  Coaches are qualified but for some reason comments are not always insightful or inspiring or educational.  If this happens, discussion about phrasing, ensemble playing, etc. should be a priority in rehearsals.  Coachings could involve more detailed work and more individual attention.  Possibly the most important part is finding a good group and staying committed.
Great, stress-free way to play chamber music with your friends.
Fun way to play chamber music and get credit for it. Highly recommended, especially if you get Kris!
it's fun! do it!! you also meet really cool people.
It's a great way to get more playing in
definitely a great experience to work with other experienced musicians and get professional coaching
As long as you rehearse consistently and put in the required work, the class will be a blast. The coaches are fantastic and you will learn a lot from them.
Take it; it's one of the few performances classes for which you can get credit. Especially if you're in a group with your friends, it's so much fun. Though if you're a woodwind player, be warned that all the coaches are either string players or pianists.
It's a great class, brings fellow musicians together and become friends with them.  You'll learn a lot musically!
This is a great way to keep up your playing if you don't have all that much time to devote to practicing.
This course provides a great opportunity to explore chamber music repertoire of your choice. If you are passionate about chamber music or learning about classical music with talented peers, this is the course for you. That being said, like any other course you will only get out of this course what you put into it. If you practice regularly and set aside a couple of hours each week to rehearse, this course will be lots of fun.
Musicians at Harvad are great, and you have to perform entire chamber works, not just one movement. Like many others, I totally think that you get out what you put into 187. This is a great 4th credit if your other coursework is too heavy.
This class is awesome! If you are passionate about chamber music then this class will be a lot of fun. Hope for a good piece and a good group.
If you want to have 2-3 hours a week carved out just for playing music, take this class ! It's always great fun to make a group with friends and make music together, so do it ! You also get opportunities to have masterclasses with some amazing people such as Jeremy Denk, Yo-Yo Ma and Pamela Frank !
Either pick an easy piece or be prepared to rehearse with your group.
Great class! If you play an instrument, but don't have time for private lessons, this chamber music class is a great way to keep music a part of your life.
hooray playing
It's great.
Great fun and a break from the stress of exams and p-sets
Kristopher Tong and Heng-Jin Park are both wonderful coaches. Put together a group where everyone gets along and you're good to go!
awesome opportunity to play chamber music and get COACHED! one of the only opportunities to take a music performance course at harvard. do it!
Had a blast learning and playing great chamber music!
both heng-jin and kris are really great coaches. i really feel like i became a better chamber musician after this course. almost all students in this course prepared an entire substantial work of chamber music. my only qualm is that the final concert was not well-attended while there were so many fabulous groups who worked so hard and were not able to share their work with others.
This is a class like typical music school chamber music classes.  We rehearsed ~2 hours outside coaching and practiced on our own.  It is highly dependent on the group you are in, but I loved several members of my group, admired them as musicians, and was grateful of the time to be be close to them and to share a goal and process.
The class is a wonderful way to continue doing chamber music.  It is up to group members how seriously to take the need to practice, which sometimes is problematic.
You'll feel very attached to your piece and group members by the end. This is one of Harvard's great course offerings for musicians who want to make music in a personal setting with excellent feedback.
A wonderful class! A lot of fun, a lot of support, a lot of work, but an immense joy to be able to have such a class at Harvard! You have to practice, never forget! Your progress is necessary for the progress of the group!
Definitely recommend this course if you enjoy playing chamber music with friends and would like to have weekly coachings and opportunities to play in master classes with professional quartets!
This is a great opportunity to play some chamber music, taught by some great teachers.
Chamber music is a lot of fun, and I would definitely recommend this class. Be sure to practice at least a few hours each week outside of coachings!
It's always fun.  You can always see the clear results from your hard work.
It's a wonderful class. You won't regret taking it.
Take it. no reason not to. This is a great way to relax and keep up your chops when you don't have time to practice otherwise.
This is a great class to learn, understand, and play music and to meet other musicians. However, if one wants to get the most out of what this course has to offer, they must be personally motivated to achieve. It is easy to get by in this class without much effort, but with this mindset, you do not exercise your own potential and the potential of the class.
I never viewed this course as a class. It was more of a time for me to escape from academics and enjoy my favorite hobby, music. If you want this kind of an experience, take it!
Take it.
It's so nice to have this chamber music class to balance out whatever other science, math, humanities you may be taking. It's refreshing and exciting to collaborate with such talented musicians.
Music 187 is a fantastic way to engage deeply with serious repertoire for a full semester, and to be able to work with esteemed coaches who really care about the musical growth of the students.
This class is an amazing way to get involved in chamber music at Harvard. The work load really isn't much and the coaches are amazing. You definitely won't regret taking this class.
Music 187rg is a great opportunity to improve your chamber music playing.
Heng-Jin is the bomb. But also, take this class if you like chamber music--it's great! Forming a group beforehand is highly recommended.
