Maybe see if the aim of the class is different. When I took it, the premise was that it would be about analyzing dance music (particularly, harmony). This happened a lot in section. But the homework was very difficult for people who have never made dance music before. There are some people that know the programs already, and it was a breeze for them. For people like me, I struggled too much with learning Ableton to get the real meat of the course (besides section, which was engaging).
If you know musical production software well, take it. If you don't, prepare for a lot of hours learning what works (and what doesn't) in making your compositions.
Simply an amazing class- for the assignments, I did what I would have otherwise done had I free time- and even so, I became much better at music production! If you love making music, this class will be something you will look forward to each and every lecture/session/assignment.
Excellent class that fosters an environment in which students create and listen to electronic songs, fostering an appreciation for the form, rhythm, melody, and timbres of EDM and applying these concepts to composition.
If you are interested in writing, producing, or studying electronic music of a less concert music orientation (though not just electronic dance music), you should definitely, definitely take this class. It is not only a great chance to practice your craft and get some insight into techniques and tendencies of this kind of music, but also a chance to connect with wide body of people who are also interested in writing this music, which is an invaluable experience. Hopefully Harvard offers this course again, because it should be abundantly clear to them that this is one of the very most popular and successful classes the music department has had in at least the last five years, and one that provides instruction of a kind and in a field which no other class they have offered in that time has provided. It fills a hole that Harvard students clearly want to be filled, and the department should pay attention to that.
This class is structured to allow you to explore your interest in this field of music however you want. If you want to make quality songs, you will have to spend a lot of time in the studio, though.
This was the most enjoyable and most practical (yes, practical) class I've taken at Harvard. If you like EDM, definitely take the course. You learn how to make your own songs, from basic musical ideas to some production skills. It's a great way to expand your musical vision and look at EDM in a new, more appreciative way.
enjoy !
Fun class; it both fosters creativity and educates.  Great for learning more about EDM production and analyzing it from a music theoretical perspective.
This is a dangerous course in many regards (at least, such was my case)dangerous to your time spent working in other courses, to certain preconceptions of yourself as a musician you might've had, to that job you thought you were taking after graduation. In any case, I'm off to go make some electronic dance music now, as a means of making a living and a means of living.
Writing songs in Ableton is awesome, but be prepared to put in extra work if you have just taken Music 2 and do not have perfect/relative pitch - its a little harder to figure out what's going on and a lot of the learning happens at home or in one-on-one meetings with the TFs.
It's an awesome class! It's a project based class, and you'll get a lot out of it if you are willing to devote time to the compositions!
You need to know how to use Ableton or another DAW, or be willing to spend a lot of time on YouTube teaching yourself how to use it. If you were frustrated with how easy Music 51 was, this is not a class for you.
This class is phenomenal, because you get to engage rigorously with a topic that you presumably enjoy.  There is value in using compositions as assignments, and Post is a wonderful lecturer.
Lectures? Ridiculous. Sections? Laughable. You gain ABSOLUTELY ZERO practical knowledge about how to create a good EDM song. If you want to learn that (like I did), go elsewhere because Olaf is not at all knowledgeable about EDM. I recommend this class only to someone who either a) wants an easy class and can compose music (and doesn't mind learning Ableton on their own time) or b) knows Ableton and EDM and just wants to hang out and make EDM for credit.
If you have a strong background in electronic music production this class may be too rudimentary for you, but if you haven't or are just getting into the genre, this class will be a lot of fun. You'll be very proud of what you'll be able to produce by the time of the final project.
I think it was a fun course, and I'm happy I took it, but it really required a lot of work out of me. I also felt as though I did not get much guidance from the staff. Instead, I had to seek out help on my own time because the skills weren't being taught in class.
