Be ready for a lot of playing! Fun course if you're confident as a musician.
This class is a fun way to improve your jazz playing.
This is probably one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard so far. It's a performance based class in which you learn jazz improvisation by just doing it! The teaching staff is incredible and gives extensive feedback on your progress. The first half of the semester, you learn a set of jazz standards and perform them in a midterm concert, then in the second half of the semester you get to arrange or compose your own piece, to be performed in a final concert! If you have any interest in performing or playing jazz, you must take this class!
This was a great class. While it is still up to you to become a great improviser, they're available to help you with it if you choose to pursue it. The group portion was excellent as well; I feel like I learned a lot about group dynamics through it.
It is an amazing class. Thank God Harvard has a class like this! If you have interest in jazz it is a must.
Expect to practice a lot, and don't go into this expecting to be reinforced in your own playing. Approaching this class with for the goal of compliments is against what it is trying to achieve. humility in this class is how it allows you to grow and improve as a musician.
Be ready to go every week, dig the tunes, and enjoy the other players.
Definitely take it if you are interested in jazz improvisation.
If you want to take jazz improvisation, this is your only choice at Harvard.  Just hope that it is more organized this time.
It is a lot of work, but you are playing jazz so it does not seem like work. Teachers are great, and you learn and improve a TON.
If you are interested in acquiring the basic tools for building your improvisational voice, or in radically improving the skills you already have, this course is for you.
If you put in the effort and really work on the assignments you will see significant growth as a soloist and overall musician over the semester.
This is definitely a fun course, but not an easy course. Be prepared to do a lot of work, even if it is fun work, like spending at least a few solid hours each week practicing.
Music 186 is a fun, light-hearted course. If you're already a jazz player, you won't learn very much from it, but it's a great opportunity to jam with other players. The workload is always manageable, and lectures are usually very interesting, even if the musical concepts discussed are simple. The prerequisite of a semester of jazz harmony is merely a suggestion; if you know what the rhythm changes are or what a tritone sub is, you should be perfectly fine.
Only take this class if you can already do jazz improv. I couldn't, and struggled a lot. My classmates all had previous experience.
This is a very fun class! Dr. Henderson is enthusiastic and very knowledgeable.
It's a great class that is amenable to a pretty wide array of musical backgrounds. Check it out!
TAKE THIS COURSE. Don't think twice. If you like jazz, here's 3 hours a week of discussing, listening, and playing jazz with Professor Henderson (a great trumpeter!) and your talented classmates. The workload is definitely manageable. And the guests artists are insane. Even if you have never heard of the guest artist (for my year it was Joshua Redman or the Alex Brown Trio and I hadn't heard of them before they came to play with us), just know that whoever comes will blow your mind with their talent. In short, sign up now.
Dr. Henderson is awesome and so are the tf's. You will learn a lot about jazz, it's what you make of it
Take this class! After Jazz Harmony, I had a ton of fun continuing to learn about jazz in this class.
This class is a lot of fun and still very educational. I feel like I got less out of it than Jazz Harmony, so if you're only going to take one of the two I'd recommend that one. But taking both was a great way to spend the year - Prof. Henderson and the TFs are fantastic, and I think the skills I learned will stick with me as I continue to play long after graduation.
This class can be appreciated by those with all levels of jazz training.
Regardless of your current level, this class will radically improve your improvisations. Henderson has an excellent teacher's intuition: he understands the many pitfalls of jazz pedagogy and avoids them all. I would recommend it to anyone interested in playing jazz in the future in any capacity.
Practice
Please take this!  You won't be sorry!  One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard!
This course was a lot of fun for me, a non-jazz player. If you have jazz experience, you might get a little bored.
This is a great fun class. Dr. Hederson, Nick and Austin as some of the most positive people you will meet with infectious enthusiasm. You should probably have a relatively good playing ability and be able to read a chordsheet before this class
This is a great class and Dr. Henderson is an incredible teacher. If you want to learn how to improvise or improve you improvisation skills, this is the class for you. Even if you're already a great improviser, the topics and assignments in this class will get you to think about various aspects of improvising and work on improving them to the best of your ability. And don't pass up an opportunity to take a class with Dr. Henderson, who is very friendly, lots of fun, and really knows what he's talking about.
This was one of the very best courses I have taken at Harvard, as it has has given me musical tools that I will be able to use for a long time. It allowed students to grapple with the jazz vocabulary in a way that was highly personal and relevant to many other musical genres. The rhythmic tools we gained from studying jazz improvisatory techniques are highly applicable to everything from jazz to funk to hip hop. Meanwhile, uncovering the most interesting ways to solo over classic harmonic progressions provided insight not only into how improvisatory lines are constructed, but also lead melodies in general.Both Dr. Henderson and the course TFs were incredibly enthusiastic about the material. For example, Dr. Henderson put together a packet in which he had personally gone through hundreds of songs in the real books and fake books and identified where you could find various progressions, from ii V I's to more adventurous chromatic progressions. This kind of analysis of real songs made it fun and addictive to apply to our own improvisations. In the sections, Nick (my TF) always went the extra mile to help students of all levels and instruments engage with the material in a personal way. Even outside of class, he was always available to help me pursue the sounds and techniques I was excited about.
This is a great class for those wanting to learn the basics of improvisation. I have recommended it to some of my friends already, along with it's brother class, Jazz Harmony, which is also great.
If you want to improve your overall musicianship and ability to perform with a group, this is a fantastic class. You will learn transcription skills, performance skills (individual and group) and a lot about the interaction of parts in a band.
Great course, Dr. Henderson is an engaging lecturer, and the TFs are really active, both teaching and playing along with us students
This has been my favorite course in all my time at Harvard. The entire teaching staff was amazing, the material was well planned and interesting, it went at a challenging but doable pace, and I really felt like I was improving.
If you already play jazz, this course, as it was structured this year, will be of limited use to you. If you are completely new to jazz, it may be more for you.
This class is by far the one that generated the most enthusiasm in me. Every class was somewhat of a surprise, very involving and entertaining in new, creative ways. It is great experience as a musician to have so many opportunities to play with people, and the relations created through this class were also invaluable.
Now that Dr H is gone, I don't know what the class will be like, but if it is anything like it was when he was here, it'll be your most enjoyable class at Harvard
This is an incredible course!  However, please make sure you have some experience playing jazz before taking it.
This class is a fun way to tackle nervousness about playing improvised music. The course gives you tools to understand what soloists are thinking or doing when they are improvising, and allows you to apply those skills to your own playing. The music is what you make of it; volunteer to improvise in class and put in time practicing to make the best out of this class!
TAKE THIS COURSE! If Dr. Henderson is still teaching it, you are in for a treat--he is the sunniest and most wonderful character, and his infectious spirit will make you excited and engaged with every class. This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
You will never find a class as amazing as this one. Dr. Henderson and his teaching staff make this class a truly irreplaceable gem. There is a large component that involves listening and learning the language of jazz, then some techniques on how to practice improv, and also a chance to perform together in groups. You don't realize it at first but you actually do get a lot out of this class even if you come in with no improv experience.
This class was amazing. I learned a ton about playing jazz, got experience playing with other musicians, and learned about the history of this music. The teaching staff of Dr. Henderson, Evan, Nick, and Austin, was really great. I'm sad that Dr. H is leaving next year... it will be a different class without him, no doubt.
This class is amazing. Professor and teaching staff are phenomenal people and great to get to know as people and as mentors. They need TEACHERS like Dr. H people who care about what their students learn, get out of class. They teach how to take good risks with confidence....rare here at harvard.
its great, take it if you can play an instrument
Dr. Henderson and the TFs were incredible. You will learn about music in a different way than it is typically taught in the other Harvard music classes and come away with a love for jazz.
The faculty are gems that Harvard doesn't care about. They allowed us to take part in the world that is their passion and livelihood. I learned so much and got to witness true talent in a course with the faculty that I will not be able to recommend to others next year. I am heart broken that they are unable to return next year.
This class is great -- I think it's the kind of class where you get out of it the work you put in OUTSIDE of class, because really, there is no substitution for hard work and practice when it comes to improvisation. But there are so many resources that the teaching staff gives you, and they are all so dedicated to the class. It's really amazing -- Nick, Austin, and Dr. Henderson are all incredible musicians in their own right, and I am so glad I took this class. Ultimately, this class and its sister (Jazz Harmony) helped me to decide that I wanted to minor in Music. There aren't a whole lot of performance classes offered at Harvard, let alone jazz classes, and these two are incredibly important in one's understanding of music. So I would highly, highly recommend you take both.
Awesome class, take it!
Along with jazz harmony, one of the great class gems at Harvard. Not without its imperfections, but Jazz Improv was a really unique opportunity to study the styles of the jazz greats with brilliant teaching minds and fellow students who share a passion for jazz. You really can get a lot out of this class if you put the time and effort in, and it's worth it even if you don't have a necessarily rock-solid background in jazz.
Take this class, if you love jazz. Everyone in this class is an amazing performer, and Dr. Henderson and TFs are really cool. You'll gain a lot of great experiences as a musician.
The class is a great fun elective that will allow you to spend time practicing your instrument and learning to play it in new ways. Some of the things that make it cool also hinder it - having people of all instrumental backgrounds, for instance. But overall its a great course and you will enjoy it.
If you're at all interested in playing jazz, take this course! I came in with close to no experience playing jazz (though I did take Music 153: Jazz Harmony before this) and this class opened a whole new world of music for me.
The instructors of the Jazz Harmony/Jazz Improv series are seriously THE BEST teaching staff I have ever learned from. Although most of the students are not professional jazz musicians ( :D ), the faculty is SO encouraging and made the process ridiculously fun. I feel like I definitely improved over the time of the course, and going to class is like going to live jazz concerts. Seriously. Dr. Henderson, Nick, Austin--phenomenal, brilliant, encouraging, lovely. Take this class!
This class is fantastic. I highly recommend taking it. If you come from a classical background, where all you've done is read and practice notes, being able to creatively jam with friends with nothing more than a melody and chords on the page is immensely gratifying. I will, however, disclaim that some background is definitely necessary to maximize how much you get out of the material. If you are ready for the course, you will learn a ton! I had taken Jazz Harmony the semester before, and was very comfortable with the theory necessary for the course (chord structure, scale theory). However, I was quite rusty on my instrument, and so it was very hard to get into the swing of things (ha! pun not intended). For example, knowing what scale to play is definitely different from knowing the best way to contort your fingers so that playing that scale is easy. Such skills are much easier to pick up on some instruments over other instruments, and can be more difficult to pick up if you haven't played your instrument in several years!Henderson and the TAs (Nick and Austin, in our year) were fantastic. They're a constant source of really great information and advice, and are extremely friendly, nurturing, and always available if you have questions to ask.
What an incredible opportunity. Engaging and insightful lectures, interesting and challenging assignments, multiple up-and-coming guest artists, free tickets to local concerts, and a caring and capable teaching staff  this class has a lot going for it. Dr. Henderson is a gifted teacher whose enthusiasm for jazz is contagious, and I was pleasantly surprised by the musicianship of my peers and our common appreciation of jazz, which deepened through the course of the semester. The final three-hour recording session with the class was an awesome culminating and bonding experience not to soon be forgotten. I could honestly not ask for more out of a jazz course.
Great class and complement to Music 153: Jazz Harmony. I found the 153 material more interesting overall from a theory perspective but the opportunity to play in class made this class overall more fun. It's cool to be able to play every section too and record a few pieces at the end of the term in the studio. Also, compared to Music 153, this class has more work week to week but less at the crunch times for the midterm and final. Overall, this is a relaxed class that would be great to take as an elective.
one of the funnest classes you will ever take
It will be the most fun class you take, ever. Dr. Henderson is an absolute gem of a man and the TFs are fantastic as well. They all do a great job of meeting you where you are, so if you're relatively new to improvising or are a little rusty, have no fear. You will likely be challenged out of your comfort zone, but in a very supportive and enthusiastic environment. I absolutely loved this class and strongly recommend it.
It'll help you learn alot of about different improvisation methods, but you have to put work outside of class to be able to improvise well.
Take it!
