I got to meet Herbie Hancock and ask him questions, that was really cool! A really chill and laid back course where you still learn a lot. This is how all teaching should be.
This was such a special course because of the experience we shared with Herbie Hancock, but I highly recommend Harvard do this again with future visiting scholars in the Norton Lecture series.
This was a really fun course, though I imagine it changes a great deal from year to year. The workload was minimal and the environment was collaborative and supportive.
If you're a serious musician, take the course for the critical perspective. If you're an academic, take the course for the musical immersion and chance to creatively interact with music.
This course was fantastic!  Herbie Hancock was the Norton Lecturer at Harvard, so we were able to study his music and also learn directly from him in person.  The music was excellent, and there was lots of freedom in the later assignments.
This class was poorly organized, confusing, and irritating.  I only took it because I needed a theory elective for the music concentration and there were (seriously?!) no classical theory electives this semester.  Don't take this class.
if you've taken jazz harmony a lot of it will be review and will be too slow
This course provides some new ways of appreciating and understanding the work of these great jazz musicians. Be prepared to dig deep and have fun!
Prof. Monson is a nice woman though not the best at heading a discussion. There's a lot of listening homework and in class we talk about things we noticed or liked in the listening. She doesn't give a ton of background info and the class is geared towards students with a stronger background in jazz, though it seemed entirely possible to take the class with little background knowledge. It's not super fun but not difficult either. You get what you put into this class
This class is really what you make of it. You can easily spend 2 hours a week on this class and successfully complete the assignments. To get the most out of the class though, you'll really need to be self-motivated.
