Commit to steady attendance (including sectional) and it isn't more of a time commitment than 5 hours a week, except performance evals which only take about an hour a week twice a semester, and dress rehearsal / concert days which are about 5 hours.
HRO is definitely a top-quality orchestra and the players are strong and enthusiastic. Performance evaluations and rehearsals can be a drag at times, but concerts make it all worth it.
It's probably the best orchestra on campus, and the overall quality of musicians is pretty high. If you did HRO last semester, just keep on doing it (I think you also kind of have to keep doing it).
HRO has been a community for me at Harvard, and I'm always grateful to meet more people this way.
Must be committed. This is not an extra-curricular orchestra.
Make sure you can actually commit to rehearsals--its not fair to the rest of the orchestra if you can't make it to most of the rehearsals or you don't plan to take absences seriously.
it's the best orchestra at Harvard and probably the last time you'll get to play in one, so definitely take it!
HRO is very fun and but the student leadership can shape your experience.
It's nice to get credit for playing in orchestra. Fed has very high standards and it can get stressful at times but you make something great together at the end.
great class
Great if you like orchestra or if you played music at a high level in high school and wish to continue to do so.
This is a great class for those who are really passionate about music, but I definitely have reservations. Fed is overall a great conductor, but he seems to be a little out of touch with the orchestra in some ways. When he occasionally lost his temper, many of us were terrified and didn't play our best at rehearsal. Also, rehearsals start on the hour, so if you're taking a class that ends right on the hour, make sure you can always leave early.
This is a wonderful orchestra
If you want to be in an orchestra on campus, this is the one to join.
The only symphony orchestra you'll get on campus
You're unlikely to look forward to going to rehearsals, but if you really enjoy music making you will still enjoy it.
HRO is great.
It is a big time commitment, but I actually discovered during reading period that I kind of depended on the rhythm and structure that this provided for my week. You feel a good sense of accomplishment for learning a piece, and if you are at a high enough level on your instrument usually the rehearsals are enough for learning the pieces. Fed is also a very passionate and caring conductor, and even though he can be quite demanding at times I think it is much preferable to a conductor who doesn't care.
The level of musicianship in this orchestra is unmatched elsewhere in the college. It is truly inspiring to play among such great musicians.
The people that you get to interact with in the orchestra are amazing individuals, and making music with them is an experience of a lifetime.
It's the best orchestra at Harvard (not saying much).  Some people in the orchestra have massive egos that can be difficult to deal with sometimes.  The conductor honestly needs to go - he clearly does not like his job.
Yay HRO!
It was not the most enjoyable experience.
Great course
HRO is a lovely experience and definitely worthwhile.
HRO is a great way to play standard orchestral repertoire at Harvard. The community is great but is significantly drawn down by negativity from the top. Fed is a great thinker and a good musician, but lets his personal pride and angst cloud his performance, which both makes us play worse and drives people away from what should be miles away the best orchestra on campus
Come to HRO if you enjoy playing great orchestra repertoire, and if you're ready to commit 5 hours a week -- it's not an overwhelming amount, but you do have to plan your other classwork so you'll be able to go to rehearsal consistently and stay excited to be there.
Be sure you can devote time to coming to orchestra and practicing. The only reason that orchestra can be tense sometimes is because people have varying levels of commitment; it really relies on each member to be great. And so if you want to do orchestra, commit to it 100%. Also get to know Fed! He's great.
This is the best orchestra on campus. But you have to be willing to commit yourself to coming to rehearsals.
I LOVE HRO. The people are incredible. The music is amazing.
Fed is a great conductor, and the level of the average player in the orchestra is extremely high. Don't join if you don't plan on attending, though, and try to practice. It's a lot more fun if you come prepared.
Attendance is spotty, conductor is less explosive than in the past, but can still put on a scene, so be forewarned.
If you love orchestra, this course is a must-take
Awesome time to spend 5 hours of your time per week!
This is the best option for passionate and dedicated musicians to come together in a large orchestra and play excellent orchestral repertoire.
