It's The Best!
This is a great way not only to get to know the field of historical musicology, but also to explore its intersections with other disciplines.
You will have the most interesting conversations of your life in this class.
It is one of the best classes that I have ever taken.
Professor Revuluri is a great teacher with a fresh perspective on the field of musicology.  I took a version of this course for my master's degree, but I am so glad I had to taken another introductory course.  I saw a completely different side of musicology, and I am so excited to continue my research in this field!
A great entry to Historical Musicology!
you will be challenged to think, write, and speak in ways you probably haven't before, and that you might not be good at or comfortable with. by the end, you'll be much better at them, more comfortable with them, and tremendously excited about what you can do with musical scholarship.
It was very rigorous, but I got so much out of it!
Professor van Orden brought a tremendous amount of energy, enthusiasm, insight, and style to a "standard" graduate seminar in historical musicology.   I'd take the course again with her if I had the chance.
It's a lot of work, but most weeks you will learn a lot, and all things considered it will be worth it.
Prof. Revuluri is an outstanding teacher and mentor.  Her enthusiasm does not stop at the course materials, but extends also into the research interests of students that may not be covered directly in class.  The readings are an important and even-handed treatment of the field of musicology.
This is probably the most useful class they will ever take as a doctoral student. They will learn so much about the field and will read the most important parts of the most influential scholarly work in musicology.
An excellent introduction to the field with an inspiring professor
Professor Revuluri is brilliant and you will learn a lot just by being in the same room with her. Her criticism can be blunt, but it will help you grow as a scholar.
It's a required class, and so the content and organization of it won't change much over the years. That being said, I think that what everyone individually brings to the table can greatly shape the course of discussion and change the whole arch of the class, if you find it valid and worthy to steer things in a direction that the field demands or that you and your colleagues feel is worthy of attention. The openness of the format leaves a lot of room to navigate larger questions and veer towards more specific angles of disciplinary or theoretical consideration if you are willing to put in the effort to make it happen.
Prof. Shrefflers version of 201 is easy and engaging. The assignments are fun and useful, and the readings are diverse and interesting. Recommended!
It's a stellar introduction to a fascinating and dynamic field!
