This course offers amazing opportunities to hone close and contextual listening skills. This is music history with sound at the center.
If you're interested in the history and continuation of concert music after 1945, this class is definitely a useful way to approach the material and try to get a sense for some of the trends that have dominated the concert music scene from about 1945 to 1985 (at least in our iteration). Don't expect it to cover everything, but in our class there were some really interesting and sometimes pretty general discussions that came out of the material, so it's really a great way to engage with and get a sense for the main trends of musical thought and creation over the past half-century.
Prof. Shreffler does an excellent job in selecting and organizing the material, in leading the class, and in engaging students in fruitful discussion.
A great class. The syllabus itself is the strongest thing in this class. It's a great overview of what happened in concert music after WWII, yet we also get quite deep into certain things. The class really is not that hard, just weekly listening/reading responses and a final paper at the end. In general, I'd say my mind was opened by the course, even though I was already enthusiastic about 20th century music, and a composerdefinitely a good class for you if you're a composer!
It was an intellectually challenging and enlightening class for me, and I highly recommend it.
The subject matter is thoroughly repulsive, but studying it is ultimately rewarding. We have an ethical obligation to recognize this aspect of our culture.
Emotionally/psychologically loaded, but makes you see U.S. race relations in a new light.
A great opportunity to learn repertoire from the last part of the 20th century.
I highly recommend this class, as the music studied is important to know, even if you don't enjoy 20th century music.
Dr. Shreffler is an amazing discussion leader, and the material was diverse and great.
As long as you aren't afraid of grad students and enjoy being placed out of your listening comfot zone, you will LOVE this class.
It's a great way to gain solid general knowledge about twentieth-century music and musical trends
Professor Shreffler is great! She is nice in class and on assignments, and she loves all types of music.  The music is a little strange and sometimes disturbing.  There is a fair amount of work each week (especially with a weekly response paper), but it is fairly consistent.
