Fantastic group of friends, performing opportunities and musical growth.
Harvard Glee club is awesome! This is definitely one of my favorite extracurricular activities, and it's awesome to get course credit for it as well. I would wholeheartedly recommend joining the Glee club to any incoming freshman, or even upperclassmen who have an interest in men's choral music.
Take the class for credit. It's an easy way to earn extra credits and make friends.
It's an amazing group. Join if you have any interest in men's choral music.
The Harvard Glee Club has been one of the greatest highlights of my time at Harvard. The music and company are always a pleasure.
The Glee Club is a fantastic musical and social experience; you will grow as a singer and get lots of fun memoirs.
Harvard Glee Club is a great growing experience, both personally and musically. If you're at all considering auditioning, definitely definitely definitely do! I can't imagine a single week of my college experience without singing in HGC. Through tour and rehearsal, we work really hard to improve as individuals and musicians. And of course, it's an incredible family on what can be an unwelcoming campus. There's nothing at Harvard that has been nearly as transformative as being a member of HGC.
The rehearsals are kind of long and sometimes tedious, but the events (concerts, trips, etc) and the brotherhood make it all worthwhile.
If you like singing and meeting people who will genuinely become some of your best friends, do it.
Glee club is awesome duh
Join Glee Club! Best decision ever!
Glee Club is awesome! We sing great music.
The Glee Club is an amazing family.
Glee Club is a lot of fun!  Even if you do not have the most singing/musical experience in the world, I recommend you audition.  I have improved so much as a singer and musician, and it was one of the best decisions I made as a freshman this year.
Do HGC!
Being enrolled in the course hasn't changed my HGC experience at all, except that it will almost undoubtedly open up room for me to take a three-course semester sometime later, which will be very helpful if I write a thesis.  Joining the Glee Club last year is the best extracurricular decision I've made so far in college.
Put in practice time outside of class. It really does benefit the entire Glee Club.
I highly recommend joining Glee Club. We welcome singers of all backgrounds, we have a great sense of community, and we produce beautiful music. You'll make lots of friends and learn music for free. All you need to join Glee Club is the courage to audition and the ability to sing in tune -- Glee Club will take care of the rest. If you're a weak sight-singer/music-reader, Glee Club will pair you with someone more experienced on the seating chart, which allows you to follow along with your part. Warnings: it's a significant commitment of 4 hours (for Glee Club itself) and 8 hours (including Glee Club Lite, the a cappella subset of Glee Club).
The Harvard Glee Club is a wonderful opportunity; it is the club I am the most happy about joining since freshman fall. It is a great social group, but with the purpose of making music. The abundance of wonderful performances makes the work in rehearsals all worth it. If you want to make music with others, it's a golden opportunity.
Glee club is awesome!
