Practice piano before the test.
If you like to geek out about music theory, you'll enjoy it. But if you treat it as just something to suffer through, it will be interminable.
It is well worth the time required for this course.  You will gain a much greater appreciation for how music works and be a better musician (even as a singer) as a result.
Practice reading music alot, if your reading skills are shaky. The class was great and I learned alot about the foundations of music theory.
If you like listening to, performing, and, composing, music, and if you like looking at the details of musical pieces and how they are put together, and rules for composition that the great composers studied and often followed, this is a great course with wonderful teaching staff and fun assignments. Some people got frustrated with analyzing music and following composition rules, but I had a really great time in this class.
Music 51 is a challenging but very rewarding course.
This is a very practical course; contrary to the impression that Harvard's music department avoids performance, many of the skills taught in this course (such as ear-training) are clearly applicable to performance.
Music 51b features a wider range of material than 51a, but it ties together at the end of the course in practical composition.
It approaches music very analytically.
Make sure you know significant music theory before jumping into 51b.  You don't really need to worry because the professor will test you before you get in.  It's a tough class.  There is a significant work load as it IS a concentrations class, and I wouldn't recommend it as an elective course.
Don't take this course unless it is completely overhauled
Take it, but not if you know too much about music already.
Definitely take 51a. 51b should be taken, but with caution. I found it much harder than 51a.
Don't take it unless you are serious about music.  It isn't fun and games at all it is fundamental music theory.
Do not take this course unless you have significant time to dedicate to it. You must be thoroughly committed to learning the material and placing it as a high academic priority.
Very great advanced intro course.
It's a pretty relaxed class. You learn a lot, and it's a lot of fun, but it's definitely not stressful.
This class is a lot of work.  They essentially cram what would be three or four courses at a conservatory (theory, musicianship, keyboard, ear training) into one pretty dense curriculum.
This course is not for the slacker musician
Take this class if you are really serious about music and prepared to work intensely to develop your theory skills and knowledge.  If you are, the payoff is quite satisfying.
The new version of the course is great. It really allows students of different levels to all learn and grow.
Unless you love music theory, you might find this class boring
This is a good course....   If you are going to be a music major.  But for the casual musician, this probably isn't the course in the music department for you.
take advantage of meeting with your tf outside of class, i learned so much from meetings with my tf on my own time
It is difficult to predict what this course will be like because everyone seems to be on a different page with regard to their level of theoretical knowledge, so definitely speak to people who have taken the class about the material covered and the rigor of the course.
Professor Beaudoin is a fantastic lecturer, though this largely disappears when he's trying to teach instead of inspire. Sections are extremely small, and the TFs provide detailed feedback on student work. This class is an enjoyable and painless way for musicians with a decent understanding of music theory to satisfy the AIU gen-ed requirement.
I love Professor Beaudoin and I love (as he puts it) "loving music slowly" (that's his definition of Music Theory). I found myself growing weary of Music Theory in this course and desiring more music. But I think that's just Music Theory's fault - not the fault of the staff who design and teach this course.Beaudoin is a wonderful lecturer. He has a great passion for music, wonderful sense of humor, incredible undertanding of the material, and great care for his students. He always makees himself available outside of class and is great fun to meet with for a chat. I appreciate his willingness to talk about anything and his personal interest in all his students.
I had a great time in 51b. Music theory is a subject that has the potential to become dry and bland, but Professor Beaudoin's instruction in theory was completely the opposite; it was actually very engaging! I really liked how he connected theory to composition, explaining how choices in harmony, etc. are tools that a composer can use to create a powerful piece of music. I also liked that Professor Beaudoin addressed color in music as a topic; this isn't a very common theory topic, but it is certainly part of music, and a very interesting part as well. The workload was relatively easy, and there wasn't much homework (if you save your projects for the night before, you won't be happy, but if you distribute the work evenly, it will never be too much). However, I should point out that this course is a pretty big time commitment in class. Every week, there is a two hour lecture, one or two hour long sections, and a thirty minute keyboard session (which I didn't think was too useful). But overall, I strongly recommend this class to any musician at Harvard; theory is one of the things Harvard's music department really does well, and I can say that theory doesn't get much better than as it is taught by Professor Beaudoin.
It is a challenging and advanced theory class but Prof. Beaudoin and the way he teaches this course will show you a brand new understanding of theory.
This class is honestly the best! I have had so much fun with the assignments, and I always look forward to the weekly lectures. If you even remotely like music, you should take this class!!!!
Beaudoin is an excellent guy. No musical experience (beyond reading music) necessary, which meant that class was very dull for those with a significant musical background.
If you're not thinking of concentrating or pursuing a secondary in music, it might not be worthwhile
Take this course, especially if Professor Beaudoin is teaching it. I'm not a music concentrator, but I gained a lot from this course that will help me understand music for the purposes of performance.
This course is fantastic. Professor Beaudoin is an engaging lecturer, and his approach makes music theory - which is often considered dry - seem relevant and applicable. If you are interested in music and the organization behind it, this is a course worth taking.
Really hard but a great class.  Beaudoin is an amazing professor
Professor Beaudoin is really great! This class is not to hard, but you can also really learn a lot depending on how much you want to engage with the material outside of class. I thoroughly enjoyed it and lectures were great - I don't think there was a single lecture where I didn't laugh at least once.
The teaching staff for this course is really great. They are all so incredibly enthusiastic and knowledgable, and it is very rare for a Harvard course to have great TFs across the board (there are typically a few good ones and a lot of really terrible ones). Prof. Beaudoin is a gem, of course. Even though I had taken music 51a, I felt that this course was far too difficult for me, though I'm not really sure why. I was less familiar with this subject material, and I felt that we moved through it more quickly. I really disliked the musicianship portion of the class. It was hard because it seemed like they were really just trying to figure it out as we went along, but I feel that it would have been much more helpful to have concrete assignments and methods of "practicing" for the next musicianship meeting. 8 minutes every 2 weeks just made it seem so arbitrary and pointless. I did enjoy my time in this class, though it had me pulling my hair out at times...
Music 51, as taught by Prof Beaudoin, is an amazing class that can be difficult and challenging but ultimately a wonderful and thorough introduction to the most fundamental concepts of music. He is the best teacher I have had at Harvard.
This class is great! Beaudoin is a fantastic professor and it's always exciting to go to lecture.
This course is for anyone seeking a cohesive second step in music theory. However, be prepared for seemingly arbitrary grading and somewhat uninspired sections.
Very disappointing. I liked Music 51a and felt genuinely like I learned a lot about music theory in that class, but this second semester, 51b, was a true mess. The three purported "arcs" of the course were, reading directly from the syllabus: (1) chromatic harmony, (2) imitative counterpoint, and (3) musical color. We gave a moderate but insufficient amount of time to harmony, almost no time at all to counterpoint (and there were no assignments related to this), and WAY TOO MUCH time to color, for which the assignments were tedious and unfulfilling (plus, realistically, this is a topic for a matter of days, at least for the purposes of an intro course). I felt as if my section leader, also, didn't have very much to teach (partly his fault, partly the course structure's fault), so it ended up being a tremendously boring waste of time (but unfortunately mandatory since section participation is a significant chunk of your grade). Assignments as well as feedback on those assignments were silly and arbitrary. Creative ideas were stifled by the number of requirements in the assignments - essays and compositions alike, and the corresponding feedback only served to check if you met those requirements (e.g., use this progression, use that chord, write with this thesis [essentially], etc.). Grading in 51b, for this reason, was completely illegitimate and reflective neither of the amount of work you put in nor the intelligence or ingenuity of your work.
Professor Beaudoin is amazing! You should check out the classes he is teaching - I would imagine that music 51 would not be the same if he is not teaching it. The assignments are creative and fun to work on, and my preception of music has grown so much over the semester. The class is well-organized and I looked forward to his lectures every week!
Take this class! Especially if you took 51a, do finish the series! The content of this course is really interesting. We had the chance to analyse and listen to some really beautiful music.
Definitely take this class if you like music theory, since Professor Beaudoin is amazing.
This class is awesome - even if you've learned music theory before, this course will open another world of music. Professor Beaudoin is the best professor I've met at Harvard so far.
Take this class, especially if Professor Beaudoin is teaching it.  There wasn't any annoying busywork (like in 51a); on the contrary, the assignments were actually quite enjoyable.
This class is wonderful when Professor Beaudoin is teaching it. Every week we learn something new about music. The assignments are very balanced in terms of time commitment and the infusion of creativity and knowledge they require. Everything was great.
If you've taken 51a and are on the fence about 51b, the fun has only just begun!  In the second semester, you get to apply what you've learned in more creative projects and assignments and explore entirely new branches of theory.
Take it! If Beaudoin is teaching, you are in for a real treat. Not only do you get to explore great Romantic music, but you'll learn about your own musical abilities and sensibilities, and compose knowing them!
This class was amazing.  Dr. Beaudoin is so enthusiastic and meticulous about planning out this course down to the last detail.  Lectures were great and enjoyable to sit through for two hours, assignments were diverse and offered a great way to apply the information learned in the course to real pieces.  The works Dr. Beaudoin uses come from all time periods and genres, which really adds something to the course.  Sections were run smoothly and were helpful in absorbing some of the more complex information and for working on larger assignments.  Overall great class - I'd recommend it to anyone thinking about going into music as a concentrator or for a secondary field, or if you're interested in learning about some of the more complex elements of music theory.
Absolutely take this course if you can.  Dr. Beaudoin's approach is far less dry than you might be used to in AP Music Theory, and the workload is far from onerous (though don't leave the assignments to the last minute, as you'll want time to think about them).
If you back a decent background in music theory, and want to further it, then look no further! Professor Beaudoin is a phenomenal lecturer because he constantly engaging, witty, and draws the class simultaneously to all these amazing discoveries about the material at hand. There is always a big "ahhhh" in every lecture when he provides musical examples. Sometimes lecture can be a little long, and section is iffy (if you're a pianist, don't expect to be challenged by the keyboard section), but Professor Beaudoin makes it worth it, and you will learn a LOT.
If you want to further your understanding of musical theory, develop compositional skills, and to widen your repertoire of musical knowledge, this is the class for you.
Overall, this is a fantastic course that I thoroughly enjoyed. Beaudoin is an incredible professor, and the teaching staff is phenomenal. The grading scheme somewhat adds an element of stress to the class, as every deduction you get on an assignment is an equal deduction off your average, but it is still so worth it. Definitely spend time reviewing material throughout the semester for personal benefit, as once something is taught, it is assumed you will remember it.
This course is a lot of fun, and provides you with opportunities to arrange and compose as well, integrating concept taught in lecture with creative projects.  However, I will say that this class probably will not fundamentally change your perception of music or understanding of theory.  Topics in chromatic harmony and new pre-dominants are addressed, but nothing completely ground-breaking.
Dear Harvard, rumor has that you're thinking of letting Beaudoin go in the near future. This would be a BIG mistake. Let me tell you why you should keep Beaudoin on board (...and give him tenure asap). First, he's brilliant. But so are many people, right? Yes, but not in the same way. Beaudoin's genius is in how he communicates the material. This man is an EDUCATOR of the highest order. You can tell that he has so much to teach in every lecture and packs it all in in the most elegant, enjoyable way. The result was the most enlightening two hours of my week - every week. I've rarely seen a teacher with such enthusiasm for the material. It's contagious. Also, he has no air about him (as too many academics do), and so his lectures pulsate with this spontaneous energy. Please, please, please, do the hundreds of students to come after me a favor: keep Beaudoin for as long as you can. As the saying goes, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. Sometimes, keeping things the same for a while is the best change you can make.
Professor Beaudoin makes you feel like there might actually be a point to it all
Get a electronic keyboard for your room and use it to sound out chords as you do the textbook readings
ITS SO WORTH TAKING, even if you aren't concentrating in music, and especially if you have any interest in music
This course introduces you to new theory elements and expands on your prior knowledge to the subject. If you are interested in learning about harmony especially, this course is a great place to start.
It's a lot of work but rewarding to those who care about music and want to become better musicians.
You will gain a deeper appreciation for music. Professor Beaudoin's lectures are a joy to listen to. A quintessential Harvard experience
Beaudoing is phenomenal. This is the best theory class you will ever take.
Fun class that will improve your composition skills and teach you a lot about how various kinds of music work.
The class is great and it's a great start to thinking about music in a different way.
This class continues to give me multiple perspectives on music and I appreciate music so much more after having taken this class!
Professor Beaudoin is excellent and exciting. You will probably never meet anyone else who is as excited about music theory. That said, it can feel like you're studying minutia at first.
This course will give you a solid foundation in tonal theory. I would highly recommend it, especially if professor Beaudoin is teaching it. His lectures are engaging and he does a good job of relating even the duller points of classical music to the music of today.
Beaudoin is a wonderful lecturer, and this class is worth taking for that reason alone.  There were some great assignments, and I was exposed to a great deal of repertoire that I fell in love with.  The pace may be a little slow if you're really well-trained in music and quick to understand musical concepts, but still absolutely worth taking.
have fun
This course is absolutely amazing. Professor Beaudoin is an incredibly engaging person who really cares about both the material and his students. The assignments are unique and emphasize different parts of studying music, the musicianship and keyboard sections are great for improving your music skills, and the material covers a wide range of interesting topics. You do need a significant background in music/theory, but if you have it I'd recommend this course in a heartbeat. By far the best two courses (51a and 51b) of my freshman year.
This class will be the one that you don't want to end, where the last lecture will fill you with a sense of longing for more.
A great course. Don't miss it! Beaudoin gives great lectures, and the staff really cares about you. A lot of cool material and even cooler homework. ou get to harmonize, compose your own song among others. Is it better than 51a? Hard to compare, but I'm tempted to say yes. So if you took 51a and loved it, no excuse for missing this.
for a music concetrator, this class may be slow
This class is fantastic. If you liked 51a, you will love 51b. Prof. Beaudoin is one of my absolute favorite professors ever--he is so enthusiastic about music and he really cares about his students. I cannot say enough good things about him!  All of the assignments were interesting and fun, and the quizzes (musicianship, keyboard, and theory) were all fair. I think anyone with any interest in music/music theory/composition would love the 51a-51b series!
This class is a lot of fun. Many people said they enjoyed it a lot more than 51a, but I would say they are about equal. 51b definitely had its strengths-- the musical examples we looked at were a lot more fun, in my opinion. There were fewer rigid assignments and more room for artistic expression. The final songwriting project and presentations were a lot of fun.
This was by far my absolute favorite class this semester.  Professor Beaudoin is such an enthusiastic dynamic lecturer that someone who has absolutely no understanding of the music theory fundamentals would be able to recognize the superiority of his lecturing techniques. I looked forward to lecture every week because there was always the possibility of experiencing a guest performer's showcase of his/her life's work. I wish I could take this class again, or that every class at Harvard was this enjoyable and educational.
For anyone with an interest in music, whether as a concentration or in general, you should take this course. If you've taken Music 51a, don't stop there! The course material gets even more interesting as we delve into chromatic harmony and more modern music. You will gain a new appreciation for music. Beaudoin is a fantastic lecturer, presenting the material in an fun and engaging way. The assignments are generally fun and not too time-consuming if you start them early.
Be prepared for a lot of work, but it's wonderful work!
I felt like it was very similar to 51a (which was great), but the materials were completely new for me. I only had AP music theory as my theory background and 51a was largely just a review of AP theory, but this semester in 51b, almost everything was new and I really liked it.
This course is significantly more enjoyable and interesting than 51a, as it moves beyond the basics of theory and into some more widely-applicable harmonic, contrapuntal, and timbral topics.
Lectures can get really abstract and interesting, especially in the latter half of the semester. If you're okay with the subject matter from week to week being very loosely tied together (if at all), you'll enjoy this class. Also, the assignments are fine as long as you do not start them an hour before they are due, as many people tend to do in this class.
This is a great way to round out tonal theory. I enjoyed most of the course, but the last few weeks were a bit slow. I think he just exhausts all things one can do tonally, and so I lost interest. Definitely recommend though.
This class is full of unique opportunities - writing and performing compositions, hearing wonderful music live, to name a couple. This class mostly covers early Romantic music, especially the lieder of Schumann and Schubert. Beaudoin is hilarious and very passionate, and the workload is quite manageable. If you are looking to stretch your theory knowledge while challenging your creativity, this course is for you.
You can't not like Beaudoin. You will get out of this course more than you put into it, in my opinion - that said, I say put some extra time into it. It's not a huge time commitment as classes go, but the stuff you learn in this class is really exciting.
Richard Beaudoin is a fantastic teacher and infectiously enthusiastic about the material.
its not a class that you can breeze through, but it moves at a manageable pace and is very fun!
It is an amazing course with an amazing professor.
The subject material is dry, but Beaudoin is good
Even if you have a strong music background in some musical discipline OTHER than classical music, this class is worth taking, even just to contextualize things that you already know. Professor Beaudoin is a great teacher.
I think that this is definitely a course worth taking if you are interested in how music and harmony works
I was not a huge fan of Music 51a, as it was significantly less-creative than I'd hoped. This semester, however, we have all of the tools we learned to use in 51a and are given the freedom to use them in much more creative ways. The class is wonderful. We study many more songs, cover crazy techniques like the hexatonic cycle, and get to write an entire composition from scratch as our final project. The course is really interactive and you're constantly evaluated, which means you must learn quickly and well in order to keep up. It's not easy, obviously, but you learn a great deal, which makes up for it.
It's a great course. All the tfs seem super helpful and super ready to be there for you. Victoria is a gem. Beaudoin's lectures are some of the best around. Just be ready to compose some things and to do some projects that may not always make sense at first. But the teaching staff is there for you. And to sing/play for musicianship.
Professor Beaudoin is an incredible person and his lectures and engaging. I loved this class!
This is an amazing class! The teaching staff, especially Professor Beaudoin, makes music theory exciting and relevant. Plus, you have really interesting assignments and listen to lots of great music.
It is a lot harder than music 51b but nevertheless an enjoyable class.  Still concentrate in music!
Take it if you want to become a better musician. It doesn't matter if you're into techno, singing, jazz, music 51 will be very useful for you. It's also very varied so you won't feel like you're getting bored. Topics change almost weekly so you really explore a lot of things throughout the year.
If you took 51a, you should definitely continue with 51b. There's some cool stuff with color that you look at in this part of the course. Section was also awesome. Olivia is a really great TF--we got to work on heavy metal vocal techniques one section as a digression from the normal class materials because.
Music 51b was a great course to take because of the curriculum, the assignments, and, most of all, the TFs.  We learned a lot of cool topics in music theory, but it was much more exciting to arrange a piece of Schumann and compose an art song.  Section was awesome and allowed us to really delve into the topics in small groups; the lectures, although well-taught by Beaudoin, were much too long. If you want to learn more music theory, I definitely recommend 51b.
Coverage of modulation and chromaticism was excellent. However, at the end the class covered atonal music in an vague way that didn't help me understand it and felt like a waste of time. I would recommend the class because of the good first 9 weeks.
A very interesting and greatly enjoyable class.
I enjoyed this course a lot. The material is a lot more interesting than that of Music 51a.
Chelsea was a great teacher and her enthusiasm for the class and course material was infectious (That's probably not too helpful since she is leaving after this year.). Take this class to get a feel for what real music theory and analysis is like and to survey some of the many interesting topics covered in higher-level music classes.
I really enjoyed this class. Dr. Burns is leaving so it's hard to tell what next year's class will be like but if you're interested in learning about theory and the underlying themes and elements behind music, then take it. But if you don't care about the gritty details, forget it. Dr. Burns and my TF, Andy were fantastic. They really knew their stuff.
The course focuses exclusively on the theory behind western classical music, do not expect to think creatively about the music you listen to in class or write in assignments.
This course is an effective step in one's learning of music theory, and is quite manageable.
I really enjoyed this class. The material and examples were interesting, and I appreciated the enthusiasm of the teaching staff.
While the second semester is a bit less structured than the first, this is a fantastic and fun class with Chelsea Burns (I hear there will be a new professor next year though). Interesting music to study and extremely competent instructor and TFs who are always available to help and teach.
Chelsea is a wonderful professor, very approachable and funny and explains concepts clearly. Some parts of music theory are rather arduous and there's no way getting around that. But I felt that the format of this class and the assignments we did were mostly interesting and useful, and I have learned a lot that has helped me as both a creator and consumer of music.
Hopefully professor Beaudoin's legacy will live on in this course. It is very much like 51a but with more difficult concepts and assignments. Expect to work quite a bit harder in this course than in 51a.
This class was enriching and, I think, made me a better musician and musical thinker. It is a steady, substantial amount of work, but it never felt too overwhelming. The main reason the class was good was Professor Beaudoin's assignments and lectures. With him gone, and the class perhaps being restructured, I don't feel comfortable making a recommendation. But it might be great again.
This course is amazing. I learned so much from Professor Beaudoin and the course overall. You will never think about music the same way again.
Wonderful, wonderful class. The 51 series reinvigorated my interest in studying music at college. It's a shame future years will not benefit from the incredible Dr. Beaudoin, but hopefully the instructor will remain similarly talented.
This course is so good it's almost unbelievable.  Its assignments and lectures have been refined to perfection, and Dr. Beaudoin is absolutely astounding in his intelligence, humor, and compassion.  You will be asked to think critically and to be creative.  You learn volumes about how music works--from theory to acoustics to emotion--and then you have the fortuitous chance to apply your knowledge creatively in a Schumannian composition.  What more could you ask for?  Not much.
This is an incredibly fun course which gives a solid basis in classical music theory.
This was a fantastic class. Prof. Beaudoin was one of the most enthusiastic lecturers I have taken a class from. Sadly, he is leaving and will no longer teach this course. I hope that whoever replaces him in teaching this course is as enthusiastic.
Music 51b is a course I will always fondly remember. It changed my perspective on the music I hear in orchestra and day-to-day equally.
An absolutely phenomenal course.  But I think this was Prof. Beaudoin's last time teaching it, and he was a huge component of my enjoyment of the course.  I wish that I had started assignments earlier and spent more time on them- I would have gotten more out of the course. This course has tremendous potential, but you need to really engage with the material to reach it.  Beaudoin's lectures, and those of visiting speakers, truly transformed the way I think about music.
This is THE BEST CLASS I have taken at Harvard. It's honestly a shame that Professor Beaudoin is leaving because he is a legend. He made me fall in love with music all over again, and I can't say enough how amazing both this class and music theory are. I think 51b is much more interesting than 51a because chromatic harmonies are just inherently much more interesting than the basic, foundational theory we learn first semester. I have no idea how the course will be in the future, but I would still recommend it completely because I think the material is super interesting and have a much deeper appreciation of music and the theory underlying it after taking this class.
The course is great!
It is hard to predict what this class will be like in the future, as this next year is a transitional period, but if it is taught by anyone with even half the lecturing talent of Dr. Beaudoin and you think you might be interested in how music works you absolutely need to take it. Period. You will not regret your choice.
I don't know what the course will be like after Professor Beaudoin leaves, but I loved this course with all my heart. It's easy to be intimidated by other students, but the course is designed for students to focus on themselves and improve their personal music skills.
This was one of my favorite classes, because of Professor Beaudoin. Unfortunately he won't be teaching at Harvard anymore. If the class is half as good as it was under his teaching, you'll be lucky!
**The Legend of Beaudoin -- Ocarina of Time.** But seriously, after several years of charming the undergraduates with his delightful personality and illuminating lectures, Professor Beaudoin will surely go down into history books as one of the best professors to ever walk the campus. Next year's instructor certainly has big shoes to fill.
It seems impossible to separate Beaudoin from 51b, so it is hard to tell any useful information for future semesters. 51b as it is, however, is really a wonderful course that attempts to develop you musically on a broad range of topics. Beaudoin and his enthusiastic lectures were undoubtedly a cornerstone of the 51 sequence, so hopefully an equally adept professor will take over.
This was Beaudoin's final year at Harvard, so the course may change dramatically starting in Spring 2017. But Beaudoin was one of the best teachers I have ever had. Beaudoin's lectures were always captivating, and the musical examples we discuss simply and clearly illustrate the main concepts of the lecture. However, section were of uneven quality and were moderately helpful, while keyboard was not very useful at all.
Music 51b is an incredible course, one of my favorite at Harvard, but unfortunately a huge part of what made it so incredible was Professor Beaudoin. That's not to say that the course won't be wonderful under the direction of another professor, but he just lit up the class and it'll be hard to imagine it without him.
This course is the best course I have taken at Harvard thus far. My conception of and appreciation for music transformed significantly as a result of this class and, more importantly, the professor. I'm a serious pianist and this class helped me find a deeper purpose to music making and develop a stronger understanding of both the specifics and the scope of music. Furthermore, because of the diverse backgrounds of the students that take the course, I was constantly blown away by my peers and the perspectives and insights they had to offer.
It doesn't matter what you want to go into.  If you are looking for an enjoyable class to take and are moderately interested in music and know how to read sheet music, you should take this class.  It is really an amazing experience.
If you want an all-encompassing approach to music theory, this is your course.
