Can be boring, but you get to perform a full piece at a high level with excellent instruction.
the more you participate, the more you get out of it.
It's really worth taking.. lots of fun and you learn a ton.
Although the three-hour classes can be tough to get through, the music is amazing. The professors are brilliant. It's a great class.
Professor Levin alone makes the class worth taking. The opportunity to work with two masters of music is one that should not be passed up.
Not because of the quality, which is superb. But if you don't have enough passion to sacrifice the appropriate effort and time, it would not be really appropriate.
The best musical experience I've had at Harvard
Professor Levin alone makes it worth taking the class.
The weekly class meetings are tremendously fruitful in the discussion they generate.  They often involve theory, but it's not that advanced -- lots of experience listening critically to music can make up for training in theory (I've taken it both before and after Music 51).  Everyone is good-natured and encouraging.
Very exciting and inspiring class; the opportunity to work with fellow musicians and fantastic coaches who are also professional musicians is a privilege
Any musician who wants a fulfilling experience where you will get coaching from two top level performers should take this class.  Listening to your peers play and learning about their music is part of the fun.
Make sure your group is all on the same playing level and that you decide on a time commitment before even auditioning for the course.  If you can't agree on capping the amount of time spent on the piece per week, there could be rehearsal and scheduling issues.
It opens your mind to different kinds of classical music.
great course
I do believe this class isn't for everybody: those who are looking for a laid-back encounter with a piece should not take this course.
It's the only way at Harvard to really study in depth a difficult piece and perform at a high level, which is of course an amazing opportunity.
A great course to expand your musical horizons
I highly recommend this class. Students get feedback on their playing and make tremendous progress in performance skills and playing skills.
Pick a good chamber group! You experience will vary if you fit well with your group and if you can work well with them. MAKE SURE they are willing to put in the time to practice as much as you're willing to.
You should definitely take this course if you enjoy playing chamber music! I think it really enhanced my performance tremendously.
Don't audition without a pre-formed group. Because Professor Stepner is a violinist, your mileage will vary based on your instrument (Professor Levin will return next semester, which will be useful for pianists).
This course offers an enjoyable, moderately serious opportunity to expand one's musical horizons with a relatively low weekly time commitment.  I would recommend preparing repertoire for this class prior to the start of the semester and having a predetermined chamber music group in order.
The class will really change the way you think about music and its performance, no matter how many times you take the course.
Yes, Levin thinks highly of himself, but he has a right to. He's a genius, and he seems to know all Western music in every genre composed since the Baroque period; he can play you anything on the piano (whether or not it was written for piano) at any time. It's really amazing. I think he's very passionate about teaching. He clearly cares about his students, and they give him hope about the state of classical music in the world. He always gets very emotional and profound about the music, but it's always extremely sincere and convincing. It's worth taking the class over and over because he basically spews wisdom and knowledge about music, history, culture, languages, and you-never-know-what-else for three hours. Private coachings are also extremely valuable. Don't miss a chance to work with Levin - 180 will be one of the best music classes you take here.
If you're serious about performance, take this course.
If you want to talk about music, become a better musician, improve your ear,...this is the class!
For any Harvard students who ever regretted not going to a conservatory, this class will soothe those regrets.
Taking 180 is one of the best choices you can make as a musician at Harvard. The opportunity to play incredible music, get to know the pieces your classmates are studying, and gain the insights of the professors is unparalleled. The more you put into this class, the more you get out of it.
Music 180 is a wonderful, unparalleled musical experience at Harvard; you get the chance to work with some of the very best musical minds in the world, and to create music with your peers as a result of satisfyingly difficult work. That being said, this class requires an intensive commitment of time and energy, and has its high-stress moments. If you know what you're getting yourself into and are thrilled by the prospect of chamber music being one of the most meaningful and demanding parts of your semester, you will love this experience.
Good; the portion where other students comment on the playing can be frustrating, as many obviously do not know what they are doing
Take it... and pay attention.. and this course will change the way you think about music.
Levin is fantastic! An immense wealth of knowledge.
Class is held at an incovenient time and for an inconvenient length of time each week, but the thought-provoking, original ideas I learned from the faculty (not to mention the analytical processes used to obtain them) have contributed profoundly to my musical development.
The 3 hour classes are really annoying, and the professors tend to ramble....Didn't get much out of this class.
Wonderful chamber music!!
One of the classes you must take if you are a serious musician; Prof. Levin makes each class engaging and memorable
I would warn future students not to take this class as a throw-away.  The more energy and effort you put in, the more you will get out of it.
Great class.  It will change the way you think about music.
Professor Levin is quite inspiring--his coaching style focuses on the music rather than on technique, so you will come to understand your piece deeply after taking this course.  However, to call the three hour class a "masterclass" is misleading.  Rarely do the professors coach groups in front of the class; rather, the floor is opened to the students, and then the professors make a few remarks.  There is little coached rehearsal/revision that goes on when a group plays for the class.  The time commitment varies entirely based on how often your group chooses to rehearse. Additionally, coachings are not "Wednesdays at 5" - you schedule them when you feel ready, and this often results in having fewer coachings per semester than you might like.
Take it if you're willing to work.
A student's musical experience at Harvard is not complete until he or she participates in a semester of Music 180.
This is one of the best music courses to take at Harvard, and an amazing opportunity to study with Prof. Levin and soak in his wisdom. It also offers the chance to work with some of the best players at Harvard. The only drawback is the 3-hour long classes on Monday nights, so it takes some concentration.
This class is a rare chance to perform music and study the performance of music for credit at Harvard. The professors, Robert Levin and Daniel Stepner, are amazingly insightful musicians. The class is not for everybody -- the level of performance expected is high, and the class entails weekly three-hour meetings in which students are asked to participate. For those students who are interested, however, the class is a delight and a source of encouragement and inspiration.
a good class but sometimes frustrating. class time can sometimes feel like a waste. too much talking not enough playing. but a good class overall.
Anybody who is a serious musician at Harvard ought to think seriously about getting a group together and doing this class.  You need to experience Robert Levin up close.
I loved this class. Professor Levin was particularly amazing.
Levin is retiring...not sure what's happening to this course, so I'm not sure what to recommend.
If you want to pursue music as your carrer, this class is for you. I'm so proud that I had amazing comments and coaching from Professor Levin before his retirement. Since students are definitely the top musicians on campus, the peer pressure to perform with high level technique and emotion inspired me a lot as a musician.
It is sad the Professor Levin is retiring, but it was still so great to be able to play with such amazing musicians!
Levin and Stepner were both very helpful in coachings. The 3-hr classes were usually very slow and the professors' comments were not usually as valuable as in coachings.
Levin makes it!
This course has so much potential for musically-serious students at Harvard. It used to be the one haven for them -- Robert Levin is SO invested in his students. He's available outside of class for as many coachings as you wish, for personal advice and inspiring speeches. Dan Stepner and Victoria are also invested in coachings. The end of class is extremely moving, with the two end-of-year concerts, and the weekly opportunities to perform are rewarding for groups. Robert Levin's retirement will be a loss to the school.HOWEVER: it's getting worse. It was much too large this year. A lot of student-given suggestions are not particularly useful, and too much of class was spent nitpicking on subjects such as reliable editions and very detailed performance practice. Too little of class was spent actually coaching groups and working through the piece, and so the three hours became quite a drag. The occasional class makes up for it by being incredibly insightful, usually when Robert Levin gives a thorough analysis of the work's progression and brings in his thorough knowledge of other works. Overall, however, it felt slow. Improvement only came from the individual group coachings, and masterclasses were quite useless.
One of the best classes at Harvard. I am so honored to have been part of Prof Levin's final class. It is likely never to be as good as it has been without Levin now, but Prof Stepner is also great (just a little drier)!
Great class.
Be prepared to approach pieces from a performer's and theorist's perspectives
You will only get out of this class as much as the effort that you put into it. Other than that, it's necessary for all musicians to have a good performance class but to also really immerse themselves in what the music is about and how it relates to people and the way they live.
Best music class at Harvard. Anyone who aspires to be involved with music seriously needs to take this class. Robert Levin is truly a magical man.
Hopefully they will find someone with the same wealth of experience, passion, and love for students as Professor Levin, but unfortunately I don't think any other such person exists.
Professor Levin is the key part of making this course a success, so without his teaching/lecturing I have a heard time recommending this class in the future.
While there are definitely issues with the course - mainly administrative aspects - getting to hear Levin speak about music, even if he's only there for half of the classes, is worth it to take the course, because he's actually brilliant. (Even though it is frustrating how frequently he can't make class, because it's not as good without him.) But I think your enjoyment/how much you get out of the course is also correlated to how much you enjoy your group and the music that you're personally working on.
Robert Levin is a genius and a very caring person. The course is worthwhile because of him.
the nature of the class discussion is weird - it's mandatory so you feel you must critique but people always seem to judge each other by how profound or not profound their comment is.  maybe its just the clique nature of this past semester's class.
This course is something that every serious musician at Harvard should take at leats for the one-time experience of hearing Professor Levin's insights. It is a significant and sometimes frustrating time commitment to have a three hour class on Tuesday evenings, but worthwhile if you are really prepared to have the mindset for it. The class is demanding, but if you really put significant time into rehearsals (small groups are best in order to best coordinate your schedules), you'll emerge with a lot of growth. Professor Levin always comes with incredible enthusiasm and commitment, and he is highly motivated about giving extra coachings, which you should take advantage of during the rare weeks he's on campus. Classes can be slow when he's absent traveling,  but the other performers have quite a high level and Professor Stepner can have some helpful comments. He's only here for one moer semester -- take it!!
This is one of the best courses offered by the music department!
Robert Levin missed literally half of the classes.  At one point, he scheduled an extra meeting on a Sunday at a time that was not confirmed until two days before.  When people had long-planned conflicts he threw a tantrum in the form of the most absurd email I've ever read from a professor. The way he would cry crocodile tears about how "guilty" he felt about missing so much class while simultaneously ranting about how disrespectful it is for us not to cancel prior commitments to come in on a Sunday was insulting and arrogant, especially considering how much work the students put into the course.  At times, the course is absolutely fantastic, though. My coachings with Levin were immensely productive and stimulating, as were the times I performed in lecture.  However, due to Levins scarcity, there were too few of both.   You can get a lot out of this class, but be prepared to have to deal with a lot of nonsense in the process.
Think carefully about taking this class once Professor Levin is gone.
Amazing class, amazing learning and performing opportunity.
Great opportunity to study a piece of music with renowned musicians; receive great deal of constructive feedback from both professors and students
Music 180r is a great course.
I think taking this class is the best way to learn chamber music at Harvard; Prof. Levin's lectures and coachings are amazing, and the class fosters a sense of community. The class meetings are rather long and in the evening, but the amount that you learn makes it worth it.
Music 180 is a wonderful opportunity to explore a piece of chamber music in great detail.  In this class even more so than in many others, you get out what you put in - be prepared to work hard.
You are guaranteed at least three transcendental experiences in this class, along with an unbreakable emotional connection to the piece you choose (so choose wisely).
It's a wonderful class, but very time-consuming.
Prof. Levin knows more than anyone about classical repertoire
Take this class if you have a passion for chamber music and wished to be coached by two exceptional and inspirational professors.
Don't hesitate to comment on the little details of any group's performance and/or the piece they present; even the seemingly trivial things often turn out to be quite fascinating and important to one's understanding of the music.
Professor Levin can definitely be pretentious, but he has enough knowledge and wisdom to offer that this course is definitely worth taking at least once, for any musician.
Robert Levin's teaching is one of the wonders of the university, and an opportunity not to be taken lightly.
This class is a unique opportunity for Harvard students. It truly allows you to immerse yourself in the study of a piece of chamber music for a semester.
Music 180 is a must for any serious musician. It's a really great course. This was my third time taking it, and I plan to take it again!
A great opportunity to work your performance skills at Harvard!
A very interesting course. The opportunity to critcially engage with scores and make informed decisions from them really helped me grow as a chamber musician. I was also amazed at the extra opportunities the course offered. Few other places can you get a masterclass from Yo-Yo Ma and the Juilliard String Quartet in one semester!
It's worthwhile!  Its a great course if you are looking for a performance class at Harvard!
This class if great for students looking for more performance opportunities on campus. My abilities as a performer greatly improved.
avoid coachings with stepner
be prepared to sit through three hours of class every monday evening- it can get pretty tiring, but the feedback you will receive from professor wyner/stepner and the class is very valuable.
It's a great way to do chamber music for credit and you learn a lot about the professors' ideas, a great number of which are valuable.
The class can be enriching, but it can also be frustrating because of the long class length.
I think you the amount you get out of the class depends on how much you put into it since it's a performance class. The class environment is pretty supportive and friendly.
This course is the only performance course offered by the music department, and is a great way to explore chamber music in a performance setting over a semester.  The course is an opportunity to perform, learn about performance and exchange ideas about music, under the guidance of well-known professional musicians.
