COME AUDITION! IF YOU'RE GOOD WE WANT YOU!
While this is a time-demanding class, you learn a lot about orchestra-playing and make a lot of good friends!
HRO is great!
HRO is love. HRO is life.
HRO is an incredible community that brings together the best classical musicians at Harvard. Join to be challenged, to play your very best, and to enter a wonderful family of musicians. HRO is a fairly large time commitment, but it's absolutely worth it.
I knew I was going to join HRO even during Visitas. HRO is the highest level orchestral performing group at Harvard. There is a great family of students of all grades, and we try to organize social activities as well as get a great repertoire for concerts. There are many opportunities to get involved with leadership and board positions. Fed is a hilarious and caring conductor.
GET EXCITED FOR TOUR! I'M SO EXCITED!
Do HRO! Fed is the best conductor you will ever work with.
You will learn a lot about orchestral playing, and Fed is a great conductor and will teach you a lot. Also, the group is very friendly and fun.
Most likely, you will end up spending a lot of time in rehearsal, wishing you were somewhere else, and you won't feel like you're part of the orchestra because the people really aren't that close with each other unless you're on the board.
HRO isn't really about the music anymore, which really saddens me. For the students who love music but chose to go the non-professional route, HRO is supposedly the highest caliber orchestra on the campus, but everyone is too busy worrying about trying to get in the Signet and partying like a fraternity. No one practices the music and at rehearsals everyone, including Fed, seems tired, resigned, and apathetic. They don't even realize what a privilege it is to play music like this. I wish they would value the experience a little more. I hope going on tour to the Philippines and Korea will help give us a purpose to improve our sound and will help us build a stronger community so that we can be more accountable to each other and motivate each other to practice and come on time to rehearsal.
I absolutely enjoy being a part of the Harvard-Radcliffe Orchestra. If you get the chance to audition, you should definitely do so.
HRO is a serious ensemble that plays difficult orchestral repertoire. Fed is a fantastic conductor and is extremely patient with the orchestra. You must be a serious musician and always be prompt to rehearsal.
HRO is an amazing community of fantastic musicians. Do it!
Be aware that HRO is necessarily a large time commitment, and that you should be careful to manage how it fits into the rest of your schedule
HRO is fantastic--if you get a chance to be a part of it, definitely take it!
I came to Harvard because of HRO. I wanted to be able to continue playing seriously while keeping as many career options open as possible. I guess it succeeds, but is plagued by Harvardification by being an inherently political organization.
It's perhaps the best orchestra experience you can find at Harvard. However, be warned that it takes a lot of time and commitment.
I've played in a lot of orchestras on campus, but HRO is easily the most fulfilling group I've played with here.  You get course credit for playing with the best musicians on campus- what else could you want?
I love Fed and this was a lot of fun but many of its members did not seem to genuinely enjoy the music-making process, and the politics behind HRO seemed a bit weird and uncomfortable. As a freshman, I did not feel very welcomed and just felt aloof throughout the entire semester.
I really enjoy participating in HRO, and I encourage all musicians to audition.
It takes a lot of time.  In addition to 5 hours a week of rehearsal there are Saturday retreats.  Your ability to do other kinds of extracurriculars might be limited.
HRO is a big time commitment and has a few restrictions that may be off-putting to some students, like attendance. HRO's organization will probably change yearly but I found it to be disorganized this year. The community is good, and Fed is a great conductor.
wonderful group, wonderful conductor, great music. intense though, so commitment is necessary
It's been so far a great experience! I recommend it.
If you are an incoming musician and worried about not being able to keep up with music, do HRO! It's a blast and the orchestra is really top notch--I assure you that you will be inspired by those with whom you play, and if you're too good to be inspired, come lead and inspire others :)
If you can get in, you should join! HRO's a great community with some great people, and you get to make absolutely sublime music
Audition for HRO!
It is indeed a large time commitment. Try to find a group of people you can be comfortable around.
Great course for continuing music in college.
Before entering HRO, one should think carefully about the commitment he or she is willing to put into the organization. For many people, this is their main extracurricular activity, which creates a close sense of community, but it's difficult to play in the orchestra when one's priority is in other extracurricular activities.
HRO is a great orchestra. It's no one's first priority, so sometimes the dedication level wavers a bit, which is too bad, but everyone is a good player and being in the orchestra is an overall positive experience.
Fun
You must audition, be prepared for many hours of rehearsal.
HRO is a great orchestra that plays big symphonic repertoire. Fed is an awesome conductor and is very easy to approach. You must be willing to put in the time outside of rehearsal to practice, and to be at every rehearsal EARLY so that you are on stage, ready to play by 7:00 p.m. when rehearsal starts. Lateness and disrespectful behavior (i.e. talking during rehearsal/not paying attention to Fed when he is talking to your section) are unacceptable.
HRO is fun and will make you new friends.
It's a huge time commitment, but it pays off in performances.
A big time commitment but it is worth it for those who value music and are willing to put in the time to practice and attend rehearsals. Rewarding for those who value a musical community with talented players.
The HRO community is wonderful, and Fed does an amazing job with connecting with each member personally. We play challenging but rewarding repertoire. I haven't met anyone who is unhappy with the HRO experience.
Rehearsals are good but sometimes the course is time consuming.
You get as much out of HRO as you put in. Fed is a great guy who really cares about each one of his students if you get to know him. Please take the class and attendance seriously for the sake of everyone in the group
The Harvard-Radcliffe Orchestra is the top orchestra at Harvard, and it's also an awesome group of people. If you play an orchestral instrument and are interested, audition! It's a great experience.
Fed is amazing! I love HRO!
This is a great group to be a part of if you are willing to provide the effort that is required, and the excitement you receive from being in this group will be immense. If you are not willing to provide good effort for playing in this ensemble, then do not take it.
There is simply no substitute for HRO at Harvard.
A serious commitment, but well worth it.
hooray
It is a commitment and Fed can oftentimes be very demanding.
This is a great orchestra--you'll become a better musician for participating in it.
Damn - we have to do a formal evaluation? I know that getting grades is cool - but this is totally not worth it!
The more people come to rehearsals prepared and on time, the more the whole orchestra gets from the experience. HRO has so many talented players and each person's commitment contributes enormously to the ensemble level- and morale- wise.
you must have the time to attend all rehearsals and practice
HRO is the best! Why are you reading the Q to decide whether or not to take orchestra?
Fed can be testy. Be prepared for that
I can't really imagine my Harvard experience without HRO--I have been a member basically since the first week of freshman year, and it has been a gateway to making new friendships, connecting with upperclassmen, and a tether to what I had known and loved to do back in high school. Definitely a great experience so far!
It's HRO.  If you are a proficient classical musician you should take it.
HRlOve <3
Fed is a great conductor and works very hard with students. The selection of music is rather good. This class demands time like any other intensive course. If you decide to enroll, factor the 5 hours rehearsal time into your schedule.
I really liked the music we played this semester
It is great to work with other musicians and be part of a solid and musical group.
If you like playing in an orchestra (and like playing good music), you should audition.
take it! hro's wonderful.
The orchestra is fantastic, but you have to be willing to put in the time for rehearsals.
This is an orchestra and thus requires a significant time commitment. If you don't want to put in the time, don't do it, but if you do have the time, it is a very rewarding experience.
Fed is amazing!
Be prepared for a big time commitment. A little awkward to be new, but by the second semester in the organization you really become a part of a community. Fed is incredible.
I love that HRO has become a class. It is very rewarding for the effort that you put in, especially when it is very easy to forget that it is a class because HRO is like my family.
HRO is the best orchestra on campus. If you want to be a part of the strongest musical community, please audition and play among all the beautiful musicians.
HR<3 is a way of life. It's too bad that this class is no longer being offered for a letter grade since an extra elective credit doesn't bolster your transcript, but you shouldn't let that dissuade you. HRO is by far my favorite extracurricular and you should absolutely join!
Great people, great music, great memories.
HRO is wonderful. Join it and stuff.
Yay HRO
I love HRO! It's a lot of fun, and Fed is a wonderful, caring conductor.
Fed is one of the most caring mentors I've seen.
I would not take HRO as a class. It is something that I really enjoyed doing last year as an extracurricular, but I think that it should have stayed that way. It makes it annoying to take 5 academic classes as you have to get special permission from the Dean (orchestra becomes your 6th class), and nothing is added to the experience by it being a class.
Fed is cool, the performances are big, and the time commitment is low. What more would you want?
If you want to play in a orchestra with serious musical chops, audition for HRO! You won't regret it.... Be warned Fed (our conductor) can get a little testy at times, especially during stressful dress rehearsals, but at the end of the day you'll love HRO with a burning passion.
It's a wonderful orchestra with a passionate student body and a world class conductor. Sometimes the interaction, and this is very rarely, with the conductor and the students is not kind and stressful and scary
HRO is a great orchestra and it is fun to be a member. Fed is an awesome conductor, and we play great pieces. You must be prepared to make the time commitment to all rehearsals and concerts, to be early to all rehearsals in order to be ready to play at the beginning, and to be a serious contributor to the group.
Join the Harvard College French Horn Society.
HRO is amazing - audition!
HRO is one of the best things at Harvard.
HRO is an awesome group!
Good class, but be warned about the untimely weekday rehearsals. If you're a serious musician, understand that most of the musicians in the orchestra won't care about the music as much as you.
It's HRO. Do it.
