Join! It's a bit of a time commitment, but you get to sing some great music and make some great friends.
Collegium is an amazing community to belong to, and it is wonderful being surrounded by peers who share the same passion for music.
Collegium has been my favorite experience at Harvard, hands down. What an amazing group!
So glad to have become a part of the Collegium family. It's a great chorus with an wonderful group of extremely talented and enthusiastic singers.
Collegium is an excellent musical opportunity to sing both masterworks and newer works with a very tight-knit community of students. Concerts are the rewarding culmination of weeks of rehearsal, and tours provide the opportunity to share our music with the world.
This group of individuals is absolutely incredible. They are fully dedicated to producing beautiful music and are so encouraging to all their singers.
Just do it. Collegium will help you grow as a person and as a musician.
Collegium is the best! It is such a loving and welcome community of people that all love to sing. Andy and Kira are amazing conductors that share their love for music with us. When I see photos of the newies (newly recruited members), I always think to myself: "Collegium has the best newies". And I can actually think of at least 1 reason for each new person as to why they make Collegium great. Join Collegium! you too can be part of this amazing community of singers!
It's immersive, enjoyable, my peers are excellent, and the instructors are brilliant
Collegium is wonderful, and there's no reason not to take it for credit if you're in it!
Collegium is the absolute best! I can't believe how much I have grown as a musician and a singer, not to mention the amazing family that we've all grown into as well. I love being with Andy and Kira, and the music-making this semester was my best one yet with Messiah
Collegium is an absolutely incredible ensemble, both in terms of musical quality and community. If you love choral music and are looking for a group with whom to truly enjoy music, this is it!
If you're already singing in the Collegium, there's no reason not to take it as a course to get credit for the rigorous work that you do!
Great opportunity to sing at a high standard. Turnover of pieces, however, may be too slow for some people. Means less sightreading practice than could be possible. You may go weeks singing the same pieces to prepare for a concert.
Collegium creates a remarkable sense of community while pushing your musicianship. Since starting with the group, I have hugely deepened my appreciation and understanding of a variety of composers and their musical eras.  In the College, it is a unique experience to learn both from your professor/conductor and from your peers in a collaborative environment.  It's a real privilege.
Collegium is wonderful- it is not too much of a time commitment, it counts as an extracurricular as well as a course, the music is amazing, and the Holden Choruses are a warm and welcoming community.
HRCM is a really incredible choir. This is my 4th year in the choir and I absolutely adore our repertoire and conductors. However, our repertoire is definitely very different from that of most of the a cappella groups on campus, so I highly recommend attending the preview performance at the beginning of the year or looking into some of the choir's past repertoire. I absolutely love the music we sing but fully acknowledge it is not appealing to every college undergraduate. The social aspect to this choir is really fun and I definitely feel I have a family in the other members of this choir. If you like our repertoire, you should definitely audition!!
Join the Collegium! Such a wonderful music-making group. The passion for choral music is evident in each member, the community is phenomenal, and the repertoire fantastic.
Go to rehearsals and have fun!
Collegium has defined my college experience. You will be hard-pressed to find a group of people at Harvard more committed to musical excellence, supportive of full-body health and learning, and unconditionally loving.
Collegium has been the most rewarding experience of my college career thus far. This is an opportunity to meet some amazing people who will become great friends, join a community of other singers on campus, and all the while make some of the most beautiful music there is together. Time commitments for rehearsal are not terribly demanding and there are a ton of fun social activities throughout the year. There is also the opportunity to take on a role in helping manage the choir, which provides a ton of great experience. Audition for Holden and join Collegium!
If you're in Collegium, there's really no reason not to take it as a class!
Collegium is the best group on campus! A wonderful community, and a great musical experience. Audition in the fall!
It's so much fun! Collegium is such a wonderful community.
Take this option for Collegium if you want a pass/fail class for whatever reason. Since this counts as a course, you could take it with a difficult semester of other classes, only requiring three actual courses for one semester!
Collegium is filled with some of the best people you'll meet during your time at Harvard.
