An incredible class but a lot of busy work.
Definitely take Music 1! It will introduce to a (presumably) different world of appreciation. Prof. Dolan is incredible and really makes this course worthwhile. Over the course of the semester, you will learn to listen to music, and this ability is something you will cherish for a lifetime.
I'm sad this semester is ending because I won't be in Music 1 next semester
This was one of the most amazing classes I've ever taken here and anyone who is interested in music and taking a class to appreciate great musical works should absolutely take this class. Emily is one of the best professors I've had for a gen ed and makes everything so fun and easy to understand.
My favorite course I have ever taken at Harvard! I am so glad that I got to take it before I graduated. If you like classical music and grew up with a background in piano or voice or music in general, then take this course! I've never enjoyed studying and doing work so much in my entire Harvard experience. Best class ever!!!
This is an interesting and easy class that does the difficult job of teaching years of music history within one semester.  The instructors are knowledge and fun and the material is interesting and musical.  There isn't a requirement of music before the course and the assignments are very forgiving.
This is a wonderful course that will give you a strong foundational knowledge of the history of Western music. If you have any interest in a broad survey of music history definitely take this course.
Easily in the top three classes I've ever taken at Harvard (took it senior spring as an elective).  If you're at all interested in "classical music" (Western art music), play any instrument, or want to expand your musical horizons, take this class.  Professor Dolan is incredibly enthusiastic and gives great lectures that include listening to relevant music during class while she indicates important details to notice.  She was almost out-shined by the two fabulous TFs, whose encyclopedic knowledge of music history and funny, lighthearted teaching styles made me look forward to section every week.  Overall, the teaching staff made lecture and section incredibly easy to enjoy, and the work itself for the class was easy as well.  Listening quizzes were no problem despite sounding difficult, and the listening portfolios were easy and fun to write.  Other deliverables were low-stress as well.  While it is a "new" class, there were no teething issues because Professor Dolan taught the same class at Penn before coming here, and the TFs are seasoned veterans. If you don't take this class, you are missing out on one of Harvard's finest new offerings.
Make sure to actually do all of the listening, etc or you're seriously cheating yourself out of a great listening/learning experience.
Take it as an elective!
This class was a lot of fun! It is very interesting, and you don't need any musical background. Listening to atonal music near the end of the semester made me want to kill myself, but that was because of the music- the class itself is awesome. Take it!
This course is surprisingly difficult but is not a large time commitment.  As a quantitative concentrator, one of my favorite courses.  This is what gen eds should be like - informative, interesting, perspective-widening, and fun.
I loved this course. Great intro to music and the assignments are really fun and creative. Pretty much one of the only genuinely fun and exciting courses I've taken here.
Take it! Music 1 is one of the most amazing classes I have ever taken! No matter if you are an accomplished musician or just a person who loves music, music 1 gives you a wide range of exposure of music to appreciate any kinds of music (from gregorian chant to John Cage). Professor Dolan is also an amazing lecturer. Her lecture is really engaging and inspiring. I recommend with full heart.
This class is a gem, where I was challenged and where I learned a lot, but also a class I never hated due to stress. The assignments are fun and and,  though the exams are a little tedious (a lot of detail). My biggest takeaway was being excited about culture and the world again!
This class was the best experience I have had at Harvard so far and I think every student should try and take it.
Professor Dolan makes this course amazing. Her lectures were thoughtful and informative (and funny), and her genuine passion for music shines through. It's a fun course--I genuinely enjoyed studying for the final exam because I got to listen to some of the best music in Western tradition.
Possibly the best GenEd to take for A&I if you're not really into poetry and narrative analysis. Teaching staff is great, but it's not the lightest GenEd work-wise. There are a more graded assignments than one might expect.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Professor Dolan is a brilliant, engaging, and dynamic lecturer who will make you love every musical style that you listen to. The work load for this course is consistent, but never overwhelming, and the class is just an enjoyable and wonderful experience. One of my favorite courses at Harvard by far.
Take this! It's a painless, awesome, fun gen ed with cool people teaching it. What more do you want?
This class has been one of my favorites! As someone with a music background, I still found this course insightful and informative! Professor Dolan is amazing and brings enthusiasm to every lecture, along with her humor! Honestly, I looked forward to Music 1 because its fun and effectively uses multi-media in class meetings (we watched clips of operas and listened to music and analyzed them). The work isn't too much at all, and the class in itself is very rewarding as you refine your listening skills and your analytical skills in general. Really a must take for anyone who wants to learn more about music!!!!! TAKE this course for your A&I or elective, you won't regret it! After this course, I don't think I listen to music in quite the same way!
Hands down one of the best classes I have taken in my 4 years here. Both lectures and sections are AMAZING and you will learn so much about how to appreciate different kinds of music. Professor Dolan and Trevor are very smart and knowledgeable and they do a very good giving a big picture of how classical music fit into history, art, and philosophy, which I really appreciate.The workload is not little for a GenEd but everything makes sense and adds to the curriculum, nothing feels unnecessary. Highly highly recommend this class!
This course is SO MUCH FUN. In some ways, I really regret taking it pass/fail because I'd have liked the opportunity to engage more deeply with the material. It's beautifully structured, and a big part of your homework and studying for exams is just listening to gorgeous pieces of music over and over again! Everyone should take a course like this. It's low stress but you learn so much and it's just a fabulous time.
This is an amazing class and I highly recommend it.
A fascinating introduction to music.
I took the gamble of taking this first year course. It was fantastic! I'm a statistics concentrator and had a lot of doubts about which AIU gen-ed to take. This course taught me so much about the history of music and how it changed over time. Now I appreciate earlier musical styles so much more. I fully recommend this course. Also, Trevor was a fantastic TF.
If you are at all interested in "classical" music, I cannot recommend this class with any more enthusiasm. This is one of the if not the best class I have taken at Harvard.
Great class! Very low stress, but really interesting and fun. Prof. Dolan was great, and the assignments were easy and entertaining. My goal with this class was to appreciate classical music more, and I feel like I really do now! Painless A&I, would definitely recommend.
Great class, quite a lot of work but it is light and fun to do. You get what you put into this course. If you engage with enthusiasm, it will be one of the most fun classes you'll ever take at Harvard.
If you want to learn about western classical music history from the middle ages until today in a fun and interesting way, this is the perfect class to take.
This class is amazing. Professor Dolan was fantastic, the material is cool, and it is a super light course load. If you are looking to balance out hard pset classes, this is the class for you!
This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard (I'm a junior, so that actually means something).Professor Dolan is an incredible lecturer, and I actually looked forward to going to class. Most written assignments were creative and fun to do. Tests and listening quizzes were challenging, but fair and manageable. If you put in the work, you'll definitely be able to handle the course. I would, however, recommend having some appreciation for/ interest in classical music, or else you'll be bored out of your mind, probably.
Music 1 is incredible, both for those with and without musical backgrounds. Professor Dolan is both engaging and funny, and it is clear that she is deeply passionate about the material and wants to pass on that same enthusiasm to her students. A great Gen Ed (or even an elective)!
Take this class!!!! It is one of my favorite courses I've taken in four years at Harvard. Every lecture was so engaging, and I felt like I learned so many useful and wonderful things about music (even with no prior music experience). My appreciation for music has increased tremendously. The teaching staff was awesome and the assignments (like a concert review) were fun. I can't recommend it highly enough!
This class is fun, and not much work. I would definitely satisfy the AI gen ed requirement with this.
It's a very fun course! You learn a ton about music history and listen to so much great music. Although the assignments are minimal, the more you listen to the course's music and engage with kick starters and readings, the more you get out of the course. This has been my favorite course so far at Harvard, and I am so glad I chose to take it as an elective.
Dittto everyone else
This was a great course. It is useful to have some musical background but not necessary.
Honestly one of my favorite classes this semester. Its not as easy as everyone thinks it is; you can't exactly blow it off but you get out of it what you put in. There's not much work until there's a listening quiz or listening portfolio but those are not excessive either. They encourage creativity for the listening portfolios more than anything else! I had no formal musical training and wasn't familiar with any classical music but it's still doable.
It is A LOT of content, but she asks it in a way that makes it less demanding. It can be stressful but you will very likely love it.
this class was a transcendent experience. the sheer number of pieces we listened to, in ways that made them memorable, is insane - i have such a deep understanding now of how to listen to music, it's incredible. i was initially worried about the level of musical knowledge i needed to have to do well in this class, but it is the sort of class that whether you are very musically inclined or tone deaf, you'll have a phenomenal time. i had a really insane schedule outside of classes, which left me little time for assignments or listening, but if you approach it thoughtfully and with discipline, you'll be okay.
This course has been one of my favorites here at Harvard. If you have even a remote interest in music, I highly recommend this course. The sheer amount of music you are introduced to in this course makes it a great choice.
You have to spend a decent amount of time on it
This class is a fantastic way to hear the history of music and learn about it.  Professor Dolan is unbelievable and has some of the best lectures I have seen at Harvard.  Musical experience is not necessary, but can be helpful
You definitely learn a lot about all kinds to western art music in this class, and you will discover great composers and pieces you otherwise would never listen to. Professor Dolan does a great job introducing the history of art and providing in depth musical analysis of different pieces
This class is absolutely the elusive "gem" gen-ed. It covers a wide range of musical styles, from Medieval Gregorian chant to Contemporary electronic music, with everything (Bach, Haydn, Beethoven, Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, etc.) in between. Lectures on the historical context/backgrounds of composers were fascinating and I looked forward to every one. There was almost no work involved - we just had to write 500 w listening entries six times throughout the semester, and prepare for ~3 listening quizzes, where we'd have to identify and list the date, composer, genre, and performing forces of 4 of about 15 pieces from a list previously given to us. Studying for these was actually fun, and a welcome break from psets and essays. I'd take this class even if it didn't satisfy gen-ed requirements, and given that it does, everyone should absolutely take it.
IF YOU ARE READING THIS, YOU NEED TO TAKE THIS CLASS. Music 1 is a gem of an A&I and my favorite class at Harvard so far. If you are musically inclined or interested in critically listening to music in the least, take this class. Seriously, take it!! I cannot recommend it highly enough. Professor Dolan and the TFs are all so invested in your success, and their own passion for the course really shines through. It is enjoyable, fairly low stress, and just the perfect fun GenEd to round out any tough schedule. It's amazing.
Easily one of my favorite courses from my time at Harvard. I came in with very limited musical background and zero knowledge of classical music, and I am leaving the course with an appreciation and understanding of some really cool pieces of music. The work for this course is little but often, and if you do the work, you'll get the A. A perfect senior spring class, but I would recommend for anyone at any point in college.
While not impossible, this course will likely be quite difficult for students without any prior music experience. Exams and quizzes in particular will require what feels like a staggering amount of rote memorization. Writing about music can also feel frustratingly difficult if you are not thoroughly versed in the applicable music vernacular.
If you're at all interested in music, take the course! It provides an excellent introduction to the Western canon and will make you a more informed and discerning listener. The workload is light enough that I imagine it can be taken as a fifth class.
Music 1 was my favorite class I took at Harvard. If you are looking for a course that will really change the way you think about music and art, and give you an appreciation for musical creations that will last you a lifetime, Music 1 is for you! The careful and informed listening skills I'm taking away from Music 1 have enriched all performances that I attend. One word of caution - the course it mostly Western Art music, or what you would think of as the greatest hits of "classical" music: Mozart, Beethoven, Handel, Haydn, etc. Even though you cover interesting artists of the 20th century, and even some jazz, this course doesn't explore much of anything that is considered popular music. I stumbled across the course during reading period and I am beyond glad that I took it!
This is a great class to take. Prof Dolan is extremely passionate about the content and lectures are always worth attending. Having a music background helps, but is not necessary at all. The assignments sometimes feel a little extraneous, however, they do help further your understanding of the material. Work-wise this class is very manageable and if you study the material you are expected to (you're given study guides) doing well on quizzes/tests is well within reach.
If you enjoy listening to pieces rather than just analyzing them, this is the class for you. There was a considerable amount of interaction with the music that we were learning about, making the course not just an academic endeavor but a real musical experience. The instructors want you to enjoy yourself and the topics.
You learn so much from this course! It is totally manageable and clear and well-organized. Professor Dolan is a great professor and so enthusiastic and her lectures are very easy to listen to, and engaging.
This is a fun entree into classical music.  Because of the wide scope, you sort of rush through every big name, even Bach and Beethoven, but you are introduced to the specific stylistic ideas in works by people who are maybe just as influential but much less known.  Got to class, study your notes, and listen to the music on repeat before exams and you'll get an A.
This course is a lovely way of learning about music history. Be prepared to have to do some work, definitely more than I initially assumed. It is manageable, very manageable, but still present.
I thought this class provided an excellent introduction to music history. I came into this class with no musical background, and I now feel that I am familiar with the major movements and figures of the last 1000 years. Emily is an enthusiastic, charismatic lecturer who makes the material come alive. However, I do think that covering 1000 years was a bit ambitious, and I think the class might have benefitted from a tighter focus. I often felt like we were just scraping the surface of particular topics and composers, and I would have rather engaged more deeply with a subset of the material-- perhaps just the Enlightenment and Romantic periods-- then attempted to get such a broad history under my belt. I also still don't feel very confident about interpreting music on a formal level, and I wish we had spent a little more time practicing this. Especially for students without a musical background, starting with the technical basics and then building from there would have been helpful. But overall, this was an enriching and enjoyable introduction to the discipline of musicology.
This is an amazing class! Please take it! You don't need any musical background (although I did), just an open mind and a willingness to learn! Professor Dolan and the TFs definitely work hard to make the class and the topic as accessible as possible, and it shows. This course was an awesome overview of musical history! Professor Dolan makes absolutely amazing powerpoint slides that combine information and humor in a very great way. I loved listening to guest performers, and this class gave me access to many great concerts (if I so desired), and gave me initiative to see the BSO at Symphony Hall through the FDO's Night at the Symphony (an awesome thing! definitely take advantage of it)! I think that this class really helped me to see music in a different way, as well as gain a greater appreciation for the history of music that can actually (surprisingly) be applied to the present. I even really enjoyed all of the assignments--some of them seemed difficult (especially the more technical ones) and I wasn't sure that I would be able to complete them, but I did, and now have many more skills than I started the class with! Take this class!!!
Music 1 provides an excellent introduction to the history of classical music (though there's a slight greater focus on vocal music). It's taught in an incredibly compelling way! Should be doable for anyone, regardless of music experience, though having a musical ear, as always, will make the course easier.
The material in this class is fun, the lectures are great, and the music we studied was wonderfully selected. The course staff was very friendly and approachable. I did have musical background going in, so I have no way of knowing how difficult it is without musical background. One annoying thing about exams was that they were a pure information dump, and studying for them was rote memorization.
Great overview of music history! Tunes your ear and sharpens your knowledge of music and of history.
This course does not call for any past musical experience, although some experience would help. The assignments and the tests focus on your interpretation of music history, rather than pure facts and dates. This helps you to develop your own understanding of musical history that is unaffected by the views of the teaching staff.
Music 1 has a great teaching staff. They are all very helpful and very friendly. However, it is a lot of memorization in this class. Not a lot of application and analyzation. You do learn a great deal about music though.
I cannot recommend this course highly enough. It was unquestionably one of my favorite courses at Harvard. The investment of time outside the classroom is manageable and extremely rewarding. Take this class!
If you actually prep for the listening quizzes, they're no big deal. Give this course the attention it needs, you'll be fine, but don't just blow it off.
It's not an easy Gen Ed where you can not study a lot and get by; you actually have to be prepared to do a lot of listening.
You will develop a greater appreciation and understanding of Western history. Simply getting to know the structure and technique in songs will give you a better ear. You will be less inclined to lump all old music into one classical group, but rather understand the differences and enjoy them. Good course. I recommend reading the book alongside lecture, and definitely go to your TF for office hours for the assigments
It makes you an educated listener
unnecessary attention to detail
Great course! Appropriate difficulty for a gen-ed; intellectually challenging but not too much work time-wise. It really opens your eyes to the world of music.
Those who love western classical music and would like to understand the history the created the music.
This course is just amazing. The midterm/exams are very difficult because there is essentially no curve (or even an anti-curve) since everyone does so well! Nonetheless, the material is very interesting and among all the courses I took this semester I enjoy this one for the pure sake of learning.
This was definitely the most enjoyable class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Dolan is a really good lecturer and I actually enjoyed much of the homework/studying. It's a very interesting course even if you're experienced with music!
This is a great class for anyone looking for an overview of the Western art music tradition. Professor Dolan is a fantastic lecturer, striking a nice balance between historical context and close musical analysis. The course is very well organized and there are plenty of opportunities for listening, both in and out of class. The expectations for all of the assignments are clear and the grading is very fair. Having some formal music knowledge is nice, especially at the beginning of the semester, but for people (like me) without it, getting up to speed is pretty painless.
Great class!
Taking this course my senior spring was one of the best academic decisions I've made at Harvard.  This course is a delight--a good third to half of the coursework is listening to incredible classical music, and the other half is fun, brief writing assignments on pieces we listen to.  Although I had a little music theory experience, I don't think it was at all necessary, and I got more use out of my music performance knowledge.  There are so many pieces that I heard as a kid that I now have connected to their names and composers, and I heard a lot of cool pieces that I hadn't heard before.
keep lecture notes organize-- they will come in handy for the tests
This class requires more workload than the average gen ed, but it's worth it as the material is really interesting.
This class is excellent. You'll end up learning A LOT of material and will be much more knowledgeable about the Western music canon by the end of the course. Professor Doland is a fantastic lecturer and incredibly engaging. The work load is light, but not a joke. You will have to seriously prepare for the listening quizzes and sections of the exams.
You should be aware that this class is a medium amount of work, with fairly consistent listening quizzes and listening portfolios. There is pretty much something every week. I would say it is one of the harder geneds out there.
You get as much as you put into it. If you put the time in, you will learn a lot and enjoy the music.
TAKE IT!!! DO NOT EVEN QUESTION IT!! Emily says the word lovely a lot and honestly she, Katie and the class are all lovely!!! If you are remotely interested in music or just curious this is an amazing introduction to wester music. You really don't need a background in music. I play no instruments, cannot read music. In fact, my parents put me in solfege in middle school and I got scarred and this class was absolutely amazing. You won't love all the pieces but you will learn to articulate why you do not and you will actually have good reasons for it. Best Senior Spring Elective!!!!
This course is an awesome and fulfilling general education course. I found the class rewarding even though I had a decent knowledge of music and music history. The exams and assignments are easy if you put in the time to study or do them well. This is an enjoyable course (perhaps my favorite so far), and I would recommend it anyone looking who is interested in music.
This class is wonderful. Professor Dolan is truly enthusiastic about the subject material and lectures/sections were always something I looked forward to attending. There is a minimal weekly workload, though on days leading up to an exam or listening quiz, considerable more time and effort was required (especially if one is not familiar with the music we are studying). Overall, it's a great course and I learned a lot about the history of music and appreciating it more.
this course seems like an easy A but worth it
TAKE THIS CLASS!!  I really can't recommend it highly enough--not that much work, really high learning-to-work ratio, caring and wonderful professor!
musical background not necessary but helpful. topics and works covered were great!
Loved this course. Introduces you to a lot of enjoyable music.
The listening component is a lot of work but other than that the class is great. Take it if you're willing to put the time in. I have never been in a class in which the teaching staff is so helpful, encouraging and accessible! The Prof and TF really helped me, a student with no musical background, feel more comfortable with the material.
it requires work! more than you would probably be hoping for
This class is a memorization class. If you put in the time, you will do well.  If you want an a gen-ed that's less time intensive, I would look elsewhere.
Highly enjoyable study of music even for those with no background.
This course did an excellent job of deepening my understanding of music history. As a choir singer myself, I am exposed to a variety of music, but I often lack the background knowledge of the pieces, or how they fit in a broader musical context. This course delivers on its promise to provide 1000 years of listening; I got to learn about how music developed in the past millennium, and looked at trends and big ideas in the history of music.Professor Dolan is a skilled and passionate lecturer, and her lectures always a joy to watch. Similarly, the section leaders are passionate and very knowledgeable about music.If you're looking for an Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding gen ed, this is hands down the one to take.
THIS CLASS IS BOTH EASY AND INTERESTING. The assignments are NEVER too hard, nor are they ever graded too harshly. Dolan is a wonderful lecturer, with equally enthusiastic teaching staff. An interest/background in classical music (like if you played piano when you were little) VERY helpful, not necessary (might change the way you view the course, however). One of the best ways to fulfill this GenEd
Love it! Though I generally dislike history, I now realize that music history is something else entirely. Cool material, fun assignments, fair exams -- what's not to like?
This is a nice elective and intro music class to take. There is a bit of writing required, so be prepared to do some work. If you have an interest in classical music and are willing to put in some work, this is great Gen Ed to take.
Come listen to music in this class! It's so much fun! But be careful. This is NOT an easy class. Don't expect to do no work and just chill. You need to do quite a lot of work, especially if you have a small background in music.
Don't take this class unless you have a musical background. I took the course because of the high q scores, but they were misleading. The class doesn't require much work other than a 500 word paper every couple weeks. You will need a musical background to be successful in this class.
Music 1 is a fantastic course! Prof. Dolan and the teaching team are excellent, and you walk away with a solid grasp of the general history of western art music as well as how to listen to pieces. The assignments are relatively creative and fun to do.
Extremely informative class where you listen to music and read
Music 1 was a really enriching way to learn about a broad swath of Western music and music history. The class was well-taught, engaging, and enjoyable, and the staff were lovely.
Probably the best way to fulfill your A&I gen ed. Nothing is particularly difficult but there is a steady consistent workload that's a bit more than you probably expect from a gen ed. You learn a lot and it's very enjoyable.
Great course for a curated look at the tradition of Western music. You'll learn a lot of history, and be introduced to a lot of great music as well as interesting modern music.
Boy, am I glad that I had the PRIVILEGE of taking this class. What an amazing course. From gregorian chant to Monteverdi's operas to Stravinsky's Rite of Spring to Reich's minimalist music, this class took me for one hell of a musical ride. Professor Dolan is so incredibly passionate and dedicated to this course, and her lectures, musical selections, and course materials really showcase this. As a senior, I can honestly say this is one of the best courses I have ever taken. You go to lecture excited to learn about the next set of pieces and concepts, and you leave lecture with a new understanding and appreciation for different musical ideas. Take this course, please please please do it. You will not regret it. You'll become well-versed in different musical genres. You'll start recognizing composers and styles in your everyday listening. Who knows, maybe you'll discover that you absolutely love bel canto opera and crazy expressionist atonal music like I did! Thank you, Music 1 teaching team. You guys created a masterpiece of a course for Harvard students. Bravo!
1000 years of listening covers a wide range of material. You are bound to like something.
Fun and easy.
I have no musical background and I had no trouble with the work or the listening at all. Very easy class. This was my favorite class this semester and now I can appreciate and enjoy classical music.
Very well-taught class, engaging lectures, fun assignments.
It's a pretty manageable gen ed, and easy to do well if you listen to the pieces. If you attend lecture you don't need to buy the textbook.
REASONS TO TAKE THIS CLASS: 1) It covers both A&I and Study of the Past. That was my main reason for taking it (plus, half of my blocking group was taking it too)2) The teaching staff is wonderfullllllll3) You literally just get to listen to a ton of music (and study terms, but like, if you don't do what I did and saved all the terms for the day before the exam, you should be fine) 4) If you have a background in music already, it's really easy to understand everything and the listening will probably be easier, too. 5) If you don't have a keen ear for classical music already, then this is a great way to get one. 6) Regardless of your background in music, this will almost definitely teach you a thing or two (or ten) about music history and the development of music through the ages.
This class is really for anyone who wants to learn to listen to music more. Even for people who have had lots of experience playing musical instruments will still learn a lot from this class! Homework is quite manageable, and lectures were always a pleasure to attend.
This class is a wonderful experience in music listening and history; I highly recommend it to anyone with even a SLIGHT interest in music.
Truly did learn how to appreciate classical music
Great class, Professor Dolan is a great lecturer.
This is a great class because of the way it gives you knowledge of and appreciation for music through a historical lens. The assignments really help you become familiar with the course material, and as long as you are dedicated to doing them, you can learn an incredible amount of information from this course.
Very interesting material, and even as someone with a strong musical background, I learned a lot from this course.
great class - no concepts that are "difficult" to understand, but if you are already a musician, many of the topics discussed (& trivia/other random facts) will likely be familiar to you already.
Lectures tend to be boring, and your grade, like most classes, depends on your TF
great class, super great lecturer, great tf group, assignments not bad, didnt spend any time outside of class but still learned a lot. be aware that a ton of people do have music experience coming in though
Easy class to fill GenEd. Listening quizzes can be scary at first, but you honestly can start studying for those the day before and be fine(although I don't recommend it, since it'll be stressful)! Also, make sure you do concert reviews ahead of time, otherwise you'll have to scramble to find a concert and it'll be VERY stressful! Otherwise, a great class, who doesn't like to listen to music for homework?
Awesome class. Made me appreciate classic music, which I didn't at the beginning of the semester. Prof. Dolan is great and her energy is contagious. Could not recommend enough.
this class is a great opportunity to learn about the creative minds of the past without having to have a background in music or playing an instrument.
This class is fantastic! I actively looked forward to lecture, and who can complain about listening to great works of music for homework.
This class is great whether you have a strong background in music or not. If you do have a strong background, this will be an easy course. However, it will equally be fun, and, at least for me, structured my knowledge and filled in gaps very well!
If you're even slightly interested in music history, I recommend you take this course instantly. If not, I recommend you at least shop it.
This class is quite challenging if you do not have a music background. Put in a good amount of time every week so you are not overwhelmed at test time.
By far the best Gen Ed I've taken at Harvard.  Emily is a really engaging lecturer, and you learn a lot without spending a lot of time on the class.  Even if you already fulfilled AIU, I'd still recommend taking this class.
Good course, but lots of work
It is a big Gen Ed, which limits the quality of the class (I think this is because it guarantees a mild interest level among students, which translates into a mildly energized course). Despite that, it is a good course which lays the foundation of Western music history. Assignments are good and well balanced.
If you have any interest in music definitely take this course! It's taught by very passionate, knowledgable, kind people who make you feel at home in an art class.
Your one-stop course for a summary of the music that has filled our ears for ten centuries; Professor Dolan makes that education accessible to anyone -- and a great deal of fun.
Students should expect the class to focus more on music theory than music history (than is advertised)--some background in music is very helpful.
Take it if you want to develop a culture and appreciation of music.
Easy, but a classic BS A&I. Inevitably, you will like some of the music and hate some of the music. Start studying early for listening quizzes, but exams and material are easy. Emily's a good lecturer most of the time, but there were also some boring lectures (cite: the one where the ONLY thing we did was listen to a 45-min symphony). Learned a fair amount.
Great class if you have no prior music history knowledge; good class otherwise. I was in the second group and still got a fair amount out of it. Plus points for Dolan's lectures (she's insightful and often hilarious) and creative assignment options (one of them has you set a movie scene to three different musical selections).
This is a great course to fulfill the AESTHINT gen-ed requirement if you're interested in music! The courseload is really light, but the lectures and kickstarters (pre-lecture readings) are so interesting that you still learn a lot of information. Professor Dolan gives engaging lectures even when the music is a bit difficult. The only aspect of this class I didn't entirely like was the reliance on YouTube clips, especially for ballets and operas: I could have watched those even without taking the class! Also, clips from performances tend to be taken down unless the performance is really old, so most of the opera productions we watched were the uber-traditional, sometimes frumpy ones, which could get boring. One note: even though you technically don't need any musical knowledge to take this course, most of the students are or were classically-trained musicians who want a fun and easy gen-ed. All but two students in my section played an instrument and could read sheet music. If you don't have experience, the technical aspects of the course are a little more difficult, although still very manageable. (Professor Dolan tries not to include any sheet music in lecture.)
Take this class! It is essential to any harvard humanities student's experience! you learn so much, and enjoy yourself while doing it!
Take it, you don't need any musical background. Go to lecture and the rest is so easy and engaging and fun.
Easily one of the best classes I've taken here (and bonus, it counts as a Gen Ed!).
This class is such a great, easy Gen Ed! The time commitment is minimal on a weekly basis, as long as you do the listening.  Also, the grade distribution is very spread out, so you don't have to stress about one test, quiz, assignment determining your grade.  If you have any interest in music or music history, you will definitely enjoy the course.  Emily and the teaching team were all wonderful.  If you're looking for a laid back (yet interesting) gen ed class, this has you covered.  I loved it.
This is a great class. The assignments are very fair and straight forward. The lectures are interesting and often funny. The sections were great too. I learned a lot.
If you have any interest in classical music or musical history, take it!! Emily is an amazing professor and her lectures are fantastic -- some aspects of the course a bit tedious but she cares so much about the students and the material that it is all worth it.
Start studying for the listening quizzes and exams early! There is a lot of things to learn and remember. Also go to the lectures. Besides that, super easy course.
Music 1 is a great way to fulfill AI while taking an enjoyable class. The class is pretty relaxed but there are a lot of assignment which amount to about 10-12 pages of writing in total (but very doable, even for someone who despises writing papers). I'd recommend it!
Professor Dolan is awesome and knows her stuff. This class is run as smoothly as any out there, and you will learn so much if you can dedicate the time to it. If you love "classical" music and yet know nothing about it and one day want to be able to name and discuss the songs you hear all the time, take this class. Definitely not a light work load for a gen-ed but much more informative and a better use of your time. The assignments are spread out a lot so nothing is worth more than 5-20% of your grade, so consistent effort will pay off. Emily wants you to do well.
It's a pretty good gen-ed class. You learn exactly 1000 years of Western music. Although you miss Jazz and other genres. Emily is pretty good at making sure the students understand, and the teaching staff is very helpful. If you have to take A&I, take this.
AMAZING AMAZING I only ever write about classes that were incredible or awful. This was the best class I have taken so far. So reasonable in workload, super interesting material, and I feel like I understand the world and music so much more.
This class is very interesting and will give you an appreciation for classical music and opera as well.
This is a fun class, good gen-ed to fulfill AI.  No musical background is necessary, and it's open to people with varying familiarity with classical music.  Lecture is fun and interesting, and the class isn't too much work (though you do need to spend a non-trivial amount of time listening to the assigned pieces if you want to do well).  Section was basically just listening practice, which was helpful but not that interesting.
This is  really fun course, and I encourage people to take it.
This course can be easy, but if  you take it seriously you will learn a lot about music.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard - Emily really cares about the class and is a creative and fun teacher (the final was the most fun exam I've ever taken). You will leave with an incredible knowledge, and even more importantly, an interest in western music through the centuries that I really hope I will carry with me for the rest of my life. If every course could be like this at Harvard I would learn so much more here!!!
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!
I loved this class! It was something I could look forward to every week as a non-stressful escape into some fascinating aspect of musical history. Professor Dolan puts a ton of thought into her lectures and slideshows, and the result are classes that are both informative and genuinely enjoyable.
Great class!! If you have a music background (play instrument, can read music) and are looking to fill in that final slot in your schedule, this is the one. Music 1 is more of a historical class, but also involves many listening exercises and challenges throughout. If you go to lectures, you essentially get an A since the majority of the learning happens there. The assignments are relatively easy and very creative. Overall, definitely a class worth taking if you're trying to lighten up your schedule.
This was a really great introduction to music. You don't need any background in music to do well, and you'll learn a lot of great fun facts about music. So if nothing else, you'll be about 100x better at Trivial Pursuit than you were before.
Generally, this course is part music appreciation, part music history, and part music theory. These three parts are blended together so seamlessly that you will enjoy the class whether your interest lies in any one of these areas. It is the kind of outstanding class that will be interesting and valuable to expert musicians and musical novices alike. You could take only this class and know a lot about music.
Great class. Emily Dolan is a great lecturer and the material is interesting. Be aware that the class is very easy (I don't think I had to think deeply about anything all semester) so it can be good as a gened but not always super interesting.
Great class, perfect for all types of learners
Not a gut class, but still one that is relatively relaxing.  You still feel like you learn a lot in it. It's definitely reinforced my knowledge of classical music.
This course is phenomenal; it teaches you so much for the amount of time it asks of you, the resources are amazing, and Professor Dolan and all the TFs are great at explaining everything.
If you have very little to no experience with music, you should probably avoid this class. You dive straight into unfamiliar music and are expected to be able to differentiate every piece you listen to. If you do take it, make sure you seek out your TF for a lit of help early in the semester.
I would recommend taking this class only if you are actually interested in classical music. If not, you can do well but the midterm and final will take a lot of time to study for.
There is no doubt that the material is extremely interesting. I have absolutely no music background and was so interested in all the course material. However, the course is very time consuming. You have to keep up regularly because it will be a nightmare to learn it all for the midterm/final if you don't. Take it if you have the time; but if you don't the class will be very difficult.
This class is great if you want a history of Western music. While it hits on many main composers and gives you a good feel for the general history of music and musical development, there are some important/famous composers that the class does not touch on... if you are a music snob, you are likely to be disappointed. BUT if you are a musician who feels like they would like to know more about where the music you play comes from and how music developed, this is definitely a great class! It is fun, fairly laid back... You can do a lot of work for the class, or not so much at all --depending on what you want to get out of it. If you have no experience with music, definitely take this class. If you are looking to fulfill a gen ed definitely take this class. It is such an important skill to be able to appreciate music, and this class will help you learn how to do so. It is also a great way to exercise your brain in a different way than in your other classes (a big component of the class is listening to music).
This class is noteworthy
This class is hands down one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. You examine the Western musical tradition and pay specific attention to close listening. The assignments are interesting, the lectures are engaging, and the teaching staff is helpful. I highly recommend taking this class for your AI!
If you are even remotely interested in music, take this course.  It covers a lot of music history and shows you many important musical works throughout the last 1,000 years.  The midterm and exam were very straightforward and easy to do well on if you put the time in.  There's essentially no homework besides the listening portfolios, which are every other week.  If you're looking for an easy, painless gen-ed, take this course.
Talk to your TF about what is lacking on your assignments, as they can be rather fastidious, and subjective might I add, on assignments.
This class is an amazing introduction to thinking critically about music--Professor Dolan is a truly exceptional educator and you'll look forward to lecture!
Good course to learn about the history of music and learn how to listen to a piece properly. Interesting and fun. The "hardest" part might be to think like a musician for some of the writing prompts, which can be daunting for someone without any background in music. Not too much to do every week, great for an elective/gen ed.
This class is wonderful! Although the memorization is frustrating, you do gain a greater understanding for the history of music. This class has made me appreciate music so much more. You won't regret this!
Music 1 was an excellent course! I took it as an elective because I wanted a fun course to break up a course load of problem sets and essays. Studying was almost fun because you just had to listen to music on repeat. Prof. Dolan was very helpful and always willing to meet with students.
Class is great, just be aware of how much memorization of dates and names there is.
The class is not too much workload, but great payoff in material learned about the history of western music.
This class was very enjoyable. I learned very much throughout the semester and was exposed to music I had never heard before. The assignments are a bit time intensive, but there isn't an abundant number of them. The concert review is enjoyable. Attending lecture really helped because the lecture notes were pretty sparse and a lot of information was just said out loud. I would also read the book because it complements/supplements the material learned in lecture, and gives you more information than is stated in lecture at times.
Really easy just go to the lectures and you're good lol
This is a very interesting course that is just challenging enough to make you think about music in a new way. No music background is necessary, and even if you do, it revolutionizes the way you hear it.
Great class! It really helps you listen deeper, and better appreciate music. I also especially like the way this class tied together the different material, it feels more like a coherent narrative than a jumble of different styles.
This class is very interesting but more challenging than your average gen ed.
This course is amazing! I came in with a slight appreciation for music, but am leaving with a deep awareness and appreciation of the story of music and how it affects and changes the world as we experience it today.
I loved this class; seriously incredibly for music-lovers and music-ignoramuses like myself. I learned so much about Western high art music, and beautiful musical pieces throughout human history. Incredible teaching staff, not difficult, and totally fun/fascinating!
This was a great class! Make sure you go to lecture because they are very interesting and the guest performances are great. Sections are also very useful and make sure you go to office hours to clarify things!
Music 1 is a fantastic class that teaches you a lot while letting you relax and enjoy the material.
This course is so enjoyable. I feel like it enriched me as a human being able to enjoy art, not just as a scholar. I've done a lot of choir and piano and can read music, but this course didn't feel too easy. Great for musicians and non-musicians alike!
Be careful. If you are in the minority if students who did not play an instrument previously, you will find yourself at a disadvantage. Otherwise the course is excellent.
The Platonic ideal of a class in college. I usually write novels for this question, but my advice can be summed up as: take this class, even if you've already fulfilled A&I. Everything is super chill and fun, you get to listen to some of the greatest pieces of music ever written, and you end up learning a lot (even if you think you know classical music). Highly, highly recommend.
