This is a fantastic class, very fun and extremely engaging!
kinda cool, but very focused on sonatas in comparison to 51 a and b which are more comprehensive
If you have the background in theory from 51a and have a true passion for music, this class is for you, particularly if you are a musician. Andy and Dan are so much fun, the class size is small so it's even more engaging, and you really get a good feel for sonata form.
This is a wonderful course that is wonderfully taught. I have definitely gained a greater appreciation for classical form and harmony.
It can seem a little daunting, but Dan and Andy are really great and make the material fun. I also like this music, so I enjoyed it a lot!
If you don't have a strong background in classical music, specifically sonatas, you might want to pause before taking this class. We cover a lot of Haydn, Beethoven, and Mozart. Otherwise, I really enjoyed this class and would recommend this course to anyone interested in classical music theory and form. We explore composition as well.
If you want to improve as a musician in the western classical style this class is for you.  I wouldn't say this class was  a blast but I am so glad I took it because through my struggles with it, I grew so much as a musician which I am really thankful for.
An amazing class in classical theory and sonata form.
This class, as mentioned, is about sonata form. If you are not interested in this, then the class is probably not for you. It was a fun and holistic course though. I wish it would go more in depth on the form though and focus less on composition. I feel like that would make me feel more adept at analyzing different examples.
As somewhat of an academic renegade who seeks to decentralize the western classical tradition in my own curriculum, this course rubbed against me in many ways. I guess I'm a little skeptical of the importance of sonata form (especially only in the form of string quartets and keyboard music) in that it takes up a whole course. Alas, it's required of me and it was rewarding in several respects. Definitely a good space for the theory buffs.
This class isn't truly that difficult, but with all of its components, it easily takes up as much time as an intensive language course that would count as two credits. You need to be willing to take the time and put in the work if you're going to be satisfied with your final project, which is the culmination of the semester. I would recommend meeting with your TF or professor outside of class, just to hear what they have to say  it's a great way to get critiqued on your work, even if you think you're doing a good job.
I loved this class, definitely one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Lectures and sections were really fun and informative, and the work was enjoyable. It was really cool to go in depth in a particular style, and writing our final sonata composition felt like quite an achievement. Andy and the TFs are wonderful, and really make the experience in this class a fantastic one.
The class was great with Andy. Unfortunately, he'll never teach it again, so I can't say what the course will be like in future years. Anyway, most people who take this course are required to take it for their concentration, so what I say here will likely have no impact on whether or not people enroll.
Take this course if you would like a deeper understanding of Classical music. But be careful, this course is very difficult and much more knowledge than you think is required.
It's awesome! Despite its specificity (focus on the sonata), you'll learn more than you think you will and will appreciate it.
This strong recommendation is largely based on the enthusiasm and effort of this year's teaching staff.
come curious and ready to learn. Andy is a great professor and wants to base the class of the students
At least with Andy teaching it you just go over examples in class and a general structures of different forms. Also a lot of confusing conversations. Andy is great as a teacher in every other way though in that he cares and you can tell. But still. Definitely do not take unless you have to, and in that case I'll say that it's just an overview of classical music forms and you'll learn some words that make you sound like an informed classical musician that don't really apply to the actual experience of listening to music (even classical) a lot of the time. It's confusing and not horrible but annoying and just sad in comparison to Prof. Beaudoin's awesome theory courses (51a, 51b, and so I've heard, 150b)!
Only take this class if (1) you have to satisfy your music concentration requirements or (2) you are deeply interested in analyzing the piano and string quartet sonatas of Beethoven, Mozart, and Haydn. This course is not a comprehensive survey course on the Classical style as suggested in the course description.
There's a great sense of continuity from 51a/51b into 150a. It's a chance to take all the details of harmonic analysis and apply them in figuring out a piece in a more general sense. Be prepared in taking a hit to your grades, though, because it's easy to lose points on assignments in this class.
You have to take this class as a prerequisite for many other classes, so take it. However, don't expect anything really fun or mindblowing.
You will get from this what you put into it. Don't be afraid to ask questions.
Take the course if you are serious about learning the material and think it would help with your musicianship. Otherwise, expect the 2 hour lectures to be quite dry and for it to not directly help unless you put a lot of thought into it.
Rewarding in the end, even though it has its slow patches. Prepare to do a lot of model composition.
This class, with Andy, Dan, and Frederick teaching, was absolutely reasonable in terms of workload, and well-designed in terms of assignments, keyboard assignments, etc. The teaching staff were so absolutely dedicated and enthusiastic; I was so grateful to have taken it with these teachers, all with their own unique perspective on classical style and form.
It's a good class overall, and if you're interested in musical form and how composers have over centuries developed these structures and broken them down, then it's a really fascinating class. The lectures can be rather dull, admittedly, although any 2 hour class is tough to get through. I've never had any 2-hour lecture where I have left feeling that everything in that lecture couldn't have been accomplished in 90 or even 60 minutes. The lectures can also be rather unfocused, and I feel that a lot more material could be covered in this course if attempted. For example, we don't talk about the trio in minuet and trio form, the scherzo form, the concerto form (!); more could be said about late Beethoven or the precursors to Haydn and Mozart (i.e. Handel, Telemann). But hey, if you're reading this, you probably have to take the course one way or another, so I'll just say that it's all about what you put into it. The material can be fascinating if you spend some time with it and don't just se each Haydn symphony the same as the last one.
Incredibly boring/frustrating lectures because Suzy has a bizarre/ineffective method of lecturing where she stands there and asks absurdly obvious or absurdly not-obvious leading questions instead of just telling information in an engaging way (see: Beaudoin).  Nearly every lecture is a pain.  But it's easy after 51a.
If you get a good section, this class would be amazing since you can meet very nice music concentrator (or secondary) people and TF!
Music 150a got me hooked on Classical form even in its rare dull moments. Prof. Clark is unassuming, earnest, and charismatic, drawing from her own ideas and presenting often enthralling lectures. The teaching staff was top-notch and approachable. Keyboard lessons, in addition to section, are a welcome complement, and both are much improved from 51.
It's a really great course, and I don't just say that to get you excited because it's a requirement. I am not originally an instrumentalist and am only familiar with Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven through their piano and vocal works, but this class gave me an insight into a world of music and musical form I never spent much time getting to know. The workload is manageable, although the projects are involved, so long as you work ahead. Never feel shy to ask questions, the teaching staff is amazing and will be there to help you through anything, every step of the way.
Take this course if you want to have greater understanding of Mozart, Haydn, and (a bit of) Beethoven. If you don't like their style of music, you will abhor this course. It is really informative though and you become a better musician after taking it.
The best part of this course is the final project--you make a sonata form movement for piano or string quartet.  150a is a lot of work, but the payoff at the end is fantastic.  Be ready to spend a significant chunk of time working just to keep up with the course, though--it's very easy to fall behind, because of the wide range of material the course covers.
If you have to take it, take it. If not, don't. Professor Rehding means well, but is not at all engaging. Keyboard is useful, but a lot of work if you want to get something out of it. Assignments are a pain. It is cool to write a final composition though.
Expect to put in a significant amount of work, but to learn a skill you will never forget.
This course is listed as Music Theory II, but it is not a meaningful continuation of Music 51. Do not take this class unless you are already dead set upon being a music major. It is an ENTIRE semester on sonata form. An entire semester on something that could essentially be around thirty-two measures. This is not the music of Mozart, Haydn, and Beethoven. This is How to Write a Sonata. For those of you who took Music 51 and were frustrated that it was simply a repeat of AP Music Theory and are hoping for something more interesting, do not take this class. For those of you who want to be musicians, don't take this class. For those of you who are hobbyists and enjoy learning about music, don't take this class. For those of you who  enjoy sonatas and wish to continue to do so, don't take this class. The best things going for it are that the professor and the TF are both really nice.
A great classProfessor Rehding is an excellent teacher, and both he and the assigned Caplin textbook do a fantastic job of explaining the components of the classical style. If you loved Music 51, absolutely take this course. Also, there is such a rewarding feeling at the end of this course when you get to hear your string quartet movement (or piano sonata) performed.
This course is much different from Music 51. There's a lot of emphasis on the final composition, more so than in 51.
The title "Theory II" is misleading -- it's a class about composing classical music.
Take it! You'll come out of it knowing how to think and write like Mozart.
Do not take this class if you just want a fun and easy music elective class.  If the minuet and trio do not yet suck out your life, then the sonata at the end will.  It is a hard course and meant for music concentrators for a reason.
As someone who had always hoped to take a course entirely dedicated to the Classical style, this class certainly met my expectations. The course is entirely focused upon exemplary composition, but given that the Classical style is so carefully codified, it is not hard to passably imitate Mozart, Haydn, etc. That said, you are held to the standards of these greats, and it is virtually unheard of to receive a perfect grade on any assignment. If you are willing to accept this fact, you will walk away from the course with a solid knowledge of Classical form, as well as several appreciably long compositions to your name.
Only take this class if you have a strong background in both composition and the classical style. If you haven't done much composition, then you will be very, very frustrated. This class studies models from Mozart and Haydn extensively, but deals very little with the techniques and methods behind composition.
Take it and enjoy
This was basically a good class.  Professor Clark was straightforward and the TFs were awesome.  The material could get a little pedantic at times but in the end it was beneficial because it gave you a good filter with which to tell the good from the bad in the music of that time.  Obviously only consider this as a music secondary/concentrator or you'll be lost.
Take it if you want to learn theory of the late 18th century. It's not exactly the second year of music theory you'd think 150 would be following 51.
This class is required for concentrators, joint concentrators, and Harvard/NEC people. Otherwise, I really don't understand why you're taking it. Professor Clark and the teaching staff give good lectures and sections, but the Caplin book is AWFUL. It is dogmatic, frustrating, and excessively pedantic. It makes up rules to classify the making of rules about the process of making rules to give a better idea of how to make rules. There is occasional musical notation interspersed in this, but I have yet to comprehend how it related. The point is this; the class takes an entire semester trying to cram Mozart and Haydn into little boxes that they just don't fit in. Everything needs to be neat and tidy in a way that it isn't in real life. Learning basic phrase structure, sonata form, and minuet and trio form in depth is, of course, important, but this class stomps on any kind of creativity or thinking outside the box. Basically: save yourself from the headaches this class will give you, and just read Charles Rosen's book on Sonata form.
Be prepared to not get a lot of instruction on how to tackle the composition assignments. This course, while a necessary stepping stone in the music department, should be taken with caution. It is quite difficult and the TF taught sections are not interesting or helpful.
Awesome music theory class, but if you're taking it... I hope you like Mozart.
The course does an excellent job in discussing the formal and harmonic principles, which contribute to our knowledge of a classical style. No formal or harmonic anomaly in the repertory is left unaccounted for and the rigorous use of theoretical frameworks to contextualize discussions of the music is illuminating.However, the tone of the class is to add these principles to what is an already assumed working knowledge of the classical repertory, without which it is very difficult to succeed in the class.
Class assignments were mostly composition and analysis. Although there was no singing or instrument playing in class, the course was still fun and had a pretty lively environment. This class continues the line of fun, educational music classes, but with more emphasis on the educational component. Listening to Haydn and Mozart will help assignments in this class come more easily.
This class sucks.  If you have to take it, keep your head down and don't expect anything creative you do to be anything but punished.
You will become very familiar with Mozart and Haydn.
Very easy, fairly boring class for the most part, though there are interesting points throughout.  Sections with David, however, were excellent.  Try to get him.
It is significantly better than Music 51. As someone who is not a composer at all, there is definitely a lot of composition involved but you improve a lot because of it. And you come away with a really good knowledge of sonata form, and the classical style in general.
Although the class is difficult and requires a lot of work, I felt that it greatly improved my understanding and appreciation of music.  After completing the course, I enjoy music even more than I already did, and I find that I understand a piece better when hearing it for the first time.
This class rocks! The professor was engaging and clear, and he really generated enthusiasm for the subject matter. However, if you don't like composing, then you won't like this class.
This is an extremely hard course. Probably the hardest I have taken. It is not the tests that are hard, but the amount of work. If you want to do well on the day to day homework, you need to put in an incredible amount of time into them. If you are fine with B work, the average 1 to 2 hours a night is fine. Also, the piano section is really hard.
If you're interested in composing in the Classical style and do it right, this is a great chance. Rehding is a really nice and entertaining professor and does his best to explain well something that can't ever be explained in its entirety. If you've taken music 51, this class is much better and more painless.
If you love music/theory, then take this class!  I can into it as a non-concentrator who loves studying music, and I came out a quasi-composer with a deep connection to the repertoire.  It is a lot of work, and sometime you will feel like you can't do anything right, but you will come out of this class a better musician.  The class is set-up for you to succeed, you just have to be pro-active, seek help and have a great outlook!
This is a way to become conscious of how classical music is put together, even if you're really familiar with it. Writing a sonata gave me a new appreciation for Mozart.
Music 150 is challenging, but the satisfaction of writing a sonata movement is worth the effort.  It will expand your musical abilities and perspective on classical music.
If you're interested in understanding classical form better, it's a great class.  If not, it might be a bit in-depth.  Great teaching staff.
Every professor teaches this course their own way, but I've never heard a bad thing about this course. The best way to learn the sonata form is to write a piece with it.
This is a great course, and it lets you really dig into the inner workings of the Classical Viennese style, starting with small phrases and ending with the composition of a sonata for string quartet or piano. It is great for people interested in anything from the details of the theory behind analyzing classical music and those who want to write or perform music alike.
