this class owns! dr henderson is the man... super funny, really knowledgable, nice guy. the Tf's are all crazily talented musically and it's a great resource to be able to learn from them. the assignments are awesome - you get to compose your own pieces and they get performed and recorded by a legit jazz band.
This is a gem of a course at Harvard. The class has such a relaxed feeling, and develops a sense of community, that I think is due to the quality of the professor and the TFs. I looked forward to every lecture, and the opportunity to have two original pieces performed is one of the academic highlights of my time at the college.
You will have so much fun in this class!!! Prof Henderson is both knowledgeable and funny, a wonderful personality to lead our class. The chance to make recordings of the student compositions for the midterm and final exam is an extraordinary learning opportunity. Whatever level of experience in jazz you have, you can't fail to learn from this class and its wonderful teaching staff.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It is by far the best course I've taken in my four years at Harvard. Dr. Henderson is engaging, dynamic, and will make you so excited about jazz harmony in general. For each lecture, Dr. Henderson picks a topic of jazz harmony and provides an interactive lecture with examples spanning different genres that demonstrate the specific concept. It is SUCH a blast getting to listen to Stevie Wonder, Disney Soundtracks, and the like for credit! The teaching fellows are also absolutely brilliant and only enhance the experience. And you get to have your midterm/final compositions recorded by professional jazz musicians! Such a phenomenal course, if I could take it five times over I would.
Dr. Henderson is one of the most knowledgeable, experienced, and hilarious people you'll ever have the privilege of meeting. Every lecture is a joy.
Whether you love jazz or not, you definitely won't regret taking this class. Professor Henderson and the TFs are awesome and passionate; they do a great job explaining the main concepts of the course and linking them to examples so you can really grasp and feel jazz harmony instead of simply having to memorize harmonic/theoretical concepts. The midterm/final projects are enjoyable to work on (how many other classes can you say that for?), and there's no greater feeling than getting to hear your composed music performed live in class by a professional jazz band. Regardless of musical background (though knowing basic music theory is a must), everyone should take this class at some point in their time at Harvard.
This course is absolutely fantastic. It is without a doubt the coolest/best/most rewarding course I have taken at Harvard. You learn SO much about jazz music, harmony, and technique, and have a blast while doing so!
Jazz 153 was one of the most enjoyable courses I have ever taken. This course expanded my idea of what is possible in music seemingly every week. It was also a wonderful way to start the morning and introduced me to a lot of incredible music. Dr. Henderson and TFs are just wonderful--they are passionate and bring joy to their work every day. I had never composed music before in my life, but I'm walking away with an ability to arrange and write my own jazz. The workload is very reasonable too.
This is an excellent class and literally everyone should take it. It's incredible how much you can learn from such a casual-feeling class--each meeting feels like a conversation. It was really the highlight of every week. The TFs and Professor Henderson were all incredible; I can't recommend it more highly. The projects were also awesome opportunities to apply your knowledge and be blown away by your classmates' pieces.
This class is amazing. You learn about harmony and jazz music from an incredibly talented and enthusiastic lecturer and teaching fellows, and get two chances to have your own compositions recorded by professional jazz musicians. Each day we listen to lots of neat music. It's really worth it to put time into the assignments and the compositions and get help from the staff because there's so much to learn from them. Also Daniel Henderson is really funny, and Omar Thomas is generally a boss.
Dr. Henderson is definitely a performer at heart, but his compositions are also astonishing. Take advantage of office hours and ask questions! His knowledge of jazz is endless, and using his suggestions for your pieces makes them sound professionally written. Have fun in this class but take the assignments seriously, and take note of concepts/phrases you like throughout the semester so it's easier to put your projects together.
This class is one of those hidden gems in Harvard that you can only dream of finding during your short four years here. But once you do, the search was worth it and your entire semester is lit up from beginning to end. Dr. Henderson=simply dazzling, incredibly knowledgeable, the love of my life. Evan=makes you rethink your idea of a prodigy, his comments are pure gold. Omar=beautiful, intelligent, and actually someone super famous, though you'd never know since he's wonderfully humble. Nick=dashing, witty, and has the bluest eyes that you will get lost in; also he will sit down with you for two hours straight to help you with your arrangement. This was my favorite class at Harvard. The midterms are so exciting. Dr. Henderson brings in wickedly talented instrumentalists to have your piece played. You feel so fortunate by the immense talent you are surrounded by--peers and instructors alike. You learn so much. Just take this class already. You will fall in love.
This class is an amazing introduction to the world of jazz composing and to jazz music in general. The projects, though slightly challenging to put together, are extremely rewarding as you walk away with two extremely high-quality recordings of your own music being played by professional musicians (plus watching them work during the recording sessions is also super cool). If you have even the slightest interest in this subject and if Professor Henderson and his TF team are still teaching it, DEFINITELY take this course!
If you know a little bit of theory and want to explore jazz in the most painless and enjoyable way possible, take this class!!! Dr. Henderson is absolutely the best prof here. Such a nice person and brilliant person
Professor Henderson's enthusiasm and love for music is contagious. Definitely take this class. (Also he brings homemade tomatoes that are incredible).
Dr. Henderson is a gem of a professor.  He is the type of person who makes you want to come to class every day.  His lectures are clear, concise, and will leave you grinning.  Besides, who doesn't like a class where you get to listen to jazz for an hour and a half?
This class will blow your mind with knowledge. Professor Henderson has digested decades and decades of jazz harmony knowledge and research and condensed it into this gem of a course. Not only do you learn about all of the major harmonic concepts in jazz, Dr. Henderson also places each one in its own historical context.
Awesome course for people who need an introduction to or need to be strengthen in the jazz harmonic idiom. The staff is absolutely incredible and learning from them and having your songs recorded is so much fun!!
This course is completely unlike any course I've taken at Harvard and I enjoyed every minute of it. From Dr. Henderson's very entertaining lectures to the enthusiastic TFs, this course was both laid back and surprisingly informative. What really made this course great, though, was the final project, in which we wrote for an eight person jazz ensemble before a recording session with professional musicians. While the thought of composing a jazz piece for such a large ensemble was daunting, hearing my piece performed by such a talented ensemble was one of the most rewarding experiences I've had in any class at Harvard.
This is an excellent class. Hopefully Dan Henderson is still teaching it.
Best. Class. EVER. I'm a senior and hands down I've never taken a better course at Harvard. The material you learn in the class has immediate applicability, increases your knowledge of harmony, and transforms the way to listen to music. After taking this class, you will appreciate harmony more.
A lot of students come into Harvard with classical music experience, but not much else; as one of those students, who came in with little to no background, the entire process of studying jazz and composing jazz has been mind-blowing. What I took away most from this class was a new, very visceral, way of feeling and analyzing chords when listening to music. In turn, that ability to feel music really guides decisions you make when composing (moods to convey, etc.). It's really weird to say that I can now feel a tritone substitution or maj9#11 chord in my body when someone play's it, but trust me, it's one of those things that you never really forget once you've learned it.This is by far, one of the best classes I have taken here at Harvard. The teaching fellows and lecturer are incredible, sections and lectures are phenomenally gripping, and the assignments are extremely rewarding, especially since you get to hear your compositions played by live professional musicians (and you get a professional recording too). I highly recommend this to ANYONE who loves music, regardless of whether you believe you like jazz or not (you will by the end of this class, and really, jazz sort of gobbles up inspiration from every other genre).  You will not regret it.
I would definitely recommend this taking this course if you are at all interested in jazz. Please note that some background in music theory/piano will be very helpful.
It is not a difficult class per se but you leave with an exceptional broadening of your musical horizons. Do it.
If you're on the fence about taking this class (and you have the requisite musical experience), just take it. Regardless of your experience with jazz itself, you will learn quite a bit about (and perhaps find a love for) the genre and the way music itself works. You will also be extremely hard-pressed to find another venue that will allow you to compose music and have it recorded by professional musicians and mixed by a professional music technician.
An amazing course, you will not regret it. Only at Harvard can you compose two works in lieu of a midterm/final exam, and then have them performed by professional musicians at an extremely high level...seriously, I have been composing before, and have gotten my pieces performed by many groups, but these was probably the best performance of my pieces I have ever gotten, especially my midterm project. Jazz harmony is such an exciting musical subject that has managed to penetrate all forms of American music (and world music), and the course teaches it very well (albeit a bit slowly for more advanced musicians), and, unlike other courses in the music department, does not detract from your appreciation of the music itself.
Awesome class. Take it if you're interested in jazz, or if you've never even been exposed to it before. No one better to cultivate your interest than Prof. Henderson and the awesome TFs.
This class is hands down the best class I have taken at Harvard. Ever. The teaching staff is incredibly talented, and so are the people who take this course -- you will get to meet a TON of really talented musicians and also get the chance to hear your midterm and final piece played by professional musicians. I mean, I can't stress how incredible of an experience that is, and how rarely you will get to hear this kind of thing... Dan Henderson is an incredible man. He is personable, makes an effort to get to know every student, and really seems to understand a ton about jazz. Omar and Nick are both fabulous composers and musicians, and it was awesome to hear them just talk about their experiences and their work in class. Plus, you don't get to meet Berklee musicians all too often when you're at Harvard, so this is a great chance to do so, especially because of Harvard's lacking jazz department.I haven't taken Jazz Improv yet, but I thoroughly plan to, and I know many of my peers do as well. I couldn't recommend this class more highly for anybody who is relatively interested in composition, jazz, or music (with the prerequisite knowledge.)
Wonderful, exciting, fun course about Jazz theory. Energetic teaching staff, sensible assignments, and a new way of listening to music you may or may not have listened to before. Be sure to have basic music theory knowledge before enrolling.
This course is one of the most rewarding courses I have ever taken. You will be amazed with how your recordings turn out, even if you have no composition experience. The instructors are enthusiastic and classes are interesting. You should be familiar with music notation and basic chord notation. The course's assurance that no jazz experience is needed is somewhat misleading. You should also enjoy listening to jazz music, and very basic theoretical knowledge can make this course much easier. Also, it helps to have some piano experience, although it is unnecessary with the use of apps such as iRealb.
Great class, highly recommended.
This class is a lot of fun for jazz lovers and those who want to get into jazz.  Dr. Henderson and the TFs are a lot of fun, and the concepts are taught in depth with lots of musical examples in class and section.  The projects are an awesome opportunity to compose and hear your work performed by live musicians.  Great class!
great class! You will learn awesome music theory techniques that can make any non-jazz song a jazz song.
Take.
DEFINITELY TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!!!! Professor Henderson is inspiring, funny, knows his stuff like no other and you will walk out of this class with concrete skills and two awesome songs that you'll want to keep forever. This class takes a decent amount of work but mostly it's about what you want to put into your work and what you want to get out of it. Even if it doesn't fill a gen-ed (which it didn't for me), definitely take this class!
If you don't have a strong background in music theory, I would strongly consider getting one before taking this class. Wonderful class, but knowledge of chord structures and progressions is immensely helpful to begin with.
It's pretty relaxed, and the assignments are fun. I was pretty proud of my final project, but when I really thought about it, I didn't necessarily learn a lot of drastically new material by the end of the class. I guess that's the beauty of this class: without drowning you in new concepts, it  polishes your existing knowledge and gives you the "excuse" to really explore your personal musicality.
This course was the highlight of this semester. Dr. Henderson and TFs are extremely accessible and friendly, and the songs we listened to in class were really nice and I felt like being in a jazz bar at 10am in the morning. Midterm and final projects were AMAZING, since you can hear how your compositions are played by professionals.
If you feel like many of the music course offerings are too dry - i.e., focus on theory that doesn't show up so much in music today or on the historical rather than the aesthetic aspects of music, you should definitely take this class.  The faculty are not only amazing teachers, but they are accomplished musicians.  The assignments are unparalleled in that they will actually force to think creatively and compose pieces that you love.  And the resources of this class make it a one-of-a-kind experience you can't get anywhere else.  Take this class before it gets so big that the experience changes.
This is an awesome class. For the midterm and final projects you write a jazz piece and the course brings in professional musicians and a sound engineer to play your pieces and have it recorded. Definitely have at least some music background, preferably in playing jazz, if you take this class. There's not much work week to week but the midterm and final compositions do take a lot of time. If you're at all interested in jazz though, take this class!
This is a really special class where you get to come out with 2 recordings of your own work. I learned a lot about composition and jazz and also theory in general, but I didn't have a strong theoretical background before taking this class. I'd say having an ear for what sounds good is probably one of the most useful things for getting the most out of this class.
Jazz Harmony is a wonderful, engaging class. It presents a great opportunity for students of all musical backgrounds to try out something new or see music in a different light.
If you don't like jazz, this course will make you appreciate it at an unprecedented level. If you already like jazz, this course will make you like it even more. That being said, like any other course, you only get out of this course what you put into it. If you work hard on the weekly assignments, pay attention in class, and remain an active listener outside of class, this course will prove to be magical.
Taking it with Chem 17 is a bit tough, because the final composition is due the day of the third Chem midterm (both the week after Thanksgiving break). This resulted in me skipping classes and getting angry emails from professors. So please avoid repeating my mistakes and plan ahead. Also, I found that the band has a tougher time playing ballads than swing or funk songs, so I'd shy away from composing ballads from the projects.Though many of the other Q evaluations will say that this course is very easy, keep in mind that you will still have to work very, very hard.
One of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. It was so enjoyable to have professionals come in and play our compositions- a rare opportunity to actually see (and hear) your academic work come to life.
This is by far the greatest class I've taken. My understanding of jazz in all areas (not just harmony) has increased tremendously. If you love music and have always wanted to understand jazz, take this class.
amazing class, amazing teachers, great jazz composition practice
This class got really popular this year since it could be taken for gen. ed credit (I think). With such a large class some of the teaching was stretched thin, but they still did a great job. If you are at all interested in jazz and have some basic music theory skills/background, this class will give you everything you want and more. You won't believe the progress you make from start to finish. These guys really know what they're doing, both in terms of music AND teaching.
This class is truly one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Very fun class, Prof Henderson is wonderful.  The midterm and the final project involved writing an original composition/arrangement to be performed and recorded by real live jazz musicians.  Much easier if you already know your way around jazz, but a great time regardless.  The assignments can sometimes eat as much time as you have to throw at them.
This has been my favorite class at Harvard. It is one of the rare courses that is stress-free but you still learn a ton. Dr. Henderson and the TFs create a really relaxed atmosphere in the class which I think is very conducive to learning Jazz. I was excited to wake up in the morning and go to this class! The pace is a bit slow because I feel like there is so much more to learn about Jazz harmony and composition. I wish this class had a sequel! The composition assignments were very fun and you get to have your compositions played by professional musicians!
one of the most fun classes you will take at harvard!
Great primer to introductory jazz harmony. Fun, quirky, and cool, Henderson inspires groove in his students with excellent musical examples and composition projects in which professional musicians record your work with a high-end sound engineer -- amazing!
If you want a fun, hands-on, engaging music class where you actually write music your friends can sing to, this is the class to take! The teaching class is inspirational and so full of passion, the projects are an opportunity to compose your heart out, and if the more you put into the class the more you'll get out. It also isn't much work (except the work to make your project as good as you want!) Only downside is that it's rather unstructured, so if you're new to composing it can be hard to pick everything up.This is the only class I've seen where students loved the staff so much they asked for autographs and photos at the end.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard so far! The teaching staff is fabulous, the course material very interesting, and to hear your own composition played by professional jazz musicians is simply amazing! I only wish we had more time!
This class is absolutely wonderful if you have a love for jazz. You literally come into class, listen to some amazing music, and pick out concepts and themes from those songs to eventually use in compositions of your own. You compose two songs and come away with two tangible high-quality recordings of your own work. I came into this with no music theory background, so I will say that you have to work harder if that's the case for you as well. But it's definitely worth it!
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, primarily because Prof. Henderson is such an incredible teacher. I left every class happier than when I walked in. The material is interesting and exciting, and much more practical to the average person than classical theory. You'll never listen to music the same way again.
Dr. Henderson is a funny, amiable guy, with a great instinct for teaching. I highly recommend him as a teacher. The class's strength is its basis in compositionit was great being able to hear my work performed by talented jazz musicians (as well as the work of others). Both TFs are talented jazz composers and cool guys. The "theory" aspect of the class is very basicand as someone who has concentrated time to music theory, most of the material we learned I had already seen in other classes. If you're interested in exposing yourself to more jazz, and venturing into composing your own jazz, this class is a great choice (and the workload is entirely manageable).
If you're willing to sit through an hour and a half of Professor Henderson's shenanigans a week, the course is worth it. You learn some cool stuff.
Take this class. Henderson is hilarious and amazing, the material is fun and exciting, and your midterm and final projects get played by professional jazz musicians and professionally recorded. Take this class.
This class was fantastic! It's a definite departure from typical classical music theory. You'll learn so much and you'll so proud of the music you compose. The staff is also just amazing; super accessible and experienced.
One of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. A great professor and a great teaching staffthey really know how  to effectively present the concepts of jazz harmony in a fun way. I learned so much in this class, and I enjoyed it so much that I want to keep writing jazz songs.
This class is seriously AMAZING. Dr. Henderson, Nick, and Omar are literally some of the most amazing teachers I have ever had in my life. They are super encouraging, fun, and engaging. I was proud of the work I produced (amazing, considering I had previously not understood jazz at all). Going to class is like going to private jazz concerts!
TAKE THIS. DO IT.
If you are looking for a fun, easy music elective but do not have a strong musical background do not take this course. That said, if you already know which notes comprise an Fmaj9 chord or what a secondary dominant is, then you will breeze through this. I found this course to simply touch upon a variety of topics that take a long time to actually learn, so the people who already knew them just sailed right through. It was tough for me because I did not know off the top of my head what the 11 is in Bb... so I had to figure out how to learn all this. The midterm and final assignments (making a composition for a live jazz band) were fun, but really stressful for the less experienced because the bar is set really high by very talented students. As an elective, I just could not justify putting in all the work it would require to catch up to them.
Take advantage of the great tools that you are provided with. The class was very enlightening, and gave me much more appreciation for the music that I already loved.
If you want to learn about jazz harmony, I'm pretty sure this is the only course that teaches it. So take it. Jazz will expand your harmonic pallete for composition.
This really isn't for jazz musicians, but it is a good way to get a music requirement out of the way.
It is an amazing course to explore your music interest.
You will learn all about harmony in jazz and understand what makes jazz so special.
Phenomenal course. One of the best teaching staffs I've seen. Henderson is a charismatic, engaging lecturer who will really drill into you an understanding and love for jazz. Highly recommended for all those interested in music.
This class gives you a whole new perspective of not just jazz, but music in general.  You learn to appreciate the harmonies that make up the music you listen to.  The TFs are very, very helpful!!!
Take this class. It is awesome.
Not a bad way to learn about jazz. Daniel Henderson and Omar Thomas are enthusiastic about what they do, which made class a delight. Light workload.
Excellent, fantastic, superb across the board.  There are few classes as fun (and informative) as this one.  One of the best I've taken.
Professor Henderson is the man, and his lectures are always a good time.  Great class to expand your musical horizons and gain confidence in composition.
This class was extremely fun, and was a great introduction to jazz. If you're a jazz-head, stay away as you'll probably get bored. If you're a complete newbie to jazz like me but always wanted to explore it, this class is perfect for you.
This is a very good course for learning about jazz harmony. Don't be intimidated away from it if because it's very accessible and doable.
Daniel Henderson taught this course when I took it, and he was fantastic. A very positive presence, he brought a genuine passion to the material. The course is grounded in teaching broadly applicable jazz theory. The assignments are doable. All you really need in order to do this class is some musical background.
It's a great way to be exposed to more jazz, whether you know anything about it already or not. It is theory based, so you learn how jazz works, which is pretty sweet. Also, the professor and TFs are just such awesome people.
Daniel is an amazing teacher. If you like music, you should take this class. However, you're going to have to like all aspects of music in order to finish your final composition, which will stretch your boundaries and your ability to concentrate. You need to be patient and proactive at the same time, working hard but being inspired.
I heard the previous jazz harmony prof was amazing but this prof is amazing too. he's goofy and very approachable but gives clear, organized lectures. even if you're not really into jazz, you learn about some really cool harmonies and i think this course is useful for any musician. workload is totally doable--some tedious worksheets at the beginning but in the end you get to compose two jazz compositions (and in our year, we got them performed by professional musicians!)
If you know your way around the topic, this course is an excellent chance to have writing tunes be a part of your courseload. If you're new to the topic, the course starts at the very beginning and is very easy. So, it's good for both of those things. But if you know your stuff and want to significantly add to or change your understanding of things, this won't do that.It's very cool that they bring in good bands to play your pieces.
This is a really great course, especially if you're hoping to learn more about the details of what really goes on in jazz harmony. A little history is also covered, and the range of harmonic material spans blues to contemporary jazz. I've gotten a huge amount out of the class, and the different types of chords, progressions, and voicings have opened my harmonic vocabulary to tons of new areas.
Will give you a great grounding in jazz history as well as basic harmony.
Great fun.  Fantastic teaching staff.  Classes are fun and engaging.  You get exposed to a lot of great music.
It's a great way to increase one's understanding of a great American art.
This was a great course on Jazz Harmony. I learned a lot about a different area of music than I am used to, and I would strongly recommend it for classical and jazz musicians alike.
This is a good class and is pretty fun. It's definitely more of an all around class in jazz rather than just a composition class. Pretty easy although sometimes a bit scatterbrained. Have good piano skills coming in.
After the amount of materials covered have been reduced to a more digestible size, the course is well paced. Jazz is great music whose complexity and intellectual rigor needs to be more appreciated in addition to its coolness and atmosphericness. Repertoire exposure is also exhilarating for the interested and newly initiated.
If you want a good challenge and a very engaging class, take this. I really gained a great appreciation for jazz after taking this class.
If you love music and love jazz and love to be with others who do as well, take this class. You get out of this course whatever you put in. The time commitment really depends on your theoretical background and previous jazz experience and definitely varies from person to person.
Prepare to have fun but also prepare to do a lot of work.
If offered again in its current form, it will be a massive amount of material covered in too little time.  There is not enough time to get into depth with the material, and sections, while helpful, are limited.  Grading is tough, particularly on quizzes which are challenging (largely due to listening requirements).  We were expected to listen to and be able to recognize songs from a list of 120 for the final exam.  Something like 15 of them were actually referred to on the exam.  Make sure you know some theory and prepare to be beaten down by a massive amount of material crammed into schizophrenic lecture format.
A fantastic course - you will learn SO much about jazz, you'll be amazed!
this course is much more difficult if you have no music theory background and also very difficult if you don't know jazz
It is a lot of work, but if you are interested in learning the history and mechanics of jazz, and have a decent musical background, this is the best class you can take at Harvard.
The material presented is awesome and the professor presents it well, however there it was EXTREMELY rushed, to the point where he would fly by lectures so fast that I wouldn't understand anything at all. Then have to go through lecture on my own but that didn't amount to much because the professor wasn't there. In the future, PLEASE make this a full year course - jazz harmony cannot be learned in a semester for sure.
This was the first time the class was taught, but the course has a lot of potential to be something special if it is more structured and better managed in terms of time.
The class provides a great introduction to jazz music and jazz theory and harmony.  It covers a wide range of styles.
