If you like singing and are interested in classical music, take this course! The workload is light, you get to sing for a grade, and Andy Clark is extremely knowledgeable about the subject material. The class was slightly disorganized, but I would assume that will improve in future years.
What a great class! If you enjoy studying choral works and then performing them for class, you are in for a treat. The performance component of this course makes it memorable since it does not feel like "coursework" as you rehearse with other classmates to put on a fairly large-scale performance. If you sing in a choir, this class gives you the chance to get on the other side of the music and approach it from an academic perspective, something you may not be able to do in choir rehearsals.
The time and effort really pay off. This course, both the academic and performance component, were amazing. If you take this class, you probably love music. Once you're done with this course, you'll love it even more. You won't regret it. DO IT.
This course is unique in that it investigates a musical story  and an important one at that  rather than a genre. I can guarantee that this will broaden your appreciation for music and the extra-musical ramifications that pieces can have.
This class is a really fun elective!  I came in with only one friend in the class, but now I am really good friends with everyone.  Andy is really funny, the material is interesting, the music is enjoyable, and the class is great!  Take this class!
Take this class! Andy has so much information to share, and it's fascinating to look at such an important part of history through the lens of choral music. A relatively relaxed workload and wonderful weekly conversation, this course is a gem of the music department.
This is a great class for anyone interested in choral music, in American music generally, or in American culture at the time of WWII.  You get to listen to some really cool pieces, some really great pieces, and you really get a sense of the culture at this historical moment.
This is a wonderful, fun class about a fascinating topic, and it won't ever stress you out!
