NRT is really cool, even if you're not that into music theory. Once you get beyond the basic transformation, it's really fun.
The course starts off with a historical overview of the theory before exploring Riemannian and the many different branches of Neo-Riemannian concepts.  The workload will be heavy and some of the readings will be particularly challenging, but I've learned to work more and more efficiently as the semester progressed and the workload has been manageable.  The professor keeps the classes are organized, focused, and discussion-oriented.  By the end of the course you will have a pretty solid knowledge of where NRT came from, where it has been, and where it might be headed.
This is a well-taught grad seminar in Neo-Riemannian theory. If you're interested in the topic, and can understand the first few weeks of reading, you should probably take it, even if the course seems intimidating.
This is a super cool class about a brand new field of theory! Prof. Clark teaches it extremely well!
for anyone interested in this branch of music theory, this course provides a great introduction.  it balances the nineteenth-century historical texts very well as the current scholarship.
This course is a great introduction to neo-Riemannian theory. You'll read some of the fundamental texts of the field and get to explore your own interests with the final project. The concepts are confusing at times, but Professor Clark does a great job of clarifying confusing diagrams and transformations. Take it!
An opportunity to learn a relevant theoretical tool for musical analysis from an inspiring and riveting professor.
Don't be put off by the serious-sounding topic; Suzie's teaching really makes everything clear.
Neo-Riemannian theory isn't the One Theory To Rule Them All, but it provides another helpful set of tools for analyzing music. In this course it's presented extremely clearly.
Definitely take it! You'll be happy that you did.
Transformational theory in general and Neo-Riemannian theory in particular is one of the most exciting recent subfields of music theory. Professor Clark is
