PLEASE STUDY THE MUSIC. IT IS THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN PASS THIS COURSE.
Midterm and Final exam are really hard. Be prepared to identify each recording!!!
I cannot stress enough that you must be proactive about the material in this course! I felt well-prepared for the listening IDs on the midterm and final, but only because I downloaded the tracks onto my phone at the beginning of the semester. Reading the book is unnecessary until looking up potential vocab IDs before the midterm or final--I found that the rest of the information I read was interesting but not applicable in this course. I also found that hard-copy flash cards for listening IDs and vocab IDs helped me tremendously. Don't be afraid to sing in class, and enjoy the process of struggling through this and the camaraderie with your classmates that this produces!
Overall, I'm glad I took this class and I would recommend it with some reservations. It's difficult (it has a reputation) but I knew that going in so I didn't think it was a problem, but sometimes I was a little frustrated because it seemed like Professor Kelly was more concerned with upholding the class's reputation of being hard and making students feel stupid than he was with actually making sure we were learning the material. But then again that was only sometimes: other times Professor Kelly was great and it felt like he cared a lot. He's also genuinely enthusiastic about the material and he made me really appreciate the music. My only piece of advice is really not to underestimate the course, to give it its due attention and focus; if you do that you'll be fine.
This class is the best early music history class I could imagine. Tom Kelly does it right.
it is hard to keep up.  you should probably keep up with the listening as best you can cause it is really stressful to cram it in the night before.  You will learn the music somehow though if you want to pass.
Listen to the repertory throughout the semester; you don't need to be obsessive about it, but do be attentive to what you're listening to-- I found following in the score the best way to internalizing a piece (passive listening does so much less). This way, you won't be stressed during midterm and final cramming, and you'll actually enjoy the music. Speaking of enjoyment... try at all costs to identify something in every piece in the repertory that you find beautiful/ speaks to you/ intriguing/ worth discussing about. This makes the class so much more rewarding. There are many haunting moments in Renaissance vocal music; my personal favorite is Josquin's Kyrie from his "Missa Pangua Lingua." Also cherish TFK's teaching; he is one of those geniuses equally well-versed in performance practice/ interpretation as well as academic research; look forward to him playing Bach organ choralpreludes for you (he literally has twenty fingers)! There are also fun classes where he plays harpsichord while jamming with members of the class or a guest lutist.
START YOUR LISTENING EARLY. You can NOT cram for the midterm and final! If you start studying the pieces early, you'll do great, but it's impossible to learn them all in a short amount of time.
Put the listenings on your ipod and listen to them at the gym, on the bus, in your room
You have to work very hard in this class - probably the hardest music class I've ever taken. Be ready to work and listen to the repertoire constantly
FOR THE LOVE OF GOD IF YOU WANT TO LIVE START LISTENING TO THE REP NOWSeriously. DO NOT wait until the week before the exam. You will not learn all of it. Moreover, the instructor deliberately picks good recordings and music that he likes with the intention of sharing that joy with you. There is a lot of really lovely music and a lot of diversity in the rep list -don't squander it by force feeding it to yourself over a long period of time. Savor it. Love music slowly.
Nothing
This class is a fascinating introduction to the development of Western music. Whether as a composer, performer, or listener, it's worth knowing about how the music you hear now developed over many centuries and from a wide variety of influences. What was music like before polyphony? Before rhythm? Before there were notes on a page? And how did these influence later composers? And isn't it amazing how beautiful these pieces are 300 or 1000 years later?The course itself is relatively easy. Assignments are short and spaced out, and they force you to get in touch with the musical notation of each era. The exam, and especially the famous listening section, can seem daunting. But if you study (or cram) for this part, you really do walk away being able to hum the melodies and appreciate the breadth and beauty of the music. And lectures are engaging and short (compared to the 2-hour marathons of music theory courses; seriously, 2 hour lectures need to be banned). TFK is always looking for students with eager questions, and he's more available than most music professors to meet with you and discuss topics related to his class or not. All in all, highly recommended! And if you're reading this, then you probably have to take this, so enjoy!
This course is really rewarding. Be prepared to restrict your listening list for the semester to about 60 pieces -- you'll need to know them cold. The insights you gain into the development of music from the earliest Gregorian chant to Bach's cantatas are fascinating. And Prof. Kelly really knows what he's talking about.
This is an amazing course for people with a solid background in music.  You'll need to study a lot but it's worth it!
Great, great class. Kelly is a great simplifier; he provides information very important to performers about how phrases and pieces are built. Probably a lot of material to be on top of; TFs might make the class manageable if they're organized, or that burden could fall to you if they're not. (Ours were great.)
This was one of the most important classes I have taken at Harvard thus far. It's sad to think that the medieval and Renaissance musical repertoires are grossly underappreciated these days, even by seasoned musicians. So many people seem to believe that music of these eras is simple and boring, which is entirely incorrect. Please trust me when I say that you can learn more about complexity and the avant-garde in this course than in just about any other music class offered here. The music is truly amazing, and taking this course opens the door to a rich musical tradition that deserves as much focus as the tradition of the Tchaikovskys and Schuberts that get so much attention these days. As with most music classes, a lot of the course's success depends on your TF, but don't let that discourage you. Take this course!
This is a tough course, but Professor Kelly is amazing.  He makes it completely worth taking.  You'll get tons of personal attention, and the writing assignments are geared towards helping you figure out how to write about music well.  There's a ton of material in this course--be ready to have about 1000 years of music floating in your head by the time it ends.  Be warned that it's really not possible to cram for the listening portion of the exams.  If you can survive this course and still want more, you'll be fine taking any music class at Harvard.
This is a great class, both if you're interested in learning about music between 900 and 1750 and if you simply need to take it as a music requirement (which should mean you're interested in that anyway!). He course is known to be very intense, and there definitely is a lot of material to know in a very detailed way, but if you stay on top of the material and listen to it often as you're learning it, the class doesn't need to be too difficult. Just also make sure you have a clear understanding of what you're expected to know. If you put the effort in and are interested in the material, you're in for a great experience!
This is an amazing class, where you get to deepen your understanding of music history.  Don't be intimidated if you don't know anything about early music - most of us weren't familiar with the repertory of the course (with the exception of late Renaissance and Baroque music), but it's the ability to learn so much about music which you are unfamiliar that makes this class wonderful.
Good, but hard. TFK is demanding and is also a bit of an ass...
97a is great, and Professor Kelly's enthusiasm for the material really makes the course worth it. His lectures are brilliant, and he makes you love the music. The sections are also great. Be prepared to spend a significant amount of time listening to the pieces. The more you internalize them, the easier the midterm and final will be. That being said, those two tests, which are a significant amount of you grade, are challenging! Start preparing early and read the textbook as you go through the course. You learn so much about the pieces you study, and you will leave the class with a great appreciation for Western music & its roots.
TFK is very passionate about this material, and he does/says cutesy things like "do you know another piece by...?" when he wants you to recall a specific piece. You'd think it would get old, but strangely it doesn't and his humor grows on you. Also, please don't be afraid to sing! The material is so much more fun when you sing it in class. Don't be shy, or you won't enjoy it.
It is a pretty fascinating class--I would definitely recommend.  TFK takes a case study approach, so there is a focus on learning the repertoire chosen to represent the various stages of musical innovation (Chant, Organum and Discant, Renaissance, Ren. instrumental, Baroque).  I found this approach to be a good way to hear and recognize changes in styles.  It also serves to engage students well, as most who take this class have done significant work in music performance (as opposed to theory or music history).  Be prepared for class and always do some preparatory work before coming to class--whether that include textbook reading, listening, and/or score analysis. The subject is interesting, and score analysis will serve you well.  TFK is a dedicated and knowlegeable teacher.  Take advantage of him as a resource, since he has a wealth of knowledge about the music from the Medeival to Baroque time periods, and is personable and eager to share enthusiasm.  He has high expectations and is a proponent of hands-on learning!  (Or, voice-on learning, which was very fun.)  He emphasizes the listening selections, and the songs and pieces chosen (some exquisitely beautiful) made me love this time period and feel that I had truly absorbed the music into the realm of knowledge that I consciously carry around to new settings.  The material was very alive to me.  A fun extra curricular would be to make a small camerata or consort and perform the repertory in Mem church or somewhere.  Bonus: tfk plays harpsichord and organ, and will demonstrate.  He also asks students to play pieces from the repertory.There is a small emphasis placed on learning the textbook material (do it anyway) until RIGHT BEFORE THE MIDTERM AND FINAL! I wish that the key terms and essay lists could be handed out in the beginning of semesters so that in reading, we could continously mark down themes and make notes that were relevant.  This would give us a way to track the changes in styles and themes we perceive.  it would also save a lot of time when studying for the final.  It would also be a good way to make sure we do our reading.  A few guided reading questions would work as well.Most texts of songs related to christian subjects or courtly love or spring.Many witty innuendos and thinly veiled references that TFK WAS NOT SHY ABOUT BRINGING TO OUR ATTENTION.Work hard on the essays--I had to try my best to get A's.  Writing over the word limit and making intricate diagrams helped me score higher on essays.
It's a very useful class if you're a serious musician of any sort. Knowing this material is very important. Keep up. Do the listening and I think you get more out of the class when you come prepared (even if that means looking at the score/questions for 15 minutes just before class.)  The textbook is sometimes useful.
Download the listening selections to your iPod right after you discuss them in class. Listen to them all the time.
This course is an immense amount of work. Professor Kelly is a fantastic lecturer, and the music is wonderful, but it is a very time-consuming class.
This is a very interesting course which introduces the student to a vast realm of music with which most of us have little experience.  This well-organized course is headed by the great TFK, whose enthusiasm and passion permeates all aspects of the course.
Staying on top of the listening is key, since the repertoire forms the basis for the course's case-study approach. The selection is somewhat eclectic, but illuminates the historical trends TFK wants you to discover. Avoid this course if you don't like double-leading-tone cadences.
Always be pro-active in this course.
Very difficult
I think this is an absolutely fantastic class. That being said, it is a lot of work. You need to be diligent about listening to the repertoire and studying for the midterm and final as the semester goes on, so that you don't need to cram right before the exam. You will learn a ton of great repertoire from this time period and hopefully come to love it, like I did. Professor Kelly is a fantastic professor, but he definitely challenges you to think about the material and wants you to be come intimately familiar with it. I think anyone who remotely likes music or wants to be a well rounded musician should take this class. I am so happy that I did.
Music 97a is a fun course with very engaging lectures. A lot of the material isn't particularly interesting or memorable (unless you're really into early music), but it's presented well. The workload is light, although memorizing the repertoire for the exams is less than thrilling.
Practice the listening. Read the course book before class. Do what it says. Also, do the textbook reading; prevents last minute exam cramming and it should be worthwhile just from a knowledge standpoint. Do these things, work hard, pay attention, you should be fine. (I hope.)
This class is not easy.  That said, pretty much everyone is in the same boat.  As long as you do the listenings on time and get to know them as much as possible, you'll be fine.  For me, the listening identification sections of the midterm and final were the most stressful part of the course, and I wish I had listened to the recordings more carefully throughout the semester.  The transcriptions are pretty straightforward, and the essays can be really rewarding if you put in the time and thought.  Professor Kelly is enthusiastic, knowledgeable, funny, and overall a great teacher.
KNOW ALL THE MUSIC
I would like more history taught in the class.
Even if you don't like early music before taking this course, afterwards you will at least appreciate it and realize that there was a lot of interesting composing going on before 1700.
You get exposed to a lot of great and beautiful repertoire, the professor is bursting with energy, knowledge and humor, you develop your listening and analysis skills, and you get to learn some cool history about music and composers. But try to put in some time to prepare for each class, even if you don't feel it's required; and take notes about the context significance of each musical work. You'll be glad you've done those things when exams come around! Also, if you can, put the repertoire on your ipod/itunes and listen to it in your spare time; it'll help you get to know the pieces so you can enjoy them, recognize them and understand them better.
If you're thinking about a music concentration this is a great course to see whether you'll like what Harvard has to offer.
While at times during the semester, I was frustrated or felt lost, now, in retrospect, I did enjoy the class and I think I learned a lot. It is a good introduction to the music concentration (I think, though I haven't completed the concentration so can't really say).
This class is the way to go for anybody seriously interested in music history. Tom Kelly is the man.
I enjoyed the class overall. The repertory consists of some really awesome pieces, and this class really teaches you how think of music analytically. Note that the midterm and final are extremely difficult. You basically have to memorize about 100 pieces and be able to identify them by the recording. Also, sometimes the class feels a bit disorganized and some of the questions/prompts can be a bit vague. Great class overall though.
Tom Kelly is fantastic, and the music is incredibly beautiful.  It doesn't get much better than listening to Baroque opera for homework.
It's very useful to have taken Music 51 or know a good amount of theory for this class. Professor Kelly is a wonderful teacher, with really contagious enthusiasm for the material. The course is a good overview of music history from the Middle Ages to the Baroque, and it works best for everyone when people keep up with the assigned readings and repertoire. I would definitely recommend the course to anyone who wants to know where everything in today's music originated.
be prepared to listen to a crap load of medieval music, and be prepared for a tough class
A very hard class, not in workload but in grading. Also it requires too much previous knowledge of music theory and musicianship to be taken as an elective for a non-musician. For non-musicians I would recommend music 1a/b.
Thomas Kelly is the man!
This course had interesting material, but was really badly organized. The materials weren't even legible, there were a few different syllabi that were accurate at different times, page numbers didn't correspond, the textbook had nothing to do with the course (until the final exam, of course) and expectations were unclear for about the first five weeks. Also, historical musicology is a different way of writing about music than you're used to - it's not analytic like a paper for a theory class, nor descriptive like program notes. It's a very strange, hermetic kind of writing that doesn't allow you to reference anything outside of the piece at hand, and maybe anything that may have happened the day before or the day after. The music was great, and I'm glad I'm more familiar with the canon, but there was a lot of junk to have to deal with along the way.
This class is awesome. You definitely have to do a lot of work and listen to the music before class, but it's worth it, and you really get to own an enormous amount of music by the end. Two weeks before the midterm (and exam), make a playlist of all the music you need to know, write info about it (in the genre, album, and artist fields in itunes) and listen to ONLY that playlist until the exam. When a piece starts playing, see if you can guess its title, composer, date, and main points. It'll drive you insane, only listening to the same 45 pieces for two weeks, but by exam time you'll know the pieces by heart and you'll be ready to cite loads of musical examples for your essays.Also, Prof. Kelly is awesome. It's worth taking this class just to get to work with him.
Keep on top of the material.
Though there is a lot of listening (and I would recommend doing it on a regular basis), this class is fun and engaging if you're curious at all about how people and societies started thinking about and doing things with music before the Classical era. Professor Kelly is a baller and chooses cool music.
If you take this course, you will work extremely hard to learn a lot of stuff about a lot of music that you could have easily learned in a music history book of some sort. The course is administratively disorganized and you will not feel at all prepared for the exams with the way this course currently operates. The course material is still interesting, however, and Professor Kelly has some great insights. But you may have to do a lot of extra work to make sense of things.
