If you like Neo-Riemannian transformations, go for it.
This is an excellent higher-level theory class. Professor Rehding is a superb teacher, the class is not intensive in workload, and the takeaway is very good.  This theory class gets away from the by-the-book approach that introductory theory classes usually must instill, and deals more with the music, thus bridging the gap between theory and "real music" well.
I enjoyed the class, but ended up a tiny bit disappointed.  The beginning of the semester was very promising with constructing analytical tools to deal with the problems of 19the century harmony.  But after we'd assembled all these tools we never really focuses on how to use them to form analytical argument.  We just used them to observe things about the music.  I still feel like I learned a lot and am glad I took it though.
class wasn't very difficult but still engaging. clark is a fantastic and kind lecturer. the weekly analytic (short) papers got kind of tedious but are manageable. you cover a wide variety of schubert's pieces, which is rewarding.
Finally, a course with a definable purpose where I actually learned things.  The specificity of this course was a welcome change from many of the wandering, ill-conceived humanities classes at Harvard. Each lecture and assignment had a clear topic.  Professor Clark is excellent.  Everything she says has a point, a brilliant one at that.  This was the best course I have taken in the music department.
This class is an excellent opportunity to build upon the music theory learned in 150. It's a great introduction to various ways in which theorists analyze music (neo-Riemannian, Schenker, etc). You also get a lot more practice writing theoretical essays and analyzing pieces on your own. Professor Clark's lectures are incredibly organized and engaging, and you get a great deal of feedback on all of your work.
Prof Clark is great. How frustrating the class discussions are depends on the other people in your class, of course, but when a good discussion gets going, it's fun. And the music is great, of course. There's a focus on analytical writing, which I liked and appreciated, but might not be for everyone.
This class was great!  A must for any Schubert fan.  This class is a lot fo work (and a lot of Schubert) but it pushes you to think in new ways about the music.
Always be curious. You may not understand something in this course, but speak up. Never have I met a professor who can easily back up and explain the moist rudimentary knowledge and quickly catch up to the advanced students' level in seconds.
An excellent offering, anchored by Prof. Clark's inspired lectures and Bill's engaging sections. While I wish the course delved a bit more deeply into theoretical approaches, it was one of the best Harvard music classes I've taken.
