If you are a prospective composer, definitely take the class.  If you're planning on a career in musicology or performance, however, I wouldn't bother.
Everything depends on who the Professor is that year
Recorded readings are amazing opportunities to "workshop" your music with professional Boston-area musicians. Private lessons are awesome. You can tell Marta and Dr. B both have a knack for teaching composition. They are also nice about letting you pick your own genre/form/etc.. Overall, one of the best experiences in the music dept I've had. It's one of those gem courses where you just get all these amazing things out of it and total freedom in what kind of work you do!
This course is what you make of it. Aside from the main projects (composing music for an instrumentation), the work load is near to nothing. NOTE: This does not mean the courseload overall was light. Personally, I invest much time into my music. Consequently, this was the course I worked the most on this semester.
This is a very enjoyable and rewarding course, and Professor Beaudoin is great to work with.
Great class. Beaudoin is the man. A bit too open-ended almost at certain points, but amazing class.
You will get great feedbacks about your piece from your professor and TF, and also you can hear your pieces played by fabulous performers in Paine Hall, which was really amazing. Since it is a small class, students get along with each other really well to the extent where we had a bonding time outside of class.
I would tell future students to be prepared to invest a lot of intellectual energy in this course; the course is one that gives back what you put into it, and, if you have the drive, can allow you to find a kernel of your own sound as a composer.
It's good if you really want to be musically challenged.
Take a course with Professor Beaudoin at least once, no matter what it is! He is one of the best at this institution!
One of the best classes I have ever taken
Beaudoin is a talented teacher, and a warm, approachable professor. While the class doesn't offer extended opportunities to compose (composition assignments usually only stretch 2-3 weeks at a time), it is still well worth taking if you want to refine your compositional skills.
Professor Beaudoin runs a great class, but do not take it lightly! This course is a LOT of work, with wonderful reward. It really helped me grow as a composer and appreciator of music.
Philip Glass is overrated.  If you agree, take this course.  If you disagree, take this course.
Great course. It's hard to imagine how a course in composition should be structured or taught, but Professor Beaudoin does a great job of it. There is a good balance between time spent looking at scores, doing workshops of our own compositions, and exploring the chosen instrumental medium (in this case, the instruments of the string quartet). Professor Beaudoin offers great feedback on assignments and clearly spends a great deal of time with your work when he offers feedback. His responses tend to focus on your use of notation to convey musical meaning, which admittedly is one of the few aspects of composition that can be graded with some objectivity. And did I mention that a professional string quartet (the Chiara Quartet, my year) comes in to do readings of your works? If you have an interest in composition and already have a decent background for the college level, then I would definitely recommend this course!
Extremely flexible, creative, artistically open, and philosophical approach to musical composition. Highly recommended for those seeking an introduction to the abstract art as applied to string quartets.
This class is composed with tremendous thought and care. Beaudoin is an enthusiastic, brilliant thinker and teacher, and I highly recommend the class. The major composition projects of the class are small enough in dimension to focus close attention to notation, and Beaudoin allows great freedom in what you compose. Assignments and essays take time, but are always worth itmeticulously designed and thought through. Individual meetings with Beaudoin were always helpful; he looks at compositions without being blinded by any personal sense of what composition is or should be (he's very modest). If you feel ready to really work on and think about composition, I strongly urge that you take this classit will be worth your time.
Take it.
If you're eager to become a better composer, especially if you aren't part of a larger community of composers, take this class. You won't regret the insights you gain from having such good feedback on your pieces.
It's a great class. There's a heavy focus on contemporary music in the music we look at, but in terms of what we can compose, the assignments are both challenging and very free. It's a great place for a composer to explore their interests.
This class is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. It is a very fulfilling course if you put the time into thinking about the act of composition and where you stand as a composer. I highly recommend this class to juniors and seniors serious about composing music.
This class is hard. It could also be easy. Regardless, it is as rewarding as you make it. Beaudoin is also fantastic. You will learn a lot about music in general. Take this class.
An excellent opportunity to study composition at Harvard.
Professor Beaudoin is a great composition teacher, always available, and always with something to say that can improve you.  A really great opportunity.
This type of course (or at least individual study) is extremely useful to anyone interested in composition, whether professionally or otherwise. There's nothing quite like getting a piece played by a professional group to help you understand how to write better, and you can learn a huge amount just from the practice of writing several pieces for a certain group of instruments. Professor Beaudoin is also an incredible teacher and composition instructor, and I would recommend taking any opportunity to study with him. We all wrote two pieces for the Chiara String Quartet, and got recordings of both works, one of which was done in a professional studio. There were also several week-long exercises over the term that exercised various skills that are useful to composers, such as analyzing and learning from other composers' work, evaluating their work and conveying our thoughts to them in person, and doing short composition exercises.
if you like composing, TAKE IT.
This class is a great opportunity to not only learn the art of composition and the necessary though processes that arise from its study, but also to be able to work with and fully engage with the genre of the string quartet (or any other instrumental configuration used in future iterations of this class). All of this is achieved in an open, and encouraging environment fostered by Prof. Beaudoin's vast musical, artistic and philosophical breadth of knowledge.
The focus of this class is modern composition, which was a new experience for me. I found it hard to complete some of the composition assignments, because there are literally no restrictions on what you can write. I felt quite out of my comfort zone in this class, but I learned a ton about modern classical composition.
This is a great class to stretch and experiment with your compositional technique! It's a must for any composer on campus!
If you want to compose and have your work played by an amazing string quartet (Chiara String Quartet), take this class! It's interesting and a small size and a small time commitment but you learn a lot and get your work performed.
An absolutely wonderful class! I really recommend it! Thought-provoking, great assignments, great teacher!
This class is a great opportunity (for composers at any stage) to practice composing, get feedback from teachers and peers, have your music performed and probably recorded by professionals, and to learn about universal principles of composition and string writing by looking at (and listening to) great and diverse repertoire, guided by experienced and enthusiastic teaching staff in a friendly, personal environment. Professor Beaudoin is a great teacher - this is the second class I've taken with him, and he does not disappoint. He is enthusiastic about the material and obviously cares about teaching and about his students; his lectures are clear and well-prepared, and the course is very well-organized, with a number of useful, manageable assignments.
It's a fun class that encourages students to try new things in composition.  The emphasis seems to be on contemporary music.
The class is great and excellent introduction to string quartet composition! The open-endedness of the class offers a great opportunity to experiment with different styles and really helps you discover your own compositional style.
Fantastic class!
Awesome course - take it if you love music.
Nick Vines is engaging, hilarious, friendly and knowledgeable. In his class we were exposed to a bunch of interesting repertoire, and got to have interesting lectures and discussions about composition techniques as well as cultural/psychological movements in music history that influenced composers' work. This class introduced to me some techniques and ways of thinking about music that I will definitely use in my future composing.The emphasis seemed a little heavier listening and discussing music than on our own compositions (I don't know whether that's good or bad); although we did get to do a few compositions of our own, with fairly extensive feedback from the prof.Also, our final composition project was read and recorded by a string quartet, which is really cool!
Music 160 was very interesting and a nice forum to think about composition and new music, but class discussions often got unfocused with the result that many things could have been done more efficiently than they were, which may have allowed us to do more of what we had meant to do during the semester.
Beaudoin is incredible. Many weeks of the semester are spent in private lessons with Beaudoin instead of at lecture. In this way, Beaudoin has the chance to learn who you are, what you're thinking about, and to tailor his musical/compositional advice even more precisely to your intentions.
Awesome course.  I don't know how relevant this is since you won't have Beaudoin, but it was such a treat to be able to spend one-on-one time with him working on your compositions and discussing music/life in general.  The assignments were phenomenal, too; I had so much fun seeing my flute/percussion piece realized by the Iktus Duo.  As always with Beaudoin, he also exposed me to a lot of great music and expanded my repertoire.
Beaudoin is my hero. I was wary of taking a serious composition class, but 160r was a fabulous environment for me to build confidence. It's really a shame that Beaudoin will be leaving after this school year. I'm sure he'll continue to inspire students wherever he goes!
Beaudoin gives a good foundation in composition for folks just starting out, which is good for undergraduates. He shows you the ropes with his smaller assignments, and doesn't try to force down any particular aesthetic on you (although his area of knowledge is mainly the realm of classical/avant-garde Western music). I particularly enjoyed the more individualized attention I got in the course, which allowed me to explore big ideas which I would have otherwise not had the chance to do.
Take it if you want to work on your own work. It's such an efficient way of doing so. You can combine your love for music with an actual academic course, and you'll have the chance to get feedback from a great Professor and TF.
Wonderful seminar. What I appreciated most about Beaudoin was that he very much wanted each of us to develop as a composer in our own way. There was no musical indoctrination insisting what music composition should be. And you could tell he poured a lot into the course. He brought in two professional groups to workshop, perform and record our compositions. He also brought in some well-known guest artists, composers, and music producers, who all had a different perspective on composition and music in general. But honestly I found Beaudoin more interesting to listen to than all of them. He just gets it, and knows how to communicate it. I honestly feel like I learned more about music in the thirty minute one on one composition session with Beaudoin than in weeks of some other classes. Justin was also a phenomenal section leader. He introduced us to a lot of interesting music I had never heard, which gave me an appreciation for some of the more contemporary avante garde music which I previously hated. And he gave very constructive feedback on how to best notate our own compositions. Though I composed a lot of music before, this seminar gave me the confidence to actually call myself a composer. Unfortunately, Beaudoin will not be returning next year...I hope a similarly gifted educator will step up. They have big shoes to fill.
This class was fantastic!  It was very flexible and the workload was super manageable, but I felt like I really got a lot out of it and grew as a composer throughout the semester.  Professor Beaudoin is one of my very favorite professors, and Justin was a fantastic and very helpful TF!  Would recommend with no reservations.
Professor Beaudoin is a fantastic composition teacher, and the course format this year was perfect for advanced composers in particular, thanks to the opportunity to work on any project, including pieces you had started before, or need to start for a commission.  I very much hope this course is offered again with this particular structure, and we will  miss Professor Beaudoin greatly.
