Everyone who is interested in learning about the history of what we call "jazz" and wants a type of music to be a part of their life needs to take this course. Vijay is incredible. You will finish this class a better musician and a better artist. Stay for every second of his office hours that you can.
This course is the best course I have taken at Harvard so far. Professor Iyer is fantastic, the course material is fantastic, and it is great to build a community with people in the course. I am so happy I took this.
Dr. Iyer is brilliant. Don't miss an opportunity to study under him. Seriously.
If you care deeply about music, you must take Music 173r. Vijay is brilliant and eager to listen to what his students have to say (both verbally and musically). The class itself can't really be categorizedit's part-history, part-philosophy, part-masterclass. No matter your musical background, this is a class you will be glad you took for the rest of your life.
If you knew who Vijay Iyer was before coming to Harvard, you probably want to take this course simply for the opportunity to work with him. He will teach you so much simply about how to think about music and get you out of some of the "habits" that have been drilled in to us all as high school jazz musicians. If you don't have much experience with jazz or improvised music, this could still be a great course for you. The most important part is simply to have an open mind, but at the same time have confidence in your personal musical background and don't be afraid to share. This course will without a doubt cause you to reconsider many of your fundamental beliefs about music.
It's wonderful that Professor Iyer is now at Harvard. This class is something the music department sorely needed.
It seems silly to be writing one of these anonymous CUE blurbs for this class, because you're probably not going to come across this course unless you know about it already, in which case, you should absolutely take it, because to miss the opportunity would be a mistake. We are very lucky to have VIjay here. Take advantage of it!
Every school with serious (jazz) musicians should offer this course. Classes within the Harvard Music Department analyze music from a historical and academic perspective. This course also gives one the chance to look at music from one who creates music and critically reflects on their role as an artist. Professor Iyer fosters a sense of community, and it is so incredibly refreshing.
This isn't just a course for playing music.  It is a serious overhaul of beliefs (for many) about what it means to be an improviser and an artist, in relation to a tradition, a community, the human body... plenty of reading and thinking, as well as listening and playing.  A very special class.
Prof. Iyer structured the class so to first place African American music within a historical and cultural context, which raised personal questions about our relationship to the music. From that point, we were able to develop personal priorities as artists.  I highly recommend if you are interested in personal reflection as an artist.
Dudethe professor is Vijay Iyer. You'll learn about awesome new ways of thinking about improvisation and music. TAKE THIS CLASS!
I feel very fortunate to have had the opportunity to take this class before graduating. For me, this class made me cognizant of the possibilities for community organizing at Harvardalbeit, on a very small scalewithin the improvising musical community, and also across the boundaries of musical and extramusical approaches to artmaking. The regular critiques with Vijay weren't prescriptive or heavy-handed, but were instead conversations and discussions about the approaches taken by the artist and possibilities for expanding beyond or varying what he or she's already been exploring. Watching this process unfold in a series of engaging questions and reflective responses was eye-opening. I also enjoyed the readings and the brilliantly curated weekly listening/watching playlists.
This is a cool survey of African American improvised musics taught by the great Vijay Iyer! Be prepared to get deep into issues around culture, race, experience and music cognition as well as challenge yourself to be a better musician and human.
No doubt, it's an incredible opportunity to take a course with Vijay Iyer. His approach to music will open your eyes in ways you haven't imagined and it's awesome to have him performing and giving lectures around campus now that he's a faculty member.
This class is revolutionary. Vijay Iyer is an amazing professor, musician, and person and anyone should be glad of the opportunity to work with him in any capacity. This class also created a community of musicians at Harvard that care about the arts and working collaboratively on music. If you are a musician and want to meet other talented and motivated musicians and have the opportunity to have your thoughts and assumptions about music blown out of the water, take this class.
This is more of an academic analytic course than a music course. Don't expect to play much in class or get much personal feedback as a player. But the readings and listening playlists are really great. And of course Professor Iyer is a brilliant musician/academic/thinker who is worth getting to know. His philosophy on music is fascinating and hearing his insight is a treat.
A fantastic class.
Take this course if you want to challenge your musicianship, but do consider if you have an interest in creative music/ jazz because that is where the readings are skewed.
This is not a course so much as an experience, a life and mind-altering one.
If you are at all serious about music in the future, take this course. It may not seem applicable if you are from a different music background, but if you take this course seriously, it will be so important to your musical development.
This class is one of the few I've taken that truly combines theory and practice. It's an intellectually rich course, by all accounts as a result of Vijay's brilliance. Most of all, it's a great space (and one of the few at Harvard) that encourages musicians to collaborate actively and deliberately.
This course will change the way that you view music. I highly recommend this course for people who play music other than jazz. It completely opened up new possibilities for my own music-making and has sparked a new trajectory for me. I'm deeply grateful for this class.
