Music B was, by far, my most enjoyable class this semester. I recommend it, and Osnat, without reservation!
It's worth being upfront about what you want to achieve, and why.
This course is a requirement, so there is no point in trying to persuade anyone to take or not to take it.
That is a very good way to remember traditional techniques of composition.
You will get out of this course what you put into it.  It is impossible to go over a 2-4 year theory curriculum in 2 semesters in a detailed fashion.
The perfect opportunity to fill in gaps in your practical musical knowledge.
Don't be afraid! It's an excellent opportunity to refine your skills.
A wonderful and dedicated teacher!
Work hard so you can finish Music B in one semester!
A nice and relaxed meeting with Olaf, which is all about improving your basic music-theoretical skills, which is really important once you're a teaching assistent
This is moot because the course is required, but I would recommend it being taught the way it is currently taught, with Olaf Post, over other iterations of course that may have existed in the past.
While this course had a bad reputation in previous years, significant changes have clearly been made to make the course as useful and painless as remedial musicianship skills can be.
bring a lot of questions yourself so that you get the most out of the short course time (30mins per week only).
work hard and apply yourself with as much dedication and creativity as you do to your main area, and you will get an amazing amount of it.
Olaf Post was a terrific Music B instructor!
In its current format, the intention of the class isn't really all that clear.  I really like the idea of sharpening skills of musicianship, but this doesn't seem particularly well suited to do so as the course is presently designed.
It's easy to scoff at Music B, but it really is an amazing opportunity for free learning. If you're good with all the musicianship skills in the world, ask Osnat to teach you something new.
Helpful if you need a lot of work with your skills in analyzing western tonal music.
Music B is an opportunity to tend to your own musical skills and explore practical components, which do not necessarily feature in graduate music classes.
For composers is a bit of a waste of time
It's structured very nicely and Osnat is a great teacher.
A good way to beef up your theory knowledge for generals, especially in areas not commonly covered, like Renaissance music.
