Finding time to rehearse can be tough with a larger chamber group, and was the most difficult aspect of 187 for my group this semester. Otherwise, playing chamber music is a real pleasure! The approach of coaching this semester was helpful in terms of thinking a bit more intellectually about music.
This class is super awesome, especially to meet other musicians on campus! Absolutely take it as a fifth class, it's worth it. I wish Harvard offered more music classes like this.
Great course! Pick a piece that you really like so that you are motivated to push through the entire thing over the course of the term. Overall, wonderful experience-- Kris is a great coach.
Be prepared to devote a lot of time to practice and rehearsal outside the weekly coaching! This class is definitely worth taking, even ungraded/not for credit. Hengjin and Kris are especially excellent teachers.
Music 187 is an opportunity that you'll never get again in the future: free chamber coachings, an excuse to rehearse with your friends and a performance opportunity?  You should take it every semester if you can!
If you like chamber music, take the class - it's a great experience!
If you enjoy chamber music and would like to be placed in a group, go for it.
This class is not worth taking pass/fail if you have limited time constraints.
Heng-Jin was a great coach, and always provided helpful and constructive feedback.
This course is a really great opportunity to get coachings from absolutely amazing faculty and have some really awesome performance opportunities. However, if you don't get put into a great chamber group or your group just doesn't gel as well, then the course can become somewhat of a burden at times.
I actually wasn't accepted after rehearsal, but I emailed the instructors basically begging to be allowed to take it - and they let me in! It was one of the best things that has happened to me at Harvard.
A great opportunity to have a low-pressure environment to work on chamber music, meet new people, and have a lot of fun.
A great opportunity to be coached in chamber music for credit!
Heng-Jin is a wonderful coach and I was extremely fortunate to work with her for the past two semesters. She provides invaluable advice and is a wonderful person to be around!
Fun class for learning some cool chamber music
