KNOW THE SCORE
It's really about music.
If you can handle being pushed very hard, this course is great. I personally think everyone should experience this kind of rigor, and realize that it is rewarding and good. However, it is intense, and not everyone can handle Fed's style
take it! if you have a good background in classical music it will be even more rewarding
This class is incredible. Fed is a remarkable teacher, and you will learn an enormous amount about conducting from him. He is a better teacher for medium-experienced students, as he does not provide the thinking on why certain gestures must be the way they are.
This course is a great opportunity to engage in conducting, which is a highly challenging, bizarre and fascinating art form. Even if you don't improve as much as you would like to, this course will change your understanding of music for the better.
Be brave and have a sense of humor. This is an insanely hard art, and it requires months of looking ridiculous. We were lucky enough to have a class full of supportive, caring kids - so be ready to work really hard and support your classmates. Everyone looks silly at some point. It's part of the fun.
Very crucial course to any musician who wants to lead an ensemble. The time commitment isn't too high, but you can put as much time as you want into. Fed is amazing. You couldn't have a better professor for conducting. But expect to be frustrated when you find out everything you've been doing wrong. But! Expect to feel much more confident at the end of the year in your conducting ability.
If you are serious about learning to conduct, Fed's class offers a solid introduction to the various 'problems' encountered when conducting an ensemble, from interpreting Mozart's tempo markings to communicating an interpretation of Beethoven's symphonies. The course, as Fed will stress at the first class, does in no way teach you how to conductno one leaves the class a conductor, nor could any semester long class begin to teach one to conduct. For this reason, this class is only worth taking if you're truly serious about putting time in to begin to learn the craftand in this capacity, the class is very effective. Be warned that Fed's critiques may be brutal at times (though if you have a good sense of humor, you can often get through a tough class relatively unscathed), and that he expects intensive work outside of class (more than you will likely have to give).
Conducting is not easy, and you will feel very frustrated at times, particularly in the first few weeks. That being said, the course is immensely rewarding. If you learn to respect Fed's blunt criticism, you will grow immensely, both as a conductor, and as a musician.
I can't say enough good things about Fed. He's incredibly smart, an excellent musician, wise, and caring. The more time you spend around him, the better.
If you are very interested in conducting and becoming a conductor, take this course.  Otherwise, you will find yourself having an extraordinarily difficult time and it extremely demanding.
This class is going to be a ton of work. You have to be willing to get yelled at, feel embarrassed, work harder than you have in any other class, and ask lots of questions if you want to do well. That being said, it is one of the greatest classes you could possibly take. Fed is a musical genius. You will be exposed to a wide variety of music, you will learn how to approach a full score, you will learn the ins and outs of every musical period. Most importantly, Fed will expect you to be able to preform like you are Karajan. That can lead to a lot of pressure, but it also means you learn a ton. A once in a lifetime experience -- take it.
This is a great class, albeit quite demanding.  You'll learn a lot, although certainly not as much as Fed wants you to.  He's hinted that grading will be very tough, which is a little scary since we weren't told at any point how we were doing on a letter scale.  However, that shouldn't scare you if you care about conducting, because improving matters so much more.  It's difficult, but totally worth it.
This was a fantastic class. Fed is very demanding and the course is extremely challenging - the fundamental point of the class at times was to show that conducting is a very difficult art that needs all the same care and craft as an instrument - but he is in his element teaching conducting, and the result is extremely rewarding. The TF didn't really do anything besides film us while he looked at reddit in the back of class, and then send us the videos a week later, but that's neither here nor there, I suppose. If you have any interest in music directing on campus, you seriously need to consider adding this course to your workload while you are here, and to set aside a sizeable chunk of time for it.
Take it, and take it seriously.
I would only recommend this class to serious musicians with an interest in conducting. This is not a class for students with no musical background
This course is great but requires hard work and regular practice.  If you put a lot into it you can get a lot out, but it will be very painful for everyone involved if you try to coast through it.
Don't just take it for fun, but it IS enormously fun. Take it if you're willing to put in the work.
If you want to learn to conduct the hard but right way, absolutely take this class.
Definitely my favorite course so far. Something completely out of the ordinary, but a great way to hone your skill in the field of Conducting.
Fed is a rough teacher who tries to guide you to be as expressive and clear as you can be. Unfortunately, his methods are often demeaning and he's incredibly unclear about what he wants. If you spend a lot of time working on something, he'll often not praise you and start picking apart something else. It's very helpful, but I never left one of his classes with a sense of accomplishment and sometimes without much self-worth.
This class is a waste of time for those who are not serious about conducting, and will be extremely frustrating if attempted without the right level of preparedness.
Compels one to think about Beethoven critically and analytically, which is highly enriching.
This class can be very interesting if you want it to be... just be prepared every week and forget the mechanics of conducting and just focus on what you feel from the music and let it out in any way possible.  The result won't be perfect because of these mechanical issues, but it will be very convincing and you will learn most if you do this.
