This class is useful if you'd like to know a bit more about Renaissance polyphony. There's a heavy focus on Josquin (hey! nothing wrong with that), with some Lassus and Byrd. The workload is relatively light, and Professor Hasty has a tendency to stop using the syllabus about mid-way through the semester. The relaxed feel of the class was perhaps a good thing though, and kept the focus on the appreciation of some very beautiful, under-appreciated music.
A good course with great material, and chances to compose rather freely...however not very rigorous and very disorganized.
Take it if you're interested in the music.
This course is designed well and taught well so that you always felt comfortable with the subject matter at hand, yet at the same time was challenged to create music of a particular genre that is not always readily accessible in everyday life - namely 16th century polyphony.
It is a lot of work, but it is well organized and well-taught. Sections are a lot of fun, and the material is awesome!
only take it if you kinda like this sort of music.  if you hate josquin then you will probably hate this class.
This is a really great class that gets pretty deep into its material. Counterpoint is really an incredibly useful tool in music, and being comfortable working with it is an invaluable skill, especially for composers and theorists. Even if you don't anticipate wanting to write like Palestrina or Josquin (which is basically the point you get to over the course of the class), working with the counterpoint in a way that is fairly open as far as form and harmony even as it is restricted and somewhat simple contrapuntally (there weren't many exceptions to the rules in the 16th Century, though as long as the counterpoint had integrity, everything else could be pretty complex) is a really great experience and will teach you a lot. And if you are interested in Renaissance-era counterpoint, you should definitely take this.
Take this course if you are interested in hearing and describing Josquin and other assorted 16th-century composers and composing in a mixture of their styles. It does not emphasize the large number of rules that can be formulated for the Palestrina style and the resulting musical discipline that can be developed by following them precisely.
Despite what the course description says, 155 is essentially a course in model composition, and most of your effort will go into a set of composition exercises in a version of sixteenth-century style.  If you think you would enjoy this - I did - then it is an excellent class, but if you are more interested in theory than in composition, it may not be for you.
This is a truly great course on modal theory and counterpoint. As the class is small and the assignments somewhat open-ended, you have the opportunity to explore your own style while engaging with the style of the Renaissance. Learning both modal theory and how to write good Renaissance counterpoint helped with composition and analysis skills generally. Music 155 also covers aspects of texture, melody, imitation, musical-textual relationships, and the limitations of music theory that are not adequately honed or discussed in courses with a heavy emphasis on chordal analysis (specifically classes like Music 51a and Music 51b). Discussions of course material and criticism of compositions are enthusiastic and constructive, so if you really love music of the Renaissance, I highly recommend taking this course!
A fantastic way to do counterpoint, if you're looking to do that. And a great course if you're not even, too. This course builds your musicianship in a number of great ways. Good for composers, performers, singers, scholars, anything reallyit's great!
This course is great, if you put in the time, but be wary that much of the work will be unsupervised. A lot of the learning is individual, from reading a book, rather than from the professor/TF. I learned a lot and am, ultimately, really happy I took the course, but it was a lot more work than I expected.
Do the listenings, and stick to the book. Both seem like dull tasks that you can get by without doing, but neglecting these things will greatly reduce your ability to understand the idiom. Modal counterpoint requires a different approach to composition from other styles; readings and listenings help you to get inside of this. Just do it.
This course is not rigorous. If you are not self-driven and/or do not have a personal interest in the subject, the course will be a waste of time
